I would like to call the City Council meeting of February 7, 2017 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray, here. Marsh, here. Tinnin, here. Petty, here. Tinnin, here. Here. Plature, here. Wong, here. Mayor Jordan, here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God.
 indivisible with liberty and justice for all. All right, the first thing we'd like to do tonight is recognize Dr. Rob Wells and his journalism class, the U of A. Would you stand and be recognized tonight? Thank you all. As you can see by the crowd, you will probably have plenty to write about tomorrow. All right, also
 ozark uh ozark regional transit semi-monthly report is tonight would they like to come forward and give the report thank you mayor ladies and gentlemen of the council my name is jeff hatley hatley i'm the public information officer for ozark regional transit uh 2016 we had another record year third in a row
 We carried 319,060 passengers up from 317,448 in 2015, or about a 1% increase overall. In Fayetteville, that increase was 3%. The largest increase in ridership was from our paratransit and ADA demand response model, which is the minivans converted to...
 carry wheelchair routes or wheelchair bound people and it's a curb to curb scheduled service that increased nine percent in Fayetteville I'm sure you'll probably want to know about the fire. We had a major fire January 10th destroyed 20 of our buses which is about 80% of our fleet and
 But my boss, Joel Gardner, our executive director, got on the phone and email. Almost immediately, the fire happened about 1 o'clock in the morning, and he was sending out emails and making phone calls at 4 o'clock that same morning.
 and reached out to Arkansas Transit Association and Southwest Transit Association, both of which were a part, and started asking, do you have any spares, anything we can borrow for a little while, a long while, anything you've got? And people responded amazingly. We even received a bus from one of the churches down in Greenland, Arkansas.
 Razorback Transit just gave us two of their buses and they went to the trouble of actually taking Razorback Transit off of it and painting Ozark Regional Transit on there for us. There's another transit system in western Kentucky that donated a bus to us. We've got buses from Springfield, Missouri, Wichita, Kansas, Key West, Florida. Ozark Regional Transit looks diversified now. Very good.
 So we've got a little bit of everything out there, but we were only down as far as having limited or reduced service for 11 days. We did restore at least all the routes in some capacity after just four days, working days. So we are back, we are out there running
 using anything we beg borrowed and stolen from we're having a special board meeting this Thursday on site and everybody's welcome to attend where we're going to be having the board members vote on resolutions to actually acquire these buses for either long-term lease or permanent replacements and such force so with that I'll just
 open it up to any questions comments or concerns well thank you for the service you provide and uh and thank you for getting everything up and running it's such a vital part to this city and i want to thank you jeff for your efforts and whatever support you need from us i'm sure i can speak with the council and say we're certainly supportive of service and what you do in this city so i appreciate that any other questions or comments all right yes hi jeff hey
 The buses that you borrowed and people were so gracious to provide for our transit needs here, have you made any modifications other than painting the name of your organization on the side? No.
 Actually, the only paint was the Razorback Transit ones, and they just took the Razorback Transit off and painted Ozark Regional Transit. The other ones, we have a very large sticker on the front of it that says ORT, Ozark Regional Transit, and typically the route that it is. Are the windows on those new buses that are replacing your ones that were burned up, are they tinted? That's a good question. I'm not sure.
 Can you see into the bus? Like if I was standing on the side of the road and they drove by, could I see? Can I count the number of passengers in that bus? I would assume so. Okay. I can certainly lay eyes on it personally and find out for you. Okay. Sure. I was just curious. Thank you. All right. Any other questions? Well, thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you for all that you do. Thank you.
 All right, the next order of business we have tonight is Federal Natural Heritage Association. They have a check presentation, I believe, tonight. Yay. Yay. Hello again. I'm Jennifer Ogle. I'm with FNHA. As most of you know, and we have a large crowd tonight, so I'm really happy to say this,
 We're a local nonprofit organization, and we're dedicated to conserving natural areas in and around Fayetteville as the region continues to grow in population. This is important not only for us now, but also for generations to come.
 We've really enjoyed having a very strong partnership with you the city and you Mayor Jordan personally over these past many years That we've been working 14 years this year We share your commitment to conserving natural areas in Fayetteville while also encouraging development in the city and
 I'm here tonight because of our commitment to Mount Kessler, to Kessler Mountain officially. We agreed to raise $300,000 towards the purchase price of Kessler and also to help manage it into the future. We did this in part to show the amount of community support that exists for conserving natural areas such as this. And so I'm very happy to be here tonight again to present to you another check, this time in the amount of $60,000. Thank you all very much.
 Thank you all. Thank you very much. Yes, any comments from the council? No, that's what we got. Don't get too attached. Yeah, it's just made out to the wrong person. Oh, I see. I see. But Federal Natural Heritage Association has been a great partner for this city. We've worked together on multiple projects and they're just fantastic. So thank you all very, very, very much. Okay. Moving right along.
 We have the Kessler Mountain Regional Park Rotary Playground Project presentation presented by the Rotary Club president Harrison Pittman. Harrison, would you come forward? Good. I'm not here to complain about... Where did you come from? I guess he's gonna join me. I'm not here to complain about anything today. Like all of everybody else, I get all my news on Facebook.
 And this morning, I think everybody's aware that we read that once again Fayetteville, Arkansas, one of the best cities, rated as one of the best cities to live in. Yes. And I can't be more proud to be here tonight to help forward that as president of the Rotary Club of Fayetteville, as you know, Mayor, and others in this room know. By the way, if you're in Rotary, go ahead and stand up. You have to come up here anyway.
 We embarked on the largest fundraiser in our club's history, and we're approaching 100 years. So that's quite a feat to raise our part, $150,000 to build a playground, the Rotary Club of Fayetteville playground at the Mount Kester Regional Park. And we are so proud to be able to contribute to that. I can tell you that every person in our club, whether they know it or not, contributed and virtually everybody knows.
 But everyone contributed. This was an all hands on deck. We, as a club, we did a lot of activities over the last 14 to 16 months. And it was a quiet moment but a proud one when Connie Edmiston drove over by my office and I gave her two checks to finish off the $150,000 commitment. And we are here, Mayor, to present that to you tonight. And somewhere in here we have a large fake check. Well, all right.
 there's real money behind it if you're in the road will you please come up we made the mayor cry one time
 Next time I'm back, I'll be here to explain to you guys. Join the club. Thank you all very much. And as they're leaving, I've got to say that when they announced that we were going to try to raise $150,000, I had a little bit of fear in my heart that we wouldn't be able to do it. But Harrison led us, and we had many other wonderful Rotarians fighting very hard for that, and they came through. So congratulations. Thank you, Rotary Club. Okay. Okay.
 The next order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the January 17, 2017 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 16-65 and authorize the purchase of a Genie S45 telescopic boom lift from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company of Springdale in the amount of $64,710.96 for use at the Biosolids Management Site.
 Number three, a resolution to award bid number 16-66 and to authorize the purchase of an Elgin Crosswind Street Sweeper from Scruggs Equipment Company of Memphis, Tennessee in the amount of $202,265 for use by the Transportation Services Department.
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 16-67 to authorize a contract with Sweetshire Construction Incorporated in the amount of $158,422 for the construction of a bridge along Salem Road for the Clapper Creek Trail and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $7,921. Number five, a resolution to approve a one-year lease agreement with an option to renew for three additional one-year terms with Sanders Crest Incorporated.
 for office space at the airport terminal building in the amount of $780.16 per month for the first year. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 17-21 and to approve the construction contract with Franklin & Son, Inc. in Farmington, Arkansas
 for the airfield roof rehabilitation project, Drake Field, in the amount of $378,253 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $79,374. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,000 representing donation revenue from the Bank of Federal to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number eight, a resolution to approve a two-month extension...
 of Amendment Number 7 to the Contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, incorporated beginning January 1, 2017 and ending February 28, 2017, at a cost of $656,019.58 per month for operations, maintenance, and management services.
 Number nine, a resolution pursuant to the federal code of ordinances section 39.10 to authorize the mayor to pay in the amount of $26,759.34 to Davis, Clark, but for others and Taylor PLC for a water damage claim at 15 and 19 East Mountain Street.
 Number 10, a resolution pursuant to Federal Code of Ordinances Section 39.10 to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $13,903.57 to Daniel and Megan Kelsey as reimbursement for damage to their real and personal property in addition to payments previously made in the amount of $6,587.78 to ServPro.com.
 for water damage mitigation services and $350 to WFC, Inc. for bathroom repair work. Number 11, a resolution to approve a new capital project for continued construction of dredging facilities at Lake Sequoia and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $503,242 to fund the project.
 Number 12, a resolution to approve a 50-50 cost share agreement with Federal Rentals LLC for construction of a sewer main along a portion of South Street between South College Avenue and South Washington Avenue at a total estimated cost of $10,174.86.
 including a 20% project contingency. And number 13, a resolution to award bid number 17-22 into authorized contract with Blue Ribbon Lawns Incorporated in the amount of $169,810.24 for the installation of trees and shrubs within the medium of Ruble Road between West Persimmon Street and West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $15,000.00.
 i'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is red sarah so moved alan second we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda is red sondra would you please call the row right yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay
 All right. Under unfinished business, number one, a resolution to grant the appeal of Councilmember Adela Gray and to deny preliminary Pallad 16-5574 Mountain Vista subdivision because such development would create our compounded dangerous traffic condition in violation of 166.02 of the Unified Development Code.
 We'll start off with staff. Jeremy, do you have this one? Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor and members of the council. Just a reminder, this project is located off of 24th Street. It was about a month ago that the city council first considered this project. It is 54 acres within the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. It's accessed to Highway 71B by way of 24th Street, which also serves the Fayetteville Country Club and approximately 150 homes in this area.
 This project is a proposed 52 lot subdivision including preservation and the existing historic ASCU house. There are two access points that are proposed and this is the primary reason, really the only reason that was the item was appealed by the, from the Planning Commission's decision. The first access point that we've discussed primarily is to College, I'm sorry, is to 24th Street by way of the existing driveway.
 That currently is called askew Lane. It's a private drive and there is a second access point Also here to the southeast along College Drive, which eventually gets back to 24th Street as well by a variety of different streets the Planning Commission voted 5 to 3 in favor of the subdivision staff did recommended in favor of the project and
 um you all tabled this item about a month ago to allow for staff and the applicant to work through and encourage the applicant to explore some alternative connections primarily to 24th street to see if there were better sight distance stopping distance areas we have met with the applicant and project engineer and i would like for them to speak in a moment but i would also like for chris brown to kind of go through some of the conversations that we've had since that time
 and from the city engineer's perspective what this project provides in terms of safety i will say a couple of things that we we have noted in the discussions we all agree that a left turn lane into the development off of 24th street as we discussed yesterday at the city council tour should be provided and so that will be provided as part of the project plan uh
 This will not require any changes to 24th Street other than striping. We've measured that street and confirmed that it is wide enough to meet all of our standards for a turn lane to be developed as well as stacking distance. So we will provide that information and require that at the time of our construction plan review. And so with that, I'd like to ask Chris to go through some of the items that we've discussed since the last meeting and bring you all up to speed. Thank you.
 Thank You Jeremy just wanted to first go back and kind of go back to the history of the project starting at the Planning Commission this was presented to the Planning Commission and there was a discussion about
 Speeds on the street site distance at the existing of the proposed entrance for ask you At the time we didn't have actual traffic speed So we used the speed limit which is 25 miles per hour when looking at our site distance calculations at 25 miles per hour the required site distance is 155 feet the available site distance for the northbound direction is 180 feet so there was adequate site distance and
 and basically sight distance is the amount of space that you need in order to see an object in front of you step on the brake get stopped before you hit that object so that's that's the definition of sight distance so if you're driving the speed limit there's not an issue at the intersection at the planning commission there was a lot of discussion about well traffic doesn't actually go 25 miles per hour they go faster than that
 So we did note at the Planning Commission that if speeds were higher than about 30 miles per hour, then the site distance would not be adequate. So after the Planning Commission and before the last council meeting, we did collect traffic data, speed data, determined the speeds to be about just under 34 miles per hour. So about 9 miles per hour higher than the speed limit.
 At this operating speed, the required stopping sight distance is 234 feet. Therefore, the existing intersection does not meet sight distance requirements at the current operating speeds, which could be a safety hazard.
 reducing speeds on 24th Street by use of enforcement traffic calming or as we talked last time not a very elegant solution but installation of a stop sign in that northbound direction all of those things could mitigate this safety hazard at the council last time we committed to work with the developer to look at options for entrances further down the hill and I believe the council
 Looked at that situation out on site yesterday. We looked at two different options that are similar, kind of similar in location down near the curve, but kind of took a different route going up the hill. One of the options was approximately, created approximately 20% grade, which just really is unacceptable with double the fire department maximum of 10%.
 The other one is about 13% grade, which again is higher than the maximum of 10%, but there is a special approval that the fire marshal could approve, and I believe they may speak to that in a moment. The issues with that one, it's approximately, it takes about 40,000 cubic yards of fill material, which is a lot of trucks, and it impacts over two acres of trees on a very steep hillside. Okay.
 It also, the intersection kind of enters at an angle to go along the corridor or go along the contour of the land. That makes it a little more difficult for fire trucks to enter, so that was an issue as well. And then also, just simply the steepness of the road in that location makes it a potentially dangerous situation in inclement weather for all users at that intersection.
 So after looking at all those, really the bottom line is the alternate locations are much more expensive because of the amount of earthwork and other things that have to occur. They are more detrimental to the environment with all the trees that are lost and are really no safer than the currently proposed entrance, especially with some of the mitigation measures that we talked about.
 So going back to the existing location, which I want to reiterate, at 25 miles per hour, which is the speed limit, there's no sight distance issue, no safety issue. So measures to slow the traffic down to near that speed limit are needed to eliminate the sight distance concern.
 The for northbound traffic as Jeremy mentioned the turn lane on 24th Street is recommended Again, it can be done with simply striping no curb changes or anything are needed Finally and this is something that the city attorney brought up and I think is a good good consideration as a practical matter If we signed ask you as no left turn that would reduce the
 potential for t-bone accidents that would be occurring with traffic leaving the subdivision in a northbound direction and then traffic from ask you trying to turn back up towards the country club so those are just some recommendations and I'll answer any questions what questions do we have Chris Matthew yes thank you mayor um simple question what's the daily traffic count on on the road there
 It was taken over a three-day period, December 20th through December 22nd. So what's the count? Or the numbers, the amount of traffic. It looks like about the one full-day count that we had was just under 470 vehicles. Okay, thanks. Mayor, I do want to provide a caveat, and we discussed this at the tour last night, that the country club...
 is not in full swing, not in season currently. So we want to make sure that's clear. There's a lot more visitors to the country club area during the summer in particular. All right. Can I follow up on that? Yeah. Would you say that's reduced by a factor of 2 or 10 or? I have no opinion. I don't know. Okay. So our best guess is 500 in the offseason. That's what we know. That's the information we have, yes. Okay. John. John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Chris, you talked about mitigation possibilities, trying to lower the actual speed limit from down to closer with the mark speed limit is. Right. Have we done that in other areas of the city? Sure, you know, just a typical, again, not a very elegant solution and not one that's enjoyed by many drivers, but simple speed tables installed there would reduce the speeds.
 So any number of traffic calming elements are available for that kind of thing. We've seen these techniques employed in other areas of the city with some degree of success. Sure, absolutely. Would you say marginal success or would you say substantial success? When used appropriately and designed appropriately, they're very successful, yes. Okay. Okay.
 The second issue is putting a no left turn designation coming out from SQ onto 24th Street. Is there another exit proposed for that new division coming out the backside of the subdivision? Yes. So there would be a way for folks to get up to the top of the hill, essentially. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Yes.
 i believe would the applicant like to address this i believe would be the proper procedure here i'm jeff bates i'm the site civil engineer on the project
 I don't really know how much more I can add. I mean, we've worked back and forth with engineering and agree with them. I mean, to us the best solution is the stop sign and that would prevent any kind of accident at all. I hate to limit the residents in that subdivision to a no left turn because I would assume a lot of them would be, want to live up there so they can go to the country club. Other than that, the developer's been willing to work or do or add or pay for anything.
 pretty much the way it is or to make that intersection safer because the arrests that we've looked at are just not feasible I mean hundreds of thousands of dollars or they're too steep and don't meet city code do we have any questions for mr. Bates on this good all right all right let's open it up for some public comment now here's the here's the rules everybody gets one turn at the microphone and keep your remarks addressed to myself
 Don't engage the council member or anybody in the audience. Okay. Please give us your name and address, and let us begin. Mayor. Yes, Adela, I'm sorry. Thank you. I do have one constituent who would like to present a PowerPoint to us at this time, if that's okay. That'd be great. Okay. Do we need to vote? No.
 Technically, I think you're supposed to take a vote. Oh, okay. But you can, if there's no opposition, then we can be approved without opposition. Thank you. Do we need a vote? I mean, do we have to have to? How long is the PowerPoint? Well, yes. It'll be five minutes. I think that's what the limits are in our ordinance. Is everybody good? Yes. Now. I'll try to get through it quickly. Okay.
 so Mr mayor and members of the council ladies and gentlemen my name is Alex Miranoff I live at 159 29th Court on South Mountain and I I really hate to quibble with the city engineer on things like sight distance last time when I was here I presented
 short PowerPoint and I also sent you all a video camera, you know, live take of a drive-by over that rise that indicates that there really is not sufficient sight-stopping distance as one approaches ASCU even at the lower speed. But I'm not in a position to say that I'm not in a position
 to go head to head on this particular question. Particularly since at the meeting last week with the mayor and the city engineer, the city engineer clearly said that there was not sufficient sight-stopping distance. I took that to mean that there really wasn't on re-measurement. If that's not the case, okay, but it is a questionable issue as far as I'm concerned. Anyway, with ASCU being changed,
 from one family and lately a one person driveway, and do we have that? Yes. To the main entrance for a 50 household subdivision, which increases the size of our Hilltop community by about 30%. The prospect of accidents at that location increases literally several hundred fold.
 The ideal solution to this problem would have been to provide a separate access to Mountain Vista via 22nd Street, which would also give the entire hilltop a second way in and out, which we don't have. So we're not observing city code by where we are right now, but that is sadly a solution that appears to be out of reach at this time.
 because of expense and complexity of engineering that solution. But we feel that a more modest, permanent, and foolproof fix is possible, and that is the fix of moving that Mountain Vista entrance further downhill to the existing stretch of road.
 This affords, next slide, that movement would afford three times the stopping site distance. It divides the traffic stream to the hilltop much earlier in the game, avoiding congestion at that ASCU drive exit. The lower road is already a city right of way. The adjacent property can be obtained by swap, donation, or condemnation.
 of that approach, if properly done, is less than the grade on many of the existing roads in the subdivision right now. So the question of access by safety responders or the fire department is not nearly such a unique situation.
 It would require about 300 feet of road, part of which already exists, and initially the developer expressed willingness to do that if the city would cost share. What I'm going to show you now are the two views showing site stopping distance, both uphill and downhill, to the proposed entrance.
 Going downhill it looks like about 350 feet or more of sight-stopping distance going uphill if you measure very Conservatively which is to say along the road itself and not including over the curve You have more than 200 feet of sight-stopping distance and really it can be seen even from farther away because the entrance is clearly visible over the the curve and
 The next slide shows you the visibility from the proposed new drive, and you can see the view uphill toward Askew on the left and the downhill view on the right. The next slide is a bird's eye view of these site stopping distances as compared to the insufficient site stopping distance between 26th Circle and Askew Drive, which is the red arrow.
 Okay, next slide is a series of photos showing the proposed new entrance to Mountain Vista as compared to the Askew Drive entrance.
 In the top picture you see about 120 to 140 feet from the intersection with Country Club Drive. This road reaches its optimal height with respect to the bank on its right. The middle picture shows you that bank, which is some seven to eight feet above the current grade of the road. Beyond that point the ASCU property begins, and that's the narrow yellow band behind the fence line.
 and it is more moderately sloped area that lies along the northern side of the property. The bottom picture shows you the Askew Drive entrance, which has been cut through a bank of almost the same height into a property with nearly the same slope. So the question arises, if it can be done at the existing entrance, why can't it be done at the lower site? The next slide is a topographical map.
 Each contour line on this map represents a 20-foot increase in elevation. Where the contour lines are closest together, the terrain is steeper. Where they're farther apart, the slope is more even. The maroon spur coming off of Country Club Drive is the proposed new entrance, and the X to its right is where that entry road would meet the subdivision road shown on the developer's plaid. The next slide.
 This is a bird's eye view, close up of the same area, showing how the new approach might be cut into the subdivision while the existing ASCU entrance would be closed off. And finally, next slide. Here's our proposed solution superimposed on the plat submitted by the developer in blue.
 This approach would entail raising the slope of the lower entry road to reduce the depth of the cut into the bank at its right, and extending the new road between lots three and four to meet the new loop inside the subdivision. Closing Askew Drive and bringing it level with lot one would then offset the area taken up by the new road, such that there would be no loss of saleable property.
 We're not proposing this as the only workable way to put in a new road. A straight cut from Country Club Drive diagonally through the bank might work as well. A perpendicular cut somewhere between ASKU and the lower road might also be possible.
 The only option that we've heard about, and at that second hand, involves unnecessarily filling in the Grand Canyon that lies to the left of the lower road with cubic acres of road appropriate fill. This does not strike us as a good faith attempt to find a workable solution to this issue. There have been a number of objections thrown in our direction, none of which either advance the discussion or solve the problem.
 We've heard that the grade is too steep for emergency vehicles. There is a second entrance to this proposed addition, although the entire hilltop has only one point of entry and exit, which is accessible, and there are many streets on our hilltop with much steeper grades than the proposed new road could have.
 We've heard that the lower entrance would cost too much, only if a preposterously expensive solution is suggested, and I refer you back to the Grand Canyon solution of trying to fill in the gulch to the left of the existing road. The developer has an absolute right to build. It would seem that the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness should supersede anyone's right to build dangerously.
 While we're on this point, I'd like to remind everyone that the Planning Commission failed to protect public safety when it passed this proposal on the grounds that there was quote plenty of sight stopping distance between 26 Circle and Askew Drive. The city could be sued. We've heard that too. Lawsuits? We heard from the city attorney at the last Planning Commission meeting that even if the city were negligent in its approach to approving a development, it would still be immune from lawsuits. But apparently a developer can sue the city for not allowing him to build unsafely.
 There is either a contradiction or a huge irony here. The lower entrance could pose new hazards, not if you design it to be safe. We should increase the enforcement of speed limits. This is a, quote, solution that we heard at the Planning Commission in defense of what turns out to be a slipshot assessment of site stopping distance.
 In general, neighbors who spoke at the Planning Commission meetings were dismissed with threats of increased policing, as though this would solve an inherently unsafe situation. And stop signs. A stop sign at ASCII will solve the problem. This is a popular band-aid, but not a very effective one. If we can have the next slide.
 A stop sign is a poor quality solution. The key to a high quality solution is prevention. A stop sign in and of itself doesn't prevent anything. A high quality solution means that you do it right the first time. This has clearly not been the case so far and we can only hope that it will be going forward. Stop signs are not self-enforcing. They tell a driver what to do but have no power to make that happen. It distracts attention from the road
 When a driver is looking at a stop sign, he or she is not looking at the road ahead. They are frequently disregarded, ignored, people do rolling stops, and it's located at ASCU beyond the vertical and horizontal crest curves, which means that a small car or motorcycle that has been stopped at the stop sign may not be visible to an approaching driver.
 The taillights of a car stopped at this intersection may not be visible to approaching traffic. Arkansas state minimum for taillights is 20 inches above grade. And if the sight-stopping distance is not sufficient for this particular point in Country Club Drive, then it is possible that an approaching car would not see a stopped car at the stop sign. From the Journal of Safety Research,
 We find that 700,000 police reported motor vehicle crashes occur annually at stop signs. One third of these involve injuries and death. Stop sign violations accounted for about 70% of all crashes. Rear end collisions accounted for 12% of all crashes. And interestingly, drivers 65 and older were disproportionately found to be at fault in crashes at stop signs.
 The demographics of our community indicate that this could be a greater hazard than one would think at first. And if you would like more information on the impotence and dangers posed by stop signs, I would invite you to look up Death by Stop Sign, an article in Psychology Today from May of 2016.
 We've also heard rumblings that there are similar situations all around town that have been addressed with the token stop sign. And what makes us so special? Perhaps we're special because we have the ability to come together as a neighborhood and give voice to what is a general wrong. And to set a precedent for responsible hillside development, not just for us, but across the city. So, Jeremy?
 If we really want to prevent accidents, injuries and deaths at Askew Drive, shall we do it by designing a truly safe solution, that is by doing it right the first time, or shall we go with traffic control band-aids? The decision and the responsibility for that is up to you. Last slide. What do we want? With respect to Mountain Vista, we want you to grant Alderman Alderwoman Gray's appeal on our behalf and deny the Mountain Vista Platte as it's currently laid out.
 Send this project to the Ordinance Review Committee for a further study or return it to the Planning Commission with instructions to perform a thorough analysis of design changes that would ensure public safety. And then approve a plat that includes a safe main entrance including a left turn lane for uphill traffic. Longer term and citywide, we would want you to approve, not to approve any further hilltop or hillside development unless it provides for a second exit
 to a major artery and amend hillside ordinances to account for special hilltop hillside conditions that affect traffic safety as I said if we had a reasonable alternate access to this uh new subdivision the cost sharing between the developer and the city would be highly desirable um and in the longer run we would really benefit from hillside ordinance amendments that
 look at specific hillside conditions and don't treat them as, you know, according to the same standards as you use for flatland traffic conditions. I'm going to cede the floor to Rita Miller, who will talk to you about some petitions that we got that we presented to the city.
 Good evening. I'm Rita Miller, 2780 South College Drive, and I've been a resident of the Hilltop neighborhood since January of 1993. Consequently, I've seen some of the growth that has taken place, the changes in the road that were done back in the early 90s to improve access, and I'm well aware of what this development means for our neighborhood.
 Earlier, I believe today or maybe it was yesterday, Marie Mitchell, who is our neighborhood watch coordinator, but who's been working very hard on this, delivered to the city clerk, and I hope you all have by now, copies of the petition that was circulated throughout our neighborhood. The...
 And before I forget, let me thank each and every one of you who came up to our hilltop last night and walked around with us and actually eyeballed what we're talking about. And you saw some of the traffic. You saw all the folks on their phones. You saw the real world in which we live. And we're not being critical of people. When you're coming up the hill, it's...
 25 miles an hour which didn't used to be our speed limit y'all somebody has recently gone out there and reduced the speed limit from 3025 But that is it is normal I think if you all were looking at your speedometers going up the hill I bet it wasn't 25 and it probably wasn't 25 going down either Unless you were just sitting on your brakes and all of that was in a dry sunshiny day the position of putting a stop sign at the location that y'all are talking about is
 poses the additional problem of being on a down slope to the stop sign and therefore Maybe you can stop and maybe you can't But back to the petition those petitions we delivered to to the city Came to you from at last count 125 households not 125 people 125 of the households
 Our Nate in our neighborhood and we estimate the total number in the neighborhood to be about 150 Some of those are rental some of them aren't occupied right now I think you have to agree. This is significant community support and identification of the problem most of those petitions were signed by two people not all because not all homes are occupied by by two people and
 But you're looking at over 200 residents presumably voters in our neighborhood who have this strong feeling About what should be done again? We live there we drive that hill every day in the petition We asked you to take into account the safety issue at the driveway That's proposed to be turned into a main street. We ask you to deny any
 this application for a subdivision only in the interest of safety until some other solution can be worked out. We've made it abundantly clear, I think, to members of the council, the mayor, the city attorney, and most of all to the developer that we have no desire or interest in stopping him from developing the property that he bought. Many of us were there at the auction and saw him buy it.
 The attitudes that we've encountered in the neighborhood range from acceptance to the fact that things grow and change, to people who are very enthusiastic about this project. But the concern about the safety issue and as we approach that intersection is extensive throughout the neighborhood.
 We would be particularly concerned if anybody wanted to build a traffic calming table across the road at that location. Again, our concern isn't just getting down the hill, it's getting up the hill. I've always laughed when people say to me, oh, that's where you live, do you have any trouble getting down that hill? To which I say, no, getting down has never been an issue. Stopping at the bottom has been an issue, getting up has been an issue, but getting down itself has never been an issue.
 That's the first part of the petition. You heard extensively from Alex Marinoff about some of the details. You've been out there. You've seen it yourselves. I don't want to belabor all of the points with you. We do appreciate that everybody at least is recognizing the need for a left turn lane wherever the entrance is. But the reality is this neighborhood has and will continue to have only one way in and one way out.
 And I just heard somebody say that Fayetteville has once again been picked as one of the best cities in America. Well, if it's going to continue to be one of the best cities in America, we can't continue to build a neighborhood that has one road in and out. Just one road. We've been told that there's another, not counting Dr. Hayes' property that we're here about tonight, but that there's another 91 acres left.
 adjacent to the existing neighborhood that's coming on the market or is on the market and is ripe for development. We've also been told that the current state of the city ordinances do not permit you to deny or to take into consideration, I guess I should say, the fact that there's only one road if another developer comes to you with a 50-acre or 100-acre project and wants to add substantially to the homes and the traffic burden.
 This needs to be addressed, not just for our neighborhood and our hilltop, but for the entire area. We cannot continue to allow the expansion of these neighborhoods without providing adequate roads. And regardless of what happens with respect to the Mountain Vista subdivision and the appeal here today,
 I think it is a real mistake if we don't promptly address this issue. As I understand it from the way Mr. Williams has explained the right to build situation, if a developer comes in and gives you an application for 90 more units on that hilltop, without a change in the ordinances, if I understand you all correctly, that situation can't be addressed.
 As long as we can manage to get all the cars on the road, I guess it's not a safety issue. But it can be a safety issue. It's certainly a practical issue. It's a lifestyle issue. It's something that makes Fayetteville a good place to live, is not having to take two hours to go ten miles.
 And if you all don't get something in place soon, we're going to be right in the situation I'm concerned about and that we're all concerned about. And that was paragraph two of this petition. I would join with Mr. Marinoff in asking you all to send this to another committee. I understand the ordinance review committee might be the best place to look at it.
 It seems that a lot of things are coming out in dribs and drabs here as part of getting ready to understand all of this. I had inquired of the building department and got referred to the transportation department for the ordinances on road grades. And the one that was sent to me by the transportation department said that,
 said that the maximum grade for local roads was 15%, but variances were possible to account for terrain. Well, Mr. Brown a few minutes ago said that the maximum permitted was 10 degrees.
 I'm very confused about that. So with the information that we had, we thought that a 20% grade was a reasonable variance from a 15% maximum. And again, what is the grade on 24th Street? What are the grades going into the...
 The subdivision that was built up there a few years ago, the master subdivision, where Fairway Drive drops down, and then Double Eagle drops down from that. All of those things are existing grades, and yet I see fire trucks in the neighborhood. Somehow they get up there. So the notion that they can't get up there if you have a 20% grade is something I find astonishing, having seen them drive around the neighborhood. And so I think that this...
 has not really had an opportunity to really work out uh... the best solution for them for the mountain vista subdivision i know it in theory has two exits
 Only one of them, but there's only one road in and out those two exits all go to the same place and The only one that's really a concern is the one that's currently able to ask you drive It's that that's the driveway into the into the old ask you estate And I think to use that I think you all saw it to use that as the main entrance is a mistake but once it's done
 There's no way to undo it. If you permit this development to go forward as designed, using that, and it later turns out to be the problem that 125 households that live up there think it's going to be, it's too late to unring that bell. It's done. So while we appreciate...
 Everything that you've done we appreciate what the city's done We think that this needs more work because once it's done It's not getting undone. So I know I've belabored two points here with you We've covered both of them in our petition And again, I would ask you to send this to whatever appropriate committees are necessary to address both of these issues One of those issues is for our neighborhood, but the other one is for this entire town. Thank you. I
 Okay, who else would like to address us tonight on this? Hello. My name is Michael Landman and my wife and I live at 310 East Fairway Lane up on the hill. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you, those of you who visited our neighborhood yesterday. We really appreciate that. My wife and I signed the petition to which Rita Miller just referred. We are very concerned about safety. We are concerned about the current plat and the future growth on the hill, as she indicated.
 As Alex Mironov said, we support a second road in and out. Beyond the traffic issue I mentioned to the Planning Commission, I'm concerned about a fire. If that ingress and egress is somehow blocked by emergency vehicles or by trees, it's a wooded hillside, how do we get out? There's no walking trail. There is no other vehicle access. We also support the moving the entrance down the hill, as Alex described.
 It's safer. If these solutions are impossible, I want to say I'm grateful to hear that a left-turn lane is in the works. Although we've only had one snow day so far this year, and with global warming, who knows what we'll have in the future, I got stuck on that one snow day before Christmas in a truck and for two or three minutes with my family in the car, I couldn't move on that
 right about where this entrance is going to be. And there were cars coming down the hill, and I was concerned they were going to slide into me as I was stuck there. And this isn't the first time that has happened to me or my neighbors. It was just the most recent time. I've slid down the hill into the street. So even with the traffic we have, that road is a dangerous road. To add to it is of great concern to us.
 I was thankful today to hear that there'd be no left turn permitted from ASKU potentially. I think that's, well, it's not the most ideal of the solutions. I'm grateful that that's on the table. Just a few thoughts about the traffic count. December 20th through the 22nd was after the university and our schools have closed. So any teachers who live on the hill, any parents who drive students to and from school were not a part of the count. It might be significantly more.
 I have seen at the country club, we talked about the tournaments, that parking lot can overflow. It can move out into the street. There can be hundreds of vehicles and people playing golf. Part of playing golf is having a good time. There is a bar there. There is beer and wine available in coolers on the course. We don't expect people to suddenly stop drinking, but I'm concerned that when they do and they're coming down that hill, that will be another factor in creating accidents. It's the part of the life on the hill.
 I'm concerned about a speed table if it's icy and we're coming up the hill or down the hill That's another possibility for a wreck again from personal experience before I had my current truck I had a Honda I had to hit 30 miles an hour just to get up that hill as Rita said the speed limit was reduced in the last Four weeks to 25 miles an hour It makes it actually harder to just ascend. So that's an issue. We're struggling with. Thank you. That's all for today I appreciate your time. Thank you
 Okay, who else would like to address us? I'm Susie. Excuse me. I'm Suzanne Clark. I live at the 438 East Fairway Lane and
 And I count me as one of those who is very enthusiastic about this development. I think that Dr. Hayes has proposed a wonderful development. He is obviously local, has done fabulous developments in our city before, and I think this will be a fantastic addition for South Fayetteville. And South Fayetteville is in need of some really good development. So I'm very enthusiastic about this. But I also share the safety concerns.
 In an ideal world when we've got a stop sign in place and it's a pretty day and everybody's following the speed limit and all of that, there's not going to be a problem.
 But the comments you've heard about weather conditions, it's very, very real for all of us on the Hill. The grade for 24th, and I live, our house is on that corner of Fairway and Double Eagle, and that's so steep. When we have any kind of weather, we're trapped in our house. That's why we now have a Jeep Grand Cherokee, because my vehicle sure couldn't do anything on it.
 I've been stuck on that on 24th Street. My car has rolled backwards on 24th Street.
 If the weather is perfect and everybody's following the rules, it's not going to be a problem. But we deal with those problems when things are not ideal. So the idea of having an alternative where the city might cost share with Dr. Hayes because he did indicate he'd be willing to do that, and that's why I think we're asking that the city step forward and not do the bare minimum to try to achieve safety, but actually invest in South Fayetteville with regard to adding to safety
 that really what what we think will be the advantages of this project let's do it right the first time thank you thank you who else would like to address this I'm Ron Calloway I live at 2848 South Club Oak Drive I've been a resident on the hill now for 13 years I lived in two very progressive towns before I moved to Fayetteville this happened to me and my wife just last week we were going down the hill and a young man
 Came out of the ASKU lane. Of course, there's not a stop sign, but he's coming out of the driveway. And all I saw was that look on his face and those big eyes because he was not stopping. He was coming around. And we were able to, you know, get on our brakes. And, you know, and he stopped also. So we got through it. But my point to me is that in these other cities I live, they were very progressive cities. They were, you know, just doing a lot.
 But when I moved to Fayetteville, I really saw something even bigger, and I think it had to do with the citizens. They have a tremendous good attitude about not just wanting to grow, but they want to grow in a very positive way and really even above the bar. But I didn't see that in those other cities. There was a lot of bickering going on in council meetings and things like that.
 So really what I'm asking is, you know, is once again, this is not a safe situation. Let's make sure we do everything we can to look at all the options that are out there and make it as safe as possible. I know doing it just on Ashy Lane is the cheapest way to get by. I don't want to argue with that. I'm not an engineer. I work with engineers. But we've got to make sure that there's not a safer way to get this done. Thank you, and I hope you consider it. Thank you. All right.
 Who else would like to address us? Hi, my name is Diana Albert and I live at 492 East Fairway Lane. I'm the last house on the last street. And I come with a different perspective. I have young drivers. I have one that's 15, soon to be 16. I have an 18-year-old. I have a 24 and a 25-year-old who both went to the university and went up and down the hill. I make about eight trips a day, truly, up and down the hill, to and from for sports events.
 I am very concerned about where the entrance would come in. I'm thrilled that we're going to build up there because I love South Fayetteville, so I think that's fabulous. I just hope that you all take a serious look at where we come and go through that because I do think of my children who are driving as well as myself and my older children who come and visit. But I do appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Steve Clark, 438 East Fairway Lane, I appear here as an individual citizen tonight, so there will be no question about what my motivation is.
 the first thing I need to say is thank you for the members of the council the mayor the city attorney for coming to our Hill yesterday and taking a firsthand look I know you all couldn't be there and I understand that but five of you were there and that was most gracious of you to give your time five city council members the mayor the planning staff Jeremy was there everyone was there so thank you very very much
 Secondly, I think it's important to point out that the problems that have been identified with the hill, that the street's already too steep and other streets have been built in recent times and they're too steep, none of those problems are the fault of anybody sitting at that bench now, nor anybody in this room. Nobody made those decisions that are sitting here that I'm aware of. So those problems were inherited by all of us, and so we all have an inherited problem. But I think we have a chance by all of us proposing a solution.
 As you've heard others say, we believe development in South Fayetteville is overdue, and so we love this idea of further development. We believe that this development represents both the leadership and the guidance of the city as we try to expand our city and not just be described and divided by what's on the east side or what's on the west side or what's on the north side, and to recognize that the south side of our city...
 for many, many years was home to the industrial park, then home to the jails, and then home to the manufacturing. And nothing wrong with that. That's the way our city evolved and grew. When I came up here, the mayor's heard me say this many times. This was a sleepy little university town. And it's not that any longer.
 but it is not that any longer. We're asking you be a part of the solution for the problems that were created as we grew from a sleepy little university town to where we are today. Dr. Hayes has got a great project. He's correct to say that if this problem is to be that was created by others is to be rectified he ought to have some help in the expense. I was in this chamber about five or six weeks ago
 And I know this is a policy decision, and you are the policy makers. You as policy makers decided that you would cost share and support the expansion of a larger, or replacement of a larger water line on Church Street. Because it made sense, because it represented infill, because there were going to be eight or ten new townhouses built over there, and because it represented the growth and things that you would like to see.
 I submit to you this project represents infill. We've got 150 houses. We're soon going to have 200 houses, and we have 72 other acres for sale. That's infill. We're not mowing down trees. Most of the ground you saw is already vacant. Trees were mowed down long ago. The second part of that is that project on Church Street was worthy of $100,000 and a $23,000 contingency fund for just satisfying that goal of infill.
 This project has infill as a part of it, but it has safety as another part of it. The city attorney has opined, I believe absolutely correctly, that you cannot deny access to anyone. But as one of my neighbors said, when those 72 acres come to this property, there's only one ingress and egress. Only one. Now, on those properties, there are places where you probably can make additional avenues for ingress and egress, but they're not there today.
 And that developer doesn't have to do that. It's all a matter of cost. And so when we came before you before, we also said this is part of the great city we live in. It's part of the hillside development and the hilltop development. And that was read as it was started by the staff that that's what this is covered by. And we said we were concerned that the hilltop development and regulations, which are marvelous, don't address traffic. And traffic is a part of building anything.
 Now we may go to driverless cars and we may go to other things, but what we have to address and we're asking you to address today is crafting a solution, recognizing a problem that you didn't create and that we didn't create, recognizing a problem that has been overcome, but not by following city ordinances that none of you probably adopted, by just the bullishness of people to make something happen up there on the top of that hill.
 So we're very plainly asking just this. We don't think all the solutions have been outlined. I heard people yesterday say, I don't know what the answer is. I don't know. I mean, I can see there are issues, but I don't know.
 I don't want to delay construction. I don't want to delay any of those things, but I do want to delay them if we're meeting some of the lofty goals that you have set for our community that has made our community one of the top five in the nation. And one of that is infill, and we're doing it. One of that is safety, and we're doing it. One side is hilltop designations and management of hilltops, and we're doing it. And the idea here that this should be a project worthy of your support financially and otherwise.
 I know some called me and said, well, you're gonna lose all that tax revenue. If this project doesn't go through, let's be really realistic. That's not a big sum of money. That money goes to the school mainly for real estate taxes. That mainly go to the city. There's some money there, but it's not, we're not talking about millions of dollars. We're talking about tens of thousands and perhaps six figure dollars, but not much. So we come to you as trying to be rational, prepared and offering solutions.
 to a complex solution, to a complex problem. We're passionate, you can tell, you've heard all the speakers. I'm passionate about this. It's where we live, it's our house. We heard someone say, well, we have hills all over Fayetteville and getting up and down the hill. It's just a part of the living in Fayetteville. There's some truth to that. It's not absolute. There's some flat parts in Fayetteville. But not many places in Fayetteville have only one way in and one way out.
 There are a few, but most others you can figure out the other streets you can drive around until you eventually get there. On ours, you either go up that hill or you don't go at all. You either go down that hill or you don't go at all. And I've tried walking it, and I can, but it's not fun. So tonight we just ask you to join with us.
 and trying to craft a solution. And we believe that solution will either be crafted if this is denied or if it's sent to ordinance review, because good, calm, rational heads will come together, and it will be resolved if you decide that this is a project like the one you approved five or six weeks ago that says the cost share part of the city is okay because we're furthering the goals of our city. Thank you very much. Thank you, Steve.
 All right, who else would like to address us? Good evening. I'm Craig Thompson from 227 West 29th Court in the subdivision we're talking about. I just wanted to mention that the speed limit was changed on the uphill slope from 30 to 25. I haven't noticed that people have slowed down on that uphill slope. And if the average speed was 34 or so going up or down,
 And we have people going faster and slower, and people are trying perhaps to try to moderate that. But that's a lot of people perhaps going a little too fast up a hill on a curve. So we have a hill and a curve. Now if we were to put a speed bump somewhere up on that hill and curve right where it's
 It seems like we'll get a Dukes of Hazzard situation where people coming down will hit that speed bump at 30 miles an hour and go flying through the air. And it will cause death or injury or it'll be a big problem.
 If we put a stop sign at that same place, people will have to stop, even a speed bump, if they see it. They'll have to slow down to 5 miles an hour or 10 to not harm their car or themselves or cause other kinds of accidents on a hill and on a curve. So a stop sign will cause them to stop, hopefully, if they see it in time, because there's not a lot of sight distance to see the stop sign.
 There's a lot of people that go up and down that so on the quietest day probably of our year We had 470 people so if we add 30 because that's the number of new houses That might be 600 people if we added an event up on the hill that might be 900 people Conservatively, so that's probably double what was measured by the city on our quiet day That's a lot of people
 on a hill that has an entrance where it's kind of wide open as you go up and wide open as you go down, and there's a natural inclination as measured by the natural speed that people go, which is higher than the posted and recently posted speed. So it doesn't seem like the solution that
 is the Band-Aid solution that was mentioned earlier is the best solution. It didn't seem like the Grand Canyon solution, which seems like a red herring solution, is the best. But it does seem like there might be an intermediate solution, and so I think that would require some further study. So I would request that you request such a further study. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us on this? Hi there. My name is Beth Moore. I live at 11 East 28th Circle. And I represent the other side of demographics that live up in the hill. Very small demographic, but still. We talk about inheriting the roads, the city just in general. And my partner Katie and I, we don't have kids yet. But from what I understand, you're very protective of children, right? And we're planning on having children.
 And for me, I think from a safety standpoint, we're inheriting this for the long run, longer than some of my peers and neighbors here in the neighborhood. And I think it's an investment that in the end, it's not an if we need a second entrance, it's when. And you have a developer who's willing to split some of the cost with it. And so from my understanding, and I work for one of the largest retailers in the world, when you've got someone that's gonna help split
 split that cost and help out your budget line, I think it's the opportunity to take advantage of that. And so from a younger generation standpoint, I ask that you look a little bit more futuristically out into the near future and see the development that is happening and growing in Fayetteville and really take a look at
 not if we need a second entrance, but when it's gonna happen and how we're gonna fund that. Thank you for the platform. I appreciate the learning experience too. I've never attended these meetings before because I haven't cared. I'm younger, you know, and this is,
 one of our first houses. But, you know, as it's important, it's it's something that I've been very educated on and understanding how these things work. And I absolutely appreciate the platform and the opportunity to speak in front of you also. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, what would you all like to do? Hang on. Let me get this.
 All right. Matthew. Matthew Dixon, Thank you, Mayor. Just another technical question for one of our staff. Is a SKU drive, is that currently a street or a driveway? It's currently a driveway. Thank you. Okay. Del. Del Valle, Mayor, I would like to make the motion that we send this item to the Ordinance Review Committee. Okay. Sarah.
 I had a question for staff and was wondering about Hang on just a minute. I have a motion on the floor. Is there a second to that motion? Can I ask the motioner, does that include a tabling of this? Yes, yes. A tabling until we can meet and make that and make a recommendation. Okay, so Adela, I mean
 Well, okay. I guess you can make it anyway you want to. You can make it just a tabling of it and then with a recommendation to go to ordinance review. I'm not telling you how to make your motion, but I see, do we have a second on that? Yes, Al? I'll second that. Okay, cool. All right. Well, let's discuss that a while. We have a motion to second to table for... Second.
 However long and go to ordinance review correct? I mean, how long would you want to table it? I was thinking in terms of two weeks hoping that you know I haven't visited with the the chairman and of course, but I was hoping we could do it within two weeks, okay Mr. Bates, I'll go ahead and let you I just wanted to add one thing before y'all vote. I
 we've looked at this with the city engineers a lot and you know we have studied it and what I think I'm hearing is they're really wanting another way off the mountain but there's no other way off the mountain through this subdivision because the terrain will not allow it it is vertical in some places and over 20 in most places so to me their biggest issue is how else can we get off this mountain and it's not through this subdivision because there's no way we've looked all the way around
 And I don't see how moving the driveway down 150 feet is not going to be another way off the mountain. It's just moving the driveway down. That's all I'd like to throw out. All right. Thank you.
 Mark? Mark Hebertin I have a question for the developer. We're talking about a cost share, but I don't see anything in a packet or anything in front of me that specifies a cost share. So I don't know that I can assume that. Joe Mohorovic Yes, I agree. Mark Hebertin Do you have a question on the cost sharing? I don't have any approval from the mayor or the city for cost sharing. The neighbors up there have suggested that they might be able to get some from the
 City and I don't I don't know how that's done and I'd like to see what the mayor has to say about it Thank you
 I mean, I really don't know what the cost here would be because I really don't know what the cost of that road would be going, that Mr. Marinoff was talking about. I just don't know. We haven't looked at it, Chris. I've heard $250,000, $300,000. Yeah, but, J.B., I don't have nothing solid on that, so I don't know. Well, put yourself in my position as a developer. We have this all approved, and the engineers from the city and my engineers have looked at it, and I've met with the inhabitants of the city.
 Country Club area a couple of times and it was fairly friendly, but how would you like to be in my position? And I've tried to do the best developments As you're familiar with several I've done. Yeah, I think it's gonna be a fun project if we can get everybody happy. I Agree, I think you've got a good project personally Okay, I think I
 we don't know what the cost of a road would be to be honest with you and i don't know we would something would have to be designed and i don't know how long that's going to take so i don't know about committing to cost sharing a road or building a rover i don't even know what the costs are right now which i don't know how long that's going to hold up this development until we thrash around and decide what it's going to cost what kind of development or what kind of design we're going to have i mean
 Mr. Hayes really, according to the city attorney's memo, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, really he's billing according to the ordinance that we have on the books, which is somewhat billed by right here. It is a bill by right. They have an access. They do have a property interest and access to 24th Street. Now, one thing I'd like our city engineer to discuss is that we heard...
 from the first presenter that there was a different location he was looking at for the street. So, Chris, could you, did you look at that location also and would that be a much less expensive design? Would that work?
 They're all very similar. We looked at something not exactly in that location, but just down the hill, the terrain adjacent to the road is very similar. So the steepness of the street would be, I believe, in that 15 to 20 percent range that is at the very top of the realm of possibility and acceptability. Okay.
 So I think, I mean, there are an infinite number of spots we could look at this. All of them, in my opinion, have an issue as far as the safety as compared to this existing location.
 Do you think that this current driveway location is the most safe of the ones that you've looked at? I think if, again, the only issue with this driveway location is that one site distance. So I believe that there are mitigation measures that could be taken, again, through traffic calming or other elements that could make this location be really the best location, the existing driveway be the best location. Yes.
 follow-up question. I'm sorry. Yes. Sarah, I believe you are on the. Yes. I see that there will be a trail dedicated, trail easement dedicated connecting to 22nd Street. Okay.
 is have we looked at that route as a potential connection for a second entrance that yeah I think there is an easement dedicated there it's the existing terrain is between 15 and 20 percent there as well I think about 17 or 18 percent so how are we going to make that work for the trail well it wouldn't meet any AASHTO design standards or anything like that it would be it could be built but
 um we'd have to do switchbacks or something like that to really make it meet ashto standards so yes the easement is there but the practicality of building that it's a challenge thank you mr mayor can i ask jeremy a question sure jeremy you heard about the other acreage that apparently is for sale on the far side of the mountain i guess
 Are you aware of any of that and what the terrain is like that between the road to the east, which I guess would be Willoughby Road or would be City Lake Road, Morningside, extension of Morningside Drive? Is there a way to get down off the mountain on the east side of the mountain instead of looking for another way on the west side, which is the only access now?
 i'm not aware of the i think it's the 91 acres that that someone mentioned um there are a number of private properties that are larger lots on particularly on the east side facing that that state highway here on the screen here this is uh there's there's several stub outs to the east so there's a stub out here of 29th street quite steep from what we've looked at um
 There is an old drive and potentially an easement that traverses this area. There's also a stub out here. I can't recall what street name this is, but there's a stub out here, and there's also a potential stub out here to the south.
 Eventually one could probably make their way down. The topography is relatively similar. Surrounding, obviously the golf course here is located on the top, and it's surrounded by slopes that get down to the streets that surround at the base of the hill. So is it possible? Yes. We haven't looked at it in great detail to determine whether that would be possible or not. Thank you.
 Mark, I believe you're. I'd like to refer discussion on the motion that we're considering in front of us that's on the floor, and that is sending this ordinance review. At this point, I'm unsure of what ordinance we're looking at to review. Okay. Okay.
 I would say that normally if a planning department, large-scale approval, large-scale development or preliminary plat is wanting to be looked at again, it normally goes back to the Planning Commission. So planning staff can look at it. The Planning Commission can look at it who normally decides all of these things in the first place rather than the City Council. So that is what's happened in the past. I think you all have tremendous power, and so if you want to put it in ordinance review, even though this is a resolution and not an ordinance,
 You have that right to do that. So I think that the City Council has a lot of discretion. But everything I've seen in the past, it gets referred back to the Planning Commission. Okay. John? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We have a city engineer. This is the quandary I'm in right now. We have a city engineer who has professional credentials who has given us his opinion twice tonight saying that the ASCU drive is probably the safest of all the options.
 That is his opinion. He stated it twice. You cannot deny that. I realize the neighbors have a different opinion, but none of the neighbors got up and claimed to be engineers. None of them gave me their engineering credentials. I have to go with what Chris Brown is telling us. He's who we hired. He's who we trust on these things. As far as an ordinance review of a resolution, that is unusual. I think we have to recognize that money has time value.
 Dr. Hayes has an investment in this property, and for every day we delay it, he's paying interest on that loan or that opportunity cost of his own money. Delay is not good for the developer. We have to take that into account. I don't see that we're going to gain a lot by ordinance review. We're not looking at the constitutionality of it or this, that, or the other. We're just looking at different options. Our city engineer has already told us of the options he's looked at. And of course, there are infinite places we could place the road.
 But this is probably the safest one. If you really are interested in safety, it's probably going to be ask you to drive, according to the professional we have on our staff. That has to have sway in our decision. We've talked about mitigation techniques. These are techniques that I experience every day on my drive from Razorback Stadium to downtown. I find the criticism of a stop sign not credible. Sure, some people will run a stop sign,
 But by far the majority of people will stop or at least slow down. And that's after all what we're trying to get people to do on the Hill, is slow down. The argument that we only have one way in and one way out, if we can build a second way, fine. But remember you bought your homes with those conditions. Why are you changing your mind about that now? You have the largest cul-de-sac in Fayetteville. Don't you like that?
 You don't have through traffic coming through your neighborhood. Most people would like a cul-de-sac. And now we're talking about the dangers of it. Well, those dangers existed when you purchased your home. We call that you're assuming risk. All of us have risk. Every time I get in my car, I'm assuming a risk. There is a danger there. I'd be safer if I stayed at home, but it's not economically feasible to do that.
 So, please, let's not delay Dr. Hayes any more than we have to. If it has to go to ordinance review, so be it. But I don't see anything that we're going to gain from an ordinance review other than two weeks of delay. So I would encourage us to move ahead and let's decide the issue. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. All right. Chester. I'm struggling a little bit with the idea of going to ordinance review as well. I think...
 I would like to ask Adela, just because it was your motion to send it to ordinance review, what you would hope to gain from an ordinance review of this.
 Well, what I would hope to gain is having some more time to look at more options. And I know it's unusual to send a resolution to ordinance review. I'm well aware of that, although I think that one of the things that we've heard from so many of our constituents is the city needs to be concerned about safety.
 And I guess that's the one thing that I would ask the attorney. Is there anything in any of our ordinances regarding building developments that says anything about being required to build for safety? I think that many of our constituents think that is true.
 And so I need your opinion on that, if not. Well, as you know, this whole appeal is based upon safety. They have certainly complied with all of the normal requirements. The planning department has stated that they have. So that the only issue that this planning, that this preliminary plan could be
 denied is if it created a dangerous traffic condition created or Compounded the Drake a dangerous traffic condition and so that is safety Obviously you must weigh that also upon there's got to be you know from some evidence of
 that evidence not just numbers of persons, but actual pretty strong evidence, especially if you're thinking about not just referring this for further look at something, but if you're thinking about denying this, because they do have the property owner has access
 to 24th Street. Now we can try to make it in as safe a location as possible, but our city engineer has said that is in fact Askew Drive.
 And beyond that, we cannot turn down that or we cannot cancel or take away their access easement without paying the damages that that removal of that access easement would cause his landowner. In this particular case, there's 50-something acres back there that he needs his access for. So that could be very substantial.
 And I've said that, I think, from the start. I've also said, I think, that there was a question about whether I said that the city can't be sued for negligence. Well, now, that's true also, but that's a different issue. That is, let's say we make a mistake, we misdesign something or something, and somebody says, well, our design was negligently done, so that caused a traffic accident. We can't be sued for that, but we could be sued for taking away somebody's property interest.
 That's the difference. And the other difference is, of course, is that in this particular case, that suit for the property interest could be many millions of dollars, I'm afraid.
 Thank you. You know, my reason for bringing this is just simply because there are so many folks who are strong constituents of our city who've asked me to bring it to a place where they can have some more discussion of it. And that's my reason for bringing it. Okay. I...
 I still just don't know what we're going to accomplish by going to ordinance review. And if enough of you vote to send it to ordinance review, then I guess we'll have an ordinance review meeting, but I really don't see anything coming out of it.
 be supportive to send it back to planning but I just have a feeling planning is going to look at staff and say what's your recommendation what do you recommend and we'll hear the same thing from staff and um I I don't know that that we're doing anything here but preventing Dr Hayes from doing something that he followed every rule that we have um and and if we're going to change the ordinance for the Hillside ordinance later for traffic and other considerations then then maybe that's a
 bigger conversation for a bigger problem that I would maybe support. But for this particular situation, I don't I wouldn't be in favor of that. So that's I just don't know what we're going to get out of ordinance review if we send it there. Chair Greg Musil All right. Alan. Alan Williams Well, I seconded your motion, Adela, for a couple reasons. One, I think that there should be a solution that we can find.
 In looking at this, we had some new information presented tonight on the speed change. It was actually 34 miles an hour instead of 25 miles per hour, which is what they based the data on.
 I think that's something that needs a little bit more discussion. And two, we've heard about the cost share agreement. And I too had initially thought maybe the planning commission would be the right body to look at this, but only the council can allocate or reallocate funds from the budget to assess changes in street conditions. So I thought if the ordinance review committee looks at this, which is a four-person member
 or committee of the council, then we have a little bit of insight to go on for the next meeting as to whether or not that's feasible or needed. JP, did you have something else you wanted to say? Just come on up here where we can get you on to Mike. There are several people in the present subdivision have made a desire to purchase lots and be in this subdivision, and we've met with the engineers with the city, and we've met with the
 the people that live in the Country Club area, and I'm trying to do what is best. And we looked at coming down the hill further, and it's just not that much better than what we got. And I think we can make it really nice there. And if we have two stop signs there and have a warning 200 or 300 feet south coming to the north, that would help people to slow down and know they're going to have to stop. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, now...
 Well, we need to decide on the whether we're going to send it to ordinance review or not But I I agree with the chairman of the ordinance review I don't know exactly what we're going to discuss there as far as cost shares and stuff like that I don't even have an estimate of what that roads going to cost so I can't tell you what the cost share is going to Be so I can't commit to that until we get some kind of idea. I think I
 You know, that takes time and Mr. Hayes is ready to build and you're going to be holding up for I don't know how long to make a decision on whether you're going to call share or do a design on the road.
 Now there's some things we can do. We can do like some of the suggestions we can do. We can put stop sign up on the road or not. We can make it right turn only coming out of ASKU and that way they don't make a left turn back. We can, yeah, there's several things that can be done. I wouldn't recommend speed table. I've dealt with enough of those. I'm not a real big speed table fan.
 But at the end of the day, Mr. Hayes has fulfilled his obligations to the ordinance to build that development. So I think the city attorney is giving you some really good advice because it becomes filled by right after a while. If you deny his development, then there's a case could be made, and the city attorney can advise you better on that than I can, but we get into a lot of taking issues and things like that.
 So there's some things that we can do till you know, like we can Say right turn only we can put stop sign we can do some things Right now and then later on you can address whether you want to do another road or not But this decision will be up to you all what you want to do. Yeah. Yes mark. I
 I'd like to make a clarification. It was mentioned that there was a cost share in a previous project. That project had already been planned in the long term in an enterprise fund. The enterprise fund is set up for infrastructure over in water, sewer, and solid waste. In this case, it would be general fund, and we would have to reallocate funds from the general fund, so it would be quite different. So that's another thing that I need to...
 TO MAKE PEOPLE AWARE OF, THAT WAS ALREADY A PROJECT THAT WE HAVE BEEN PLANNING AND TO HAVE SOMEONE STEP FORWARD IN ORDER FOR US TO MOVE AHEAD WITH A COST SHARE WAS AN ADVANTAGE THAT WAS ALREADY IN THE LONG-TERM PLANNING AND ALREADY ACCOUNTED FOR IN AN ENTERPRISE FUND. SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THAT CLARIFICATION. ALL RIGHT. I WOULD AGREE.
 with the neighborhood on connectivity. I believe that there needs to be another route out of that area up in there. I don't disagree with that.
 but it's all about cost and what we've allocated as a council to do road construction on. If you want to change all that up, you can. That will be a decision for you all. I've never been a real big fan of cul-de-sac neighborhoods, but I've always been a proponent of connectivity.
 but i hear a lot of neighborhoods come in here that want cul-de-sac roads in their neighborhood too so i think that the arguments made a couple different directions as you've heard them too so i think the first order business that we have here is the motion to send it to ordinance review i believe is what we're really what we need to focus on right now all right any other comments questions or anything before we vote
 All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. No. Gingin. No. Petty. No. Kinnitt. No. Dutch. No. LeTour. No. Long. Yes. All right. Now we're back to the resolution. We're back to the appeal. Right.
 So that if you vote in favor of the resolution, you are granting the appeal and reversing the Planning Commission, denying the preliminary plat, basically. Which basically would stop the development, correct?
 So a vote yes stops the development. That would be correct. Correct. A vote no goes with the Planning Commission and it's in their program. Yes. It will be the denial of the Planning Commission's approval will be rejected. If you vote no, then the Planning Commission's approval of the preliminary plat will be final. All right. Any final comments here? All right. Sarah. Yes.
 I did want to say thank you to the neighborhood for having us out yesterday. It was helpful to go and walk around and look and see the conditions. And then I went back later in my little tiny car. It's one of the smallest cars on the market today, and it's a manual transmission. So I wanted to test the hill.
 see if I could do 25 and I could easily and even in a Mini Cooper I felt the sight lines were sufficient in the proposed location at ASCU. I do have a lot of concerns about the one way in and one way out and there are a lot of reasons I do wish that I could vote to deny this development but I don't feel that
 the conditions warrant denying or I'm sorry granting this appeal and I do find that the proposed route on ask you does seem to be the most safe of all of the feasible proposals so that's why I'm going to be voting against this appeal.
 more likewise I certainly understand the concerns of the neighborhood and one of the things that we have in Fayetteville that is always so so nice to see is an engaged neighborhood that certainly steps out and expresses their view and I appreciate that wholeheartedly we see it over and over again throughout our city but similar to other other items
 I'm not going to support the appeal because I cannot and I've walked this this several times And I've looked at all the options and I cannot think of a better alternative Than ask you and I would hope that there would be traffic calming as Unpleasant that that is because I live in Wilson Park and if you ever drive through Wilson Park we have the most I
 bothersome traffic calming little circles and bumps, but it works. It keeps people from going from Maple to Prospect lickety split like they used to. There's also a big terrain shift when you're going down Wilson towards the park or down Park Street. So I think that we have to look at remedies in order to make this safe, and with the appropriate remedies, then we can move forward with this development
 and just keep our fingers crossed. And I honestly think that we will have a safe intersection there in the long run. So I would not be able to support the appeal at this time. Okay. Any final comments? I will tell the neighborhood this way. I will be looking at another route out of that area probably. But due to the regards of the time that we have, I'm 
 can't do anything of course tonight. We'll send stuff to transportation and let you all look at another route because I'm I do believe in the connectivity and I do think that roads very steep. We need to address some of that. I also want to thank Chris Brown and his staff because they worked real hard on this project. We looked at several different scenarios and we met with the neighborhood and but he has done I think the best that I
 he can with what he has because that's a pretty steep incline. So all right. If Mark, oh sorry. If there's not any final comments. We need a motion and a second. Oh sorry. We need a motion and a second to I guess approve the appeal. Approve the resolution and Adela you were the sponsor so you might want to make a motion to approve it. I make a motion that we approve the appeal. All right.
 We have a second. Well, I think, what if we don't have a second on this? I'll second it, Mayor. All right. Thank you, Matthew. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the appeal. Yeah, pass the resolution. I'm sorry. Pass the resolution. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? No. Marsh? No. Higgins? No. Petty? No. Bennett? No. Batch? No.
 So the resolution failed and the preliminary plat is now approved pursuant to what the Planning Commission recommended. Okay. Moving along to new business.
 That was uncomfortable. Number one, a resolution to accept a Walton Family Foundation matching grant in the amount of $210,000 for the implementation of a portion of the Kessler Mountain Master Trails plan to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the grant agreement and to approve a budget adjustment. Who has that? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 City Council approval, Parks and Recreation staff applied for a grant with Walton Family Foundation in the amount of $210,000, a matching grant, to begin implementation of the Kessler Mountain Trails Master Plan. Walton Family Foundation has awarded the city this grant. This is a request to the council to approve this grant or approve the grant award.
 The money will be designated toward 3.4 miles of new trail, signage of all of the trail system out there, and repair and upgrade of all of the existing trails into a current good condition.
 Any questions? Okay. We have any questions for Ken on that? Mr. Mayor, by my adding, my math, we, Kessler Mountain is receiving $420,000 in support tonight. So thanks for your work on this grant, which has made you part of it. Yes. Well done, Ken. Do we have any public comment on this? Helen, do you have something? I'm just going to make a motion to pass the resolution.
 Do we have a second? Second it. All right. We have Matthew second it. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? The Fulton Foundation has been a great partner for us in this project. They have really stepped up and helped this city a great deal, and I certainly want to personally thank them, and I'm sure the council certainly wants to thank them as well. So thank you all.
 We have a motion and a second to approve. Any other final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LeTourne? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Number two, a resolution to express the City Council's support for the study and development of an energy action plan in 2017.
 This resolution requests City Council support for the development of an energy action plan in 2017. As you all may be aware, most of the energy that is currently consumed in the City of Fayetteville for powering buildings and for transportation fuels comes from the burning of fossil fuels. Fossil fuels such as coal for electricity, oil for transportation fuels, and natural gas for heating purposes. And most of these fuels are imported into our region from outside of our area.
 Energy efficiency and alternative energy investments represent an opportunity to reduce the reliance on these non-renewable fossil fuels. It can create economic opportunities and create jobs in Fayetteville, such as green jobs in energy efficiency retrofits, in the architecture and engineering fields in terms of design, and then in the construction trades in terms of implementing and constructing those improvements.
 At the same time, energy savings from green buildings and energy efficiency can lower overhead costs for our citizens and for our businesses in our community and are definitely good for our environment. As you may be aware, results of a recently completed community survey indicate that 78% of Fayetteville residents either agree or strongly agree
 that Fayetteville should prioritize energy efficiency and renewable energy policies and programs. Additionally, 62% of residents agree or strongly agreed that Fayetteville should prioritize climate change.
 As you may recall, in 2014 the city participated and was scored under the STAR Communities program. STAR stands for Sustainable Tools for Assessing and Rating Communities. STAR is a tool that is used for community-wide sustainability that helps communities develop a vision for being more sustainable and livable in the future.
 Under STAR, there are seven goal areas, and one of those goal areas is climate and energy. That climate and energy section of STAR is included in your packet.
 And under that goal area, there are outcomes and actions that we propose to utilize to develop the energy action plan. The four primary goal areas that will be utilized are the greenhouse gas mitigation goal area, greening the energy supply, which focuses on
 more renewable and less carbon intensive fuel sources for the community energy efficiency, which of course focuses on more efficient building stock and fuel efficiency and then local greenhouse gas Emission reduction which encourages the city to lead by example for the community by reducing carbon emissions. I
 If the council approves proves this resolution the sustainability department will work with other departments across the city and with community stakeholders To develop a community-wide energy action plan over the next six to eight months We would bring that energy action plan back to you all for formal consideration and adoption one final note this
 Proposal this plan was discussed at the February excuse me the January 23rd Environmental Action Committee meeting and receive unanimous support and recommendation from that committee. Okay with that. I'll be glad to take any questions John Peter gave us a couple of statistics 78 percent and 62 percent of respondents. Give us those again, please Yes, sir
 That was 78% of Fayetteville respondents either agreed or strongly agreed that Fayetteville should prioritize renewable energy and energy efficiency policies and programs. And then 62% of residents agreed or strongly agreed that the City of Fayetteville should prioritize climate change preparedness, and that was from a community survey that was conducted.
 primarily during the month of December 2016. How many people completed that survey? The survey was completed by a little over 1,400 respondents, which is
 roughly one to one and a half percent of the Fayetteville population. How were those 1,400 respondents selected to participate? They were, there was 3,000 postcards mailed out to randomly selected residences throughout the community. And they were invited to participate. And then the survey was actually online or we could get a paper copy. And then additionally there were press releases and other media releases that went out to encourage citizens
 To participate in the survey. We also did outreach at several community events such as the Yvonne Richardson Center the fable senior center At a City Council meeting in December we were doing outreach and publicity about the service selected the 3,000 randomly selected participants It was done through a random address generator working with our GIS department. Thank you Any other questions? Oh, sorry What public comment do we have?
 Hi, Mr. Mayor. My name is Matt Pope of 2536 Elizabeth Avenue. I'm currently a board member of the Energy Improvement District number one. I also have oversight of various environmental compliance programs for Walmart Shores Inc.
 And although I'm not speaking on behalf of Walmart tonight, I will note that they've had a similar plan in place for well over a decade. So a lot of this is in line with what we're already doing. First and foremost, I want to speak to, of course, the environmental impact of this.
 There's not a lot to say there. There's air quality improvement. I don't think we're gonna get a lot of help at the federal level going forward as far as environmental quality control is concerned. So I think that at the local level is kind of where we have to get this thing started. I'm not gonna beat that to death. I know that that's probably the main focus of this, but I wanna speak to two other prongs that I've been able to attest to.
 One of those is the business impact, and given the size of the company that I work for, I've been able to see that at a much accelerated rate. So I want to give some examples of that.
 One recent initiative that we spearheaded was to increase the efficiency of our auxiliary power units Which basically impacts idling for our fleet in California Just from that alone over. I believe that it was implemented last May resulted in a four hundred thousand dollar Mitigated fuel cost just for one state. So that's not our entire fleet of roughly six thousand vehicles That's about three or four hundred vehicles so
 We see the data in place and how it impacts our business, and that's one of the reasons that Walmart supports it, is it's good for the community, and it also is a huge financial boon for the business.
 Something that Peter also touched on is reputational impact just for the city You know, I believe that Peters plan is right in place with the city plan 2030 goals I also believe that we are trying to Brand our city and grow our city as a green community and we're seeing a uptick in Ecotourism just in the region in general. So I think that you can get both reputational capital and you know business impact from that We're gonna see more people in the area and
 you know obviously with the results that we saw today and it's been hit on is it word is out about Fayetteville I think that we're going to keep increasing so I would recommend and I would urge you to consider installing these things into action now before it gets harder as the city gets larger that way we can implement it and work the kinks out before we become even bigger so that is all okay let me have any other public comment
 Mayor Ryan McClain, President of Pinnacle Energy Services on Joyce Street. Just wanted to come in and speak on behalf of the program and really just kind of give a testament to the impact that energy policy in the city's had on at least our small firm. We're 12 members and we were we were eight just two and a half years ago and primarily attribute
 Maybe entirely attribute that the difference in our employment just because of hers policy pace policy and I would add to that The jobs it's interesting like the guys that we have brought in and and in the positions for hers Ratings have actually all been trained and certified in in other capacities and are have transferred from doing hers and one's now a commissioning agent one's now a design engineer electrical electrical design engineer or electrical designing in engineering and
 trade and I've got an energy modeler and another one's doing mechanical design. So I'm having to continue to bring guys in to do HRS ratings to keep that business flowing and then cross train them and able to kind of move them up into other positions. And so it's a great position to kind of get guys in and get them trained up. So anyhow, that's just a small success story for our sake on Joyce Street. I appreciate it. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. I applaud Peter's effort at spearheading this. And what really drives it home for me is in 2011 the Center for Neighborhood Technology found that for every $1 that residents of Northwest Arkansas spend on energy, 97 cents leaves our state.
 So the more money we spend on energy, the more money is flowing out of our local and regional economy instead of staying here and being reinvested in our community. And I think that having a responsible energy plan will help us retain that wealth as well as grow and create jobs in our economy and fulfill the purpose of our economy.
 portion of our Fayetteville first plan where we are branding ourselves as a sustainable city that is moving forward so I strongly support this effort okay Matthew remove we pass resolution well I'll second that we have a motion to second to pass a resolution any final comments from the council Alan no okay
 All right. Everybody good? All right. Thank you, Peter, for your work on this. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tinnin? Yes. Yes. Latour? No. Long? Yes. All right. Number three. Okay.
 A resolution to approve Amendment No. 8 to the Agreement for Operations, Maintenance, and Management Services between the City of Federal Arkansas and CH2M Hill Engineers, incorporated in the amount of $7,807,453 for services
 2017. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This is our annual operation and maintenance contract for the wastewater treatment plants. The scope of these services to be provided by CH2M is the operation maintenance of the Nolan and the Westside wastewater treatment plants, the 43 wastewater pump stations, the biosolids management site, and all related permitting, monitoring, and testing involved with that.
 This annual contract is, for the amount that you said, $7,807,453. The staff is very pleased with the work that CH2M has been doing for the city last year and all the years before. Very competent staff, very professional, and technically sound. So the staff recommends approval of this resolution. Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. What public market?
 I move that we pass this resolution. Okay. Allen? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? No.
 Mark? Well, I do want to mention that from the water, sewer, solid waste point of view, we are very pleased with our relationship with CH2M Hill. I can't imagine that we'd find a more competent or accommodating organization to manage this for the city. So I do want to mention that. Thanks. I agree. I agree. All right. Any other final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 okay number four an ordinance waive the requirements form a competitive bidding and approved cost share agreement with 21 West LLC for the installation of sewer main along a portion of Meadow Street between West Avenue and Greg Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Feville not to exceed thirty six thousand one hundred twenty eight dollars and to approve a project contingency in the amount of seven thousand two hundred and twenty five dollars and sixty cents Kip
 Whereas 21 West LLC will be developing property located at 21 West Avenue and
 has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an eight-inch sewer main along a portion of Meadow Street between West Avenue and Gregg Avenue, a distance of approximately 270 feet. And, whereas the City of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share, as it will extend sewer service to an area in the core of the city that has never been served before and will provide for ample future capacity, which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by this sewer main. Thank you.
 And whereas section 51.113 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system, unquote. And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost, quote,
 by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement
 with 21 West LLC for the installation of an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of Meadow Street between West Avenue and Gregg Avenue, with an estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $36,128, and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $7,225.60.
 Mr. Mayor, I don't have anything to add to the language of the ordinance. I would like to say that I believe the applicant is here if you have any questions. Do I have any questions for the applicant on this? Mark? Again, this is infrastructure that the city has the responsibility to offer.
 the sewer system, and this is going to give us the opportunity to share the cost with the developer. So I move that we accept the  I move that we go to the  suspend the rules and go to the second reading of the ordinance. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMA. Okay. Sarah? CHAIRPERSON WONG. Second that motion. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMA. Okay. Before we get into that, remind me, do we have any public comment on this?
 Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading, correct? Okey-doke. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Right.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 21 West LLC for the installation of a sewer main along a portion of Meadow Street between West Avenue and Gregg Avenue.
 with an estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $36,128 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $7,225.60. And just to clarify the record, we actually could be paid more than $36,000, but that's if we run into problems. Is that right, Tim? That's correct. I guess you'll be back if that occurs. Thank you.
 I suppose you'll be back if that occurs. Well, it's what would be figured into the contingency. Okay. In other words, if it stays in the contingency, you won't be back. Okay. I just want to be clear before I get calls tomorrow. All right. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Right.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 21 west llc for the installation of sewer main along a portion of meadow street between west avenue and greg avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by The city not to exceed thirty six thousand one hundred twenty eight dollars And to approve a project contingency in the amount of seven thousand two hundred and twenty five dollars and sixty cents Okay, any final comments from the council mark?
 okay all right well said yes yes yes yes yes
 All right. Thank you all. Number five, an ordinance waived the crime of formal competitive bidding through December 31st, 2018 to authorize the purchase of police service weapons and holsters and cruise uniforms and equipment incorporated any amount of $109,237 and to approve a budget adjustment kit.
 Whereas the police department transitioned to the Glock 40-caliber service weapons in May of 2007, and they are reaching their safe and practical, quote, end of life, unquote. And whereas Crews Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated, which serves as the city's quartermaster for police department purchases, including holsters, pursuant to Resolution No. 250-13, and is the only authorized law enforcement distributor of Glock weapons in Arkansas,
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of police service weapons and holsters from Crews Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $109,237,
 and further weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding through December 31st, 2018, as long as Cruise Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated remains the only authorized distributor of Glock service weapons in Arkansas. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to the City Council agenda memo in the amount of $18,000.
 Mayor, Council, this is a regularly scheduled replacement. It's also a budgeted CIP item.
 We did not budget enough in CIP to cover this whole project. We were able to put some grant funds with it along with some federal forfeitures, so that's how we're covering the entire project. I think Kit pretty much said the rest of it. The reason there's a bid waiver is because Cruise Uniforms is the only authorized dealer of Glock pistols for law enforcement in Arkansas, and then the second part of that on the holsters is they are our contracted equipment supplier and have been for several years now.
 Okay. Do we have any questions for the Chief Allen? Hi, Chief. I just had one question. I'm sorry I should ask you. That's that agenda. I just noticed it. We're purchasing it. It looks like 23 fourth generation fixed sites. Excuse me. 23 fourth generation Glocks, 55 of those. And we're getting a trade in for 37 GL23Cs. Are those the same? So we have a. Just different gens or.
 So the weapons we have now, most of them are what's called Generation 3 weapons. We do have some Generation 4s. So the current Generation 4 weapons we have now, we're not trading, so that's why those numbers are not exactly the same. That's what I was curious about. Thank you. Any other questions from the chief? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, bring it back to the council.
 Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yeah, let me get the mover in second. It's okay. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. All in favor? Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through December 31st, 2018, and authorize the purchase of police service weapons and holsters from Cruise Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $109,237 and to approve a budget adjustment. Medela. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. No, we do the third reading. Third reading. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 So would you please call the roll right? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Yes, yes Yes an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through December 31st 2018 and authorized the purchase of police service weapons and holsters from Cruz uniforms and equipment incorporated in the amount of $109,237 and to approve a budget adjustment I
 any final comments from the council Sandra would you please call the road right yes Marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you number six an ordinance rezone about 1.27 acres described rezoning petition 16-56 77 located at 3535 East Hounsville Road from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RA residential agriculture kit
 It is ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map and legal description , both attached to the Planning Department's memo from RSF IV residential single-family units per acre to RA .
 SECTION 2, THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORL, ARKANSAS, HEREBY AMENDS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF FAVORL TO REFLECT THE ZONING CHANGE PROVIDED IN SECTION 1. NEW SPEAKER J. JEREMY. NEW SPEAKER J. THIS IS A REQUEST FOR REZONING ON THE EAST SIDE OF FAVORL. IT'S ALMOST 1.3 ACRES ON EAST HUNTSPILL ROAD BETWEEN DEAD HORSE MOUNTAIN ROAD AND STONEBRIDGE ROAD. THE PROPERTY ALSO CONTAINS PORTION OF THE PROPERTIES ALSO WITHIN THE COUNTY, WASHINGTON COUNTY. SO YOU CAN SEE BY OUR ZONING MAPS THAT THERE'S A LOT OF ZONING.
 our city limit lines extend quite a ways out to the east side of fable but on certain sections it's only about 300 feet in depth this property was in the county recently approved for a new mini storage type facility the portion in the city is zoned rsf4 the request is to rezone the rsf4 property to residential agricultural
 The initial request was for commercial designation community services. Staff and the Planning Commission both voiced concerns about that particular designation considering that most of the residential uses out here in this quite rural area we believe would support that type of development pattern.
 So we spoke with the applicant they agreed that residential agricultural was would meet their needs essentially their need here is to place a sign For their business that will be located to the north of the city limits We felt our a was appropriate zone applicant agreed and Planning Commission also voted 8 to 0 in favor of that request Okay, is the applicant here with a yes. Yes, sir. Mayor. I'm Nathan Harris. I
 And I think it's well put. What Jeremy said, we are, you know, our main goal on this front piece of property is to have a sign, monument sign to put up to advertise our storage facility. Okay. Any questions? Council, staff, or the app? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 Chair Greg Musil, 2nd Reading
 An ordinance to rezone about 1.27 acres ascribed in rezoning petition 16-5677 located at 3535 East Huntsville Road from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RA residential agricultural. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. I second that. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. March? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Metsch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. An ordinance to rezone about 1.27 acres described in rezoning petition 16-5677, located at 3535 East Huntsville Road, from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RA residential agriculture. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 That the City Council of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend section 16402 accessory structures and uses of the Unified Development Code by enacting a new subsection A6 as follows. Shared accessory structures. Shared accessory structures may be constructed across common property lines subject to all building and fire codes. Building setbacks for shared accessory structures may be administratively varied to permit zero lot line development.
 Easements for driveway access and maintenance of the structure and driveway shall be provided prior to the issuance of a building permit. For purposes of calculating size of shared accessory structures, only that portion of the shared accessory structure on the lot with the principal structure shall count toward the maximum allowable size.
 Chairman. Mayor and Council, you may have noticed a significant uptick in infill development in the downtown area, particularly in South Fayetteville as well. And in coordination with two of our city plan 2030 goals, making appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority and also making traditional town form the standard, city planning staff is recommending this ordinance amendment to you all. This would allow for shared accessory structures such as a detached garage, for instance, to
 or a small storage shed to be allowed to be located on a property line. Right now there's a setback for those structures, three to five feet based upon the size of the structure and the zoning district. What this would allow is for a very traditional development pattern that you see oftentimes in Washington Willow District or even South Fayetteville in the Walker Park area for that type of development pattern to again exist.
 with a very much more clear permitting procedure. And so in order to alleviate the ambiguity and increase in flexibility with our residential development patterns, we are recommending this minor ordinance amendment essentially allows for another section within our accessory structures
 shared garages and storage buildings things of that nature would be allowed to be located on the property line without having to seek variances or other process requirements planning commission agreed and voted eight to zero in support of this request all right um any questions from the council all right any public comment okay bringing it back
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ginnium? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letier? Yes.
 In Ordinance to Amend Section 164.02, Accessory Structures and Uses of the Unified Development Code to Allow the Construction of Shared Accessory Structures. Chair Greg Musil I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Chair Greg Musil I second that motion. Chair Greg Musil We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 right yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance to amend section 164.02 accessory structures and uses of the unified development code to allow the construction of shared accessory structures any final comments from the council it's good work jimmy all right sundry would you please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number eight an orange to men 151.01 definitions in 174.09 sign illumination of the Unified Development Code to repeal unneeded definitions and to remove a requirement that sign illumination on the i-540 overlay district be indirect kit
 Whereas after a couple square all steel siding box like buildings appeared near interstate 49 then I 540 in Fayetteville the city council was concerned that future development along the interstate would be deterred from construction quality attractive buildings if their neighbors might construct these cheap and unattractive buildings nearby which could devalue their investment and development.
 And whereas after very contentious meetings, the City Council enacted the I-540 design overlay district to ensure higher quality development near the interstate. And whereas a couple of years after the success of the design standards of the I-540 overlay district, the City Council enacted the citywide commercial design standards and later repealed most of the unnecessary I-540 design overlay district requirements.
 And whereas the indirect lighting requirement for signs in the I-540 overlay district is now obsolete and should be repealed and the direct illumination requirement amended to reflect new technology. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Favreau Arkansas section one.
 that the City Council of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals the definition of illumination direct and illumination indirect of Section 151.01, Definitions of the Unified Development
 Section 2 that the City Council City of favorable arcs are hereby amends section 174 o 9 sign illumination by amending subsection a to read illumination is restricted to incandescent light bulbs rated at 50 watts or less or other type of light emitting sources equivalent lumen output not to exceed 2700 lumens and by repealing subsection B
 Okay. Jeremy. Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Williams can probably speak to the history a lot better than I. He was on the City Council when the I-540 overlay district was adopted back in 1994. But in essence, that was an overlay district around our interstate, relatively new interstate.
 related to design standards landscaping signage lighting setbacks building how buildings appeared and as mr. Williams mentioned many of those requirements were either no longer needed over the years or absorbed into other different codes by the City Council
 Recently discovered was a couple of definitions that we no longer really utilize direct and indirect elimination for signage as well as an outdated code requirement in our sign ordinance stating in requiring incandescent bulbs no
 larger than I think 25, 125 watts or whatever the standard was. It's something we have not utilized in many, many years. A lot of signs now use LG. I still have 150-watt bulbs. Most of our signs now utilize sort of an in,
 indirect illumination from the sign itself utilizing LED. It's not really measured in wattage. It's more in lumens. And so we felt it to be helpful in terms of, again, a permitting procedure to allow someone to submit something that would be in compliance. That was actually a customer of ours that brought this to our attention when they were looking for a sign permit, and they brought this up. And so we felt that it was necessary to change it and would appreciate your support. Dr. All right.
 We have any questions for staff on this? If you wonder where the 2700 loons came from, I think it was Google that gave us that as we look for 150 watt comparable light sources and so that's approximately right. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Well, I'm going to bring this back to the council.
 I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Clark? I know it was 1944 when you did this. Yes, I was almost born then. Kids live long enough to see it, the change. No, it was candles when I was born. Oh, me. Where was I? All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading, correct? Yes. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes. Ms. Marr? Yes. Mr. Kenyon? Yes. Ms. Setti? Yes. Ms. Bennett? Yes. Ms. Butts? Yes. Ms. Lueb? Yes. Mr. Long? Yes. Mr. And the ordinance amends Section 151.01, Definitions, and Section 174.09, Signed Illumination of the Unified Development Code to repeal the unneeded definitions and to remove a requirement that signed illumination in the I-540 overlay district be indirect. Mr. Mark? Mr. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. Chair Greg Musil We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Ms. Marsh? Yes. Ms. Kingman? Yes. Ms. Eddy? Yes. Ms. Bennett? Yes. Ms. Bunch? Yes. Ms. Trier? Yes. Ms. Long? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes. Chair Jerry Cook? Yes.
 All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes. Okay, that concludes our business tonight. What announcements do we have? Susan, do you have some?
 yes sir mayor um i'd like to bring to the city council's attention and to the attention of our public that we will have a website update going live this weekend on on monday when citizens come to www.fayetteville-ar.gov they will notice a new color palette new graphics modern more streamlined
 look trying to make all of our services more prominent citizen services so don't be confused it will look very different but we hope you'll like it if you have any trouble finding anything please let me know all of the information is being converted to the new website design so we're not losing anything it's just being rearranged a little I have just a couple more announcements from
 And all of this can be found under Fayetteville-AR.gov slash news. But we do have adult kickball spring league registration now open, adult softball spring league registration opening tomorrow, February 8th. Ladies DU registration has been opened. The race is June 11th. Northbound College between Sunbridge to Drake has been reduced to one lane for drainage improvements. This work will end at the end of this week.
 And the city clerk has announced the city seeking volunteers for boards and committees. Deadline for applications February 24th. And as you all heard earlier, U.S. News and World Report recognized Fayetteville and the Northwest Arkansas metropolitan area as fifth best place to live in the United States. Yay. Thank you. They were only off by four. All right. Any other announcements? Any other announcements?
 I do want to say it'll be my honor tomorrow to drive to Little Rock in order to appear for the Supreme Court on Thursday morning to defend the civil rights ordinance. It was supposed to be last week, but they had to postpone it for one week, so it's going to be on Thursday morning. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. Good work. We're adjourned.