i would like to call the city council uh meeting of february 4th 2020 to order care would you please call the road kenyan petty here scroggins president bunch here turk here smith here peteris here marsh here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, welcome everyone. All right, let's go ahead and get started tonight on the reports. Paul has his monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Welcome, Mayor and Council. Welcome, Mayor.
 Yes. For the month of November. In fiscal year. It's not the final report because we still have adjustments coming in. We still have accruals to make. Believe it or not, we've still got a few bills coming in. We have to pay against the 2019 budget. But I'll give you the report as we stand right now. The general fund, remember we had a rocky start. We had three negative months in the first six months.
 We came back pretty strong in the last five months. The last five months we were roughly up about 4%. So for the year, our budget was up about 1%.
 This was 2.44% when compared to last year. In total revenues, when we look at the ups and downs, our franchise fees were up a little bit, turn back from the state was down a little bit, courts were down a bit, and alcohol beverages and some of the other charges were in fact up. Overall, we're up about 1.2% compared to budget. So it was pretty good year for the general fund here at the city of Fayetteville.
 Expenditures are just about in line with budget. We're closing those out right now. Again, we're going to talk about this in March when we final things out.
 As far as the street fund is concerned, a good year for the street fund, we're up about 4% in revenue. That was generally driven by the one-half cent sales tax that was a state sales tax approved by the citizens of Arkansas. So we're up about 4% in revenue to the street fund. As far as the parking fund.
 Total revenue is up about 1% in the parking fund. Our fees were up roughly 3%. Fines were down 5%. I guess that's a good thing for the people using the facilities. They paid for their fees, but we weren't making a lot on fines. They were down a bit. Altogether, the revenue was up about $16,000 for the fund. Remember, we've still got some capital commitments to make.
 The parking fund so far is doing well this year. Again, we're finishing off the Meadow Street parking deck. That will take a major capital project off the table for us. HMR funds parking development, up about 2% in total through the end of the year.
 So they had a good thing. That's our HMR taxes drives that. Water and sewer funds really bottomed out at the end of the year. We were up 2%, 2.5% most of the year. But here in the last couple of months, we were down. And our total fees were up 0.2% for the year. So we leveled off in usage there.
 We do have an extra $20 million in capital funds. It's still under construction at this point in time. Remember that we've beefed up capital for next year. Got about $45 million worth of capital work to do in water and sewer next year. However, we do have the money in fund balance to pay for that. We'll also be looking at a new rate study for water and sewer fee.
 For the recycling and trash collection funds, remember we didn't impact revenues into the initial budget. We had a right study during the year. We were up 5% compared to budget. We're down in total. We'll end up with a little operating loss.
 for the year, about $738,000, $740,000 for the year. But that's not unexpected. That was expected. And in fact, what we're doing is drawing down from fund balance of that as we had a large balance in reserves.
 As far as a airport fund is the gas sales were down 5% compared to last year remember last year was a manner year For them however when I look at the operations and expenditures for the airport fund we're up around $100,000 for the year So all in all I'll say even though we're on the rocky start early in the year We ended up and headed up being a pretty positive year for the city of Fayetteville financially, I'll have the
 part of our final numbers in march when we talk and i'll be happy to answer any questions if you have some at this point in time what questions do i have all right thank you paul very much next order business we have nine is consent number one approval of january 7 2020 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 20-03 and to authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from S&R Trucking Winslow LLC as a primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2020. Number three, a resolution to approve bid number 19-54 and to authorize a contract with KJAC's contractors incorporated any amount of $1 million
 $595,000 for the construction of approximately 3,300 linear feet of 24-inch water main along Morningside Drive to approve a project contingency in the amount of $159,500.
 Number four resolution to approve supplemental agreement number three to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated any amount not to exceed 125,000 $258 for construction management and observation services associated with the Morningside Drive 24 inch water line replacement project number five a resolution to award bid number 19-51 and authorized purchases of two
 ceiling slide gates for the aeration basin of the Nolan water resource recovery facility from Haynes pump and process LLC in the amount of thirty two thousand one hundred fifty dollars plus split taxes freight charges number six a resolution to approve the purchase of two high voltage switch gears and ten pad mounted transformers for the Nolan and
 Water Resource Recovery Facility from Gaybar Electric Company, Inc., any amount of $411,760 plus taxes and freight charges pursuant to a U.S. Community's National Cooperative Purchasing Program contract. Number seven.
 resolution to prove a professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins where engineers incorporated any amount of 162 thousand one hundred thirty dollars for design bidding and construction management services for the construction of a gravity gravity bypass sanitary sewer north Gregg Avenue and North Fulbright Expressway number eight
 A resolution to award bid number 19-63 in the authorized contract with H&H Electric Incorporated any amount of $362,225 for the Beacon and Wind Cones project at the airport to approve change order number one to change the location of the power supply for the proposed project.
 Beacon and reduce the construction cost to two hundred and eighty one thousand five hundred fifty dollars to approve a budget adjustment recognizing a 8020 grant received from the ADA and to approve a project contingency in the amount of thirty one thousand two hundred fifty dollars number nine a resolution approved three-year lease agreement with Brimber pilot services and M
 MK Rockwell investments for office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue for the rent in the amount of four hundred four hundred and eleven dollars six cents per month number ten resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Alpine Aviation of federal Incorporated for hangar space in the airport terminal building at 41 66 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of seven hundred dollars per month number 11 a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with surfco a
 Restoration and construction LLC for the office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $594.25 per month. Number 12, a resolution of Ward bid number 19-58 and authorized generator maintenance contract with Clifford Power Systems, Corp.
 for a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms in the annual amount of $27,724 plus the cost of any non-scheduled service calls. Number 13, a resolution to approve the purchase of two Dodge Ram 1500 trucks from Lewis Ford and FedMil in the total amount of $45,655 presented to a state procurement contract for use by the Facilities Management Division and Utilities Department into approved budget adjustment. Number 14,
 A resolution to approve the purchase of a Chevrolet Traverse from Superior Chevrolet of Siloam Springs, any amount of $24,389 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department. Number 15, a resolution to repeal Resolution Number 274-19 to authorize the purchase of a hybrid Ford Interceptor from Lewis Ford, a federal, any amount of $36,233 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department.
 Number 16, a resolution to award RFP 19-04 and authorize a contract with Quality Collision Repair and Collision Repair Services for City Vehicles. Number 17.
 A resolution authorizing acceptance of a project safe neighborhood grant award any amount of $13,000 for the federal police department and to prove budget adjustment. Number 18. A resolution authorizing acceptance of a project safe neighborhood grant award any amount of $23,000 for the fourth judicial district drug task force and to prove budget adjustment. Number 19.
 Resolution approved budget adjustment in the amount of $100 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department from our best bank for the annual Employee Service Awards event number 20 a resolution
 resolution to authorize the purchase of annual software maintenance from MSI Consulting Group LLC for the virtual justice software used by the district court police department and the city prosecuting prosecutor division in the amount of $21,600 plus collective taxes and to approve a 5% project contingency in the amount in the event additional licenses are needed number 21 a resolution
 to approve a budget adjustment recognizing federal aid funds received from the Arkansas Department of Transportation in the amount of 286 thousand five hundred twelve dollars for right-of-way acquisition for the Sane Street extension project number 22 a resolution authorized acceptance of wetland program development grant in the amount of two hundred seventeen thousand seven hundred two dollars from the Environmental Protection Agency region six for the restoration of Tanglewood branch and to prove budget in
 adjustment and number 23 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment for the Community Resource Division in the total amount of $3,497 representing donations from citizens and local businesses. I'll entertain a motion sets consent agenda as read I move that we accept the consent agenda as read. Okay, do we have second second we have Motion and second to accept consent agenda is read care which police call the roll Eddie yes
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to amend ordinance number 60-96 which
 It's an active commercial plan zoning district 18-6 318 Pratt place in and barn at 2231 West Markham Road to reduce the front setbacks for planning area number two along Cross Avenue Some second reading was their motion to go to the third and final read So move that we go to the third and final reading slow second. We have a motion second go to the third and finally Care which please call the roll petty I
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. And ordinance to amend ordinance number 6096, which enacted commercial plan zoning district 18-6318, Pratt Place Inn and Barn at 2231 West Markham Road to reduce the front setbacks for planning area number two along Cross Avenue.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I know all of you are aware of this. The item in front of you is whether you want to reduce the front yard setback on four lots on Cross Avenue from 20 feet to 15 feet. I know there's broad interest in many other issues, but that's what's in front of you tonight. Okay. Is the applicant here to discuss that? I believe the applicant's here if you have questions. Mr. Lawrence Finn. I got you. Thank you.
 Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Council. I'm here to make myself available to answer any questions associated with this amendment. I do appreciate staff support in helping move this through. Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I had a question for staff.
 I recall at the last meeting and also reading in the packet that some mention of timeline with respect to changing street dedication requirements and the Approval of the PZD this request to be modified. I was hoping that you could Illuminate that a little more for us Actually, I have an illustration that approximate the issue the I
 The preliminary plan dedicated approximately 1.5 feet additional right of way from the existing right of way, which moved the setback 1.5 feet. The 2040 master plan asked for an additional dedication of one foot on each side, and that one foot is to accommodate a wider sidewalk if this sidewalk is already in place and won't be replaced. But if it were constructed new, it would be six feet instead of five feet.
 So it's approximately 2.5 feet or half of the requested change. Now the reason we're going from or proposing to go from 20 to 15 feet is we don't do, the entire zoning ordinance doesn't go in between numerals of five. So we don't have a 17.5 foot front yard setback anywhere else.
 It would either be 20 or 15. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Okay, thank you. All right, we will take public comment now. Here's the rules for everybody. Everybody gets one turn to mic. You have a five-minute duration unless the city council has questions for you or by a motion and vote of the majority of the council to give you more time, they will decide how much time that will be.
 Don't engage anybody on the city council or in the public. Stay on topic. And let's not have a lot of, I don't want any outbursts here tonight. I've dealt with a few of those here lately. I know hand clapping, booing, laughing, carrying on. I don't want any outbursts tonight. And please give us your name and address. So who would like to be first tonight?
 Hello, my name is Katie Simon. I live at 817 North Sunset Drive. I'm having just a little bit of trouble hearing you. Okay, that echo is really bad. I don't know if you guys have stood here. There, this is better. Katie Simon, 817 North Sunset Drive. We have some questions that we've sent to you in an email previous, and I was wondering if I could hand out a copy of those questions that I'll be reading through in hopes that you might be able to answer them tonight. May I pass them out to the council, please? That's not as important as you're going to do.
 Specialized real estate groups request for variance in their phase one development plan for Markham Hill should be denied. Page two of the City Council memo for the meeting on January 7, 2019 stated
 As a part of the 2018 amendment for the CPZD 05-1670, the applicant included a 20 foot landscape buffers, the applicant included 20 foot landscape buffers along Markham Road and 20 foot setbacks throughout the planning area too. The intent of this is to promote lot layouts that allow dwellings to be nestled within tree canopy and respectful of existing neighborhood context. And that's quote,
 Let me repeat that, respectful of the existing neighborhood context. The existing neighborhood context is wooded. It is one house per one to five or more acres with setbacks greater than 20 feet. Most if not all houses on Housell, Markham and Sang adjacent to SREG's proposed phase one development of Markham Hill are 50 to 250 feet in their setback.
 Our existing neighborhood context also includes our city's largest intact urban forest east of Interstate 49. This forest is critical habitat not only to wildlife and natural flora of our Ozark region, but a natural sanctuary for the people of our city both past and present. For 40 years our resident runners and the U of A cross country and track teams have called these woods and the trails that shelter their sanctuary.
 They believe this sanctuary has been critical to their championship achievements over the last 30 years. The existing neighborhood context has sheltered and preserved a history that is not only important to the people of the University and the city of Fayetteville, but to our great state of Arkansas and our nation as a whole. It was here that Evangeline Pratt Archer wrote a letter to J. William Fulbright and began the efforts to save the buffalo.
 This is the birthplace of the Ozark Society and our nation's first national river. It was Evangeline Pratt Archer and Joy Markham's wish that this place be conserved for future generations of conservationists and residents. The variant should not be approved. Otherwise, SREG is reneging on a promise to the neighborhood, the people of Fayetteville, and the city.
 The city council seems to be bending over backwards to allow SREG to destroy Markham Hill with development. We know of specific projects elsewhere where SREG promised conservation development and then broke their promises by cutting down most of, if not all, the trees and replacing the natural land with impervious surfaces with a tree here and there left. Surrounding neighborhoods were aghast.
 You have copies of the questions. I'd like to go over them and hope that you might have time to answer.
 Number one, if a developer has demonstrated promise breaking misrepresentation and alternate facts, do the Planning Commission and City Council have to approve the rezoning and variance permits, et cetera, just because the applications were filled out correctly and no code or ordinance was broken? If so, this is a very sad situation for the future of Fayetteville. With so many letters and speeches from the public, why are the Fayetteville residents being ignored over and over again?
 Over and over again the city officials appear to be showing favoritism to the developers and discriminating against the residents who don't make money from the development. I believe this is unjust and unrighteous favoritism to the money makers and discrimination to the non-money makers. Question number two.
 Is this what the city wants history books to say about Fayetteville City government during this time period? Question number three. How are the Planning Commission and City Council going to correct their complicity in helping Seth Mims, representing SREG, break his sworn promises in federal court during the Archer bankruptcy trial in February of 2016? And you have a copy of the attached, of a transcript from Seth Mims' testimony.
 The following concerns the 72 acres west half of Markham Hill, which was rezoned. And you have a copy of the rest of those questions. I hope you'll take time to answer them. We are not against infill. We are against infill that destroys our last remaining intact urban forest. Time. Time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Fran Alexander Fox and Road to pick up on what Katie has said the variance 15 versus 20 feet these houses are too close together and they make the street look like a row house neighborhood this is not a row house neighborhood and to follow the usual terms in Fayetteville about development
 Does it make transition and is it compatible? It is neither to do these houses in this design. There are too many of them, too close to the road. Making it from 20 to 15 feet brings them even closer. You turn that corner, you're going to be lined with a canyon of houses right alongside your view. This is entirely different than what is there now. So there's too many on too little space.
 This variance is one element in the compromised integrity of this neighborhood and of the care for the land around and near these houses. There will be too much pavement and hard surfaces to allow for trees and other vegetation. They'll be too close to the street and probably in danger of the existing trees that are there. And they will certainly not be nestled in the woods as well.
 described earlier in their documents and there'll be very little space for any woods left over please vote against this variance thank you thank you who else would like to address us Carl Williford 1433 North Garland I'd like to pick up where Katie Simon left off
 On page 67, question, are you the West 72, the property that's the subject of the individual Archer estate? What are your plans with that property?
 I plan to, we plan to develop a single family neighborhood, a series of clustered single family homes, little pocket neighborhoods, if you will, intertwined by walking trails and green spaces. This sworn statement was broken when SRG EG asked for and the planning commission and city council approved the rezoning to RAU with 480 living units of
 of singles, duplexes, triplexes, and quadruplexes using part of this land and part of the former 72-acre PZD. You can also read in the transcript that Seth Nims was working to work out several other deals with people, one being to help Julian Archer buy back the Pratt Inn property, page six, and another to let Julian and Jane Archer keep the four acres of property in their family home in Fayetteville, that's on page eight.
 That is referring to their log houses in the woods near the Pratt Inn. Question. Is the City Council okay with supporting the breaking of sworn testimony by developers in federal court?
 In addition to Seth's sworn testimony not being carried out, there are serious questions about the bankruptcy trial as a whole. The trustee of the land did not advertise the $3.1 million sale of the 144-acre property sufficiently in that the city didn't know. The people of Fayetteville didn't know, and my guess is the University of Arkansas didn't know.
 So the trustee said there were no buyers, but there is here is Seth Mims ready to buy and for 3.1 million. Where is the judge in this? Isn't he supposed to have the land appraised? Would have been between five and six million in order to set the sale price at the appraised value so that there would be no question of fraud.
 How is it that the judge, trustee, and Seth Mims came to this agreement of selling 144 acres for $3.1 million? Many in Fayetteville who know about Markham Hill find this situation extremely questionable. If it was illegal or fraudulent in any way, then the city is complicit by continuing with SREG's money-making Markham Hill development project. I suggest finding out the truth before proceeding with any development and destruction of Markham Hill.
 Question, will the city investigate the bankruptcy trial to make sure it was illegal before continuing to support the Markham Hill project? The residents who don't make money from development of Fayetteville want to save Markham Hill and preserve it for all the many good reasons you have heard over the past year. This month of January we have had over 1,100 new signatures and supporters on our change.org petition to save Markham Hill.
 that is more than the number who answered your 2040 plan infill survey that you rely on as truth we are not against infill we are against infill that destroys our last remaining intact urban forests we are against infill that destroys our city's conservation Heritage Legacy and the character of the historic places it took place we are against infill
 of our running community sanctuary. We are not against business, BC Energy profitable. We want business and out of state funders to stay out of our city's regulatory and political process. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Martha Sutherland from Haskell Heights in Atlanta.
 Top of the Markham Hill and I have a question Will reducing the front setbacks along along cross Avenue there imperil the Important row of trees that along there that have been planted by the neighbors I think short answer would be no, but you can explain that a little bit Yes, the mayor answered it very well this
 The streets have been the subject of intense interest not only by the neighborhood but by the city They are in the city right away originally This is the primary plan which isn't on the agenda tonight originally the applicant had proposed parallel parking and Had proposed to remove some of the trees the Planning Commission approved a plat which involved some creativity
 It uses a little bit of hard surfacing for each drive and a gravel parking space. But the critical information here is that these houses are all proposed to have rear access. So they're going to have a driveway here. So by the time you get to the garage and the home and the front porch, the space gets tight.
 So there isn't a lot of space for a proper turning radius off the alley, which is an issue that became more intense when we took additional right-of-way. But the city foresters have carefully reviewed this plan and believe that the trees that were planted about 15 years ago will survive. Okay. Thank you, Martha. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Everybody, if you want to speak, we need to have folks start and kindly. I'm Rob Kers, 1666 West Hallsale on Markham Hill. I'm just reading from the rules of order and procedure of Fayetteville City Council adapted 1.3.2019. I would like to start with the responsibility to all citizens.
 Code of Ethics, Section G, Number 4. Members of the City Council and Mayor shall conduct themselves so as to bring credit upon the City as a whole and so as to set an example of good ethical conduct for all citizens of the community. The members of the City Council and Mayor shall bear in mind at all times that their responsibility to the entire electric shall refrain from actions benefiting special interest groups at the expense of the City as a whole.
 Then I would like to read from section three of code of ethics, conflict of interest. Members of city council and mayor shall refrain from making use of special knowledge or information court is made available to the general public. They shall refrain from making or influencing decisions involving business associates, customers, clients, competitors, immediate family members, and shall comply with lawful actions, directives, and orders of the duly constituted municipal officers.
 as such may be issued in the normal and lawful discharge of duties of these municipal officers. Nothing herein, however, shall serve to deny the members of the City Council and the Mayor of the legal rights and privileges available to all Fayetteville citizens." This was the basis of my lawsuit that opposed the passing of the rezoning.
 We have business associates voting on and influencing rezoning. I've brought the attention to the city attorney. I've sent letters to the mayor, sent letters to other people. I don't think that's been properly addressed legislatively. There was nothing to be done with it in court, according to the judge. So I lay it back on your hands. We need to follow your code of ethics.
 We don't follow the code of ethics become the path from public servant to public parasite is a short distance I'm not saying that's happened, but If there are people that are associates of specialized Then we need to know about it. All right. Thank you. We also like to addresses. Is this okay to hear? Yeah This is good. Thank you. Okay. I'm Rena Jean Schmig. I live at 803 North Park Avenue and
 and I appreciate you letting me talk. I want to talk about the number of people who are desperate to try to save Markham Hill. We have had over 5,000 people
 800 people signed a petition asking that Markham Hill be received from this development. And I brought some papers where a number of these people have written their comments as to what mattered to them. Some of them wrote very short things, some wrote longer things, and I thought you might enjoy just hearing some of them.
 And I'm not going through their names. If you want them, I can certainly provide all of this to you. One, a natural resource cannot be regained when lost.
 Habitat such as Markham Hill is essential to the natural diversity it provides to an area already fragmented by development. Markham Hill benefits humans and all species, including butterflies, birds, herps, and the wildlife that depend upon its ecology. Close access to nature is one of Fayetteville's best qualities. We cannot get the wildlife back once the development occurs.
 People of Arkansas value trees far more than most urban spread. It is critical that we preserve this land to protect the incredible nature and wildlife that lives on the property. It is natural areas, excuse me, if all natural areas are developed Fayetteville will just be another overcrowded ugly town.
 With all the extensive development that has gone on in the Fayetteville area in the last two decades, I hope to see some wild places preserved, not only for the wildlife that depended on it for habitat, but also for us and for our children and their children's children.
 A place like Malcolm Hill is a perfect example of a virgin, deciduous, upland forest that needs to be protected for the reasons stated in this petition. If this does not happen before we know it, we will turn around and there will be nothing left of the natural beauty that existed in the Fayetteville area prior to the expansion created by developers.
 destruction of markham's natural beauty is irreversible just look at the scars that recent developments have left on nearby properties the long stretch of nettleship leading up to ramey junior high was once forested with decades-old trees that were not only beautiful but also contributed to cooling in summer and provided wind protection in cooler months
 Rather than develop the land responsibly, the developers literally removed every tree, stump, woodland shrub, and speck of green on the property. This natural beauty was not incorporated into the development, and what resulted was a row of townhouses without a mature tree in sight.
 These developers may have replaced a fraction of what they destroyed according to the strict letter of our city's ordinances, but if what was planted actually survives, it will be 10 to 15 years before any trees will reach a noticeable size. The north side of Markham has also been scarred. Here the developers preserved some of the majestic trees on the lot, but...
 I'm signing because this green space is so very important to all of us, wildlife, humans, and all. The deer are already coming into the neighborhoods. This never happened except in the past two years. My home of 36 years in Fayetteville is changing to the point of being unrecognizable. I will do whatever I can to help retain the beauty of our special area of the state.
 Fayetteville is one of the top 10 places of its size to live in America. Managing green space, providing environmental leadership, and standing by hillside development studies paid for by our city will show our continued stewardship and concern for our carbon footprint. Let's try to keep this pristine green space in order to show citizens and our children how this is done. Tom.
 time thank you okay thank you evening my name is robert koser i live at 1777 west hustle road and i favor this property on the north side i'm not in favor of this deviation i'm going to stick to the the subject hand it's too close to the road you don't need houses close to the road the developer
 The PCD themselves, they agreed to it, they negotiated with you all, and now they're coming to change it because they can't squeeze enough house on that lot. This is a simple solution. Reduce the size of the house. Do the math. Five feet times, it's going to be what? 500 square feet per house? Reduce the size. Maybe cut a bedroom out. If they can't make a profit with that reduced size, then I have serious doubts whether they're going to be able to make a profit with what they're doing. They're that close on their margins. So...
 If they're that close, they need five feet. What does that say about the rest of the project? That's about all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello. I'm Madeline Reed. I live 1662 North Evening Shade Drive. I wasn't intending to stand up and speak today, but on behalf of the men's and women's cross-country and track team, we are against this development.
 And I think personally, for our generation to come, developments like these are going to have to stop on a global scale because of the impact that it's having on our Earth.
 So I just wanted to put that out there. And I know that Specialized Real Estate Group is environmentally friendly, and they have LEED certified buildings. However, it doesn't take a high education to look at the Beechwood apartments and realize that those materials were not sustainable, because they're having to do a lot of reconstruction on those. So I just think developments like these need to be stopped in the future, because we're running out of time.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Michael Hegarty from 1788 West Halsall, and thanks for the chance to speak to you all. I've been to many of these meetings and listened to some really important people speaking about their neighborhood and their city.
 And so far as I can tell, 99.99% of every word spoken up here has been against the development overall, has been against the nitpicking extra five yards closer to the street, all these changes and things of this nature that you're seeing. And very, except for maybe the one young lady who speaks on behalf of the city.
 the support of the project, which we obviously respect that opinion, but it's been only one positive voice that I've heard in, I don't know, five or six meetings here. And then I just heard tonight that there's been more signatures in one month against the development than there were in total. Is that correct? For the 20 that even contributed to the city's 2040 plans. Is that what I heard tonight?
 I think that's what I heard. That is what you heard mayor? Yes. Yes, which is I don't know an interesting comparison to get you to if you weren't fully aware of the thoughts of your city That more people on this one issue have contributed than the city's very important and
 future plans. I would imagine that all of you find that to be more than interesting numbering comparison. And a couple of times even at these meetings, I've heard members of the council speak to the residents with quotes such as, you should be grateful this isn't worse. Multiple council members have said we should be grateful that this project isn't worse.
 which just really, I just think would rub anybody the wrong way to think that way about anything, especially your city that you all love and we all love. And I just don't know that that would be the...
 vision that you would want promoted for your city, this great city, if you, I don't think we would ever want to see on a television screen, you know, Fayetteville, I'm grateful it isn't worse. That would just be, I don't imagine anybody's feeling that way. But, you know, we trust our elected representatives to do the right thing.
 And this ridiculous little thing we're talking about tonight, and wanting to move all this stuff closer to the road, give me a break. There's a number of solutions that don't involve that. One of them, Mr. Kozer, I believe, mentioned is very simple. I mean, how much do we have to give when it's already been too much? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Sarah. Sarah.
 Thank you. I think it's important that we recognize that this isn't about if Markham Hill will be developed or not. That decision has been made. And...
 This isn't a decision about public sentiment. It's about property rights. And the truth is that we did have a very difficult decision to make, and we listened to what the public was interested in, and that was land conservation. And in striking this deal, we were able to preserve the most environmentally sensitive parts of this mountain and shift the development to a place where it was closer to jobs, closer to transit, closer to existing development.
 You know, this land is privately owned. It's not for sale. So the idea that we can save Markham Hill is not realistic. What they are asking for is to reduce their setbacks from 20 feet to 15 feet. And it's important that we put this into context and look at the surrounding land, which is all zoned RSF4 with a 15 foot setback.
 So even if the existing homes are currently set back further, those landowners have the right to build new homes already on their land and they would have to be set back to 15 feet. So this would put these new structures in alignment with the existing property rights of adjacent parcels. Okay.
 It's important to reiterate that no significant trees are present or proposed for removal within this zone that we're talking about. So this will not affect the trees. What this will do is accommodate the grade change so that we can move the vehicles to the back of the development and take the cars off the street and make the houses the forefront of what we see so that this is a neighborhood for people, not cars. Um...
 So with that in mind, I will strongly support this request. Thank you. All right, thank you. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I wanna ask one question of staff before I share some comments. The vote when we did the rezoning, what was the vote tally on that? It was unanimous both on the Planning Commission and the Council. Okay, that's what I thought. I just wanted to make sure that got restated.
 So there was a request that anyone with a relationship at all with Specialized is close it. So I want to do that again, I think for the third time from the stand. It's true that I do have a relationship. They manage a property that I have a minority interest in.
 And I'm not going to recuse for tonight. You know our relationship there been some allegations that I might be on the take or be Be impartial, but our relationship doesn't work like that. They provide professional services property management services and
 for this property and frankly I think they do a great job. So in our transactions, it's me and my investors who are sending them payments, not the other way around. So I don't think my impartiality has been compromised at all. I'm certainly not conflicted.
 with respect to this particular uh decision um i i get the sense that um this is a uh small smaller issue that is standing in for um much larger and deeper concerns uh among uh any most of the people that are in opposition and i think that's a very natural thing um to
 to do. But also I think that it's our job to focus on the decision at hand. And for me what it came down to was the answer about about the legacy trees that are there on the street. I think those are incredibly important. And if our staff has scrutinized it and studied it as
 As closely as was described to us tonight and then determined that the trees aren't on Aren't under any threat then I don't see a compelling reason to deny the request and so I'm going to be voting for it Oh, mr. Mayor. Can I add something to to mr. Petty's comments? Of course this accusation against Council member Petty was brought up in court during the appeal of this particular ordinance same ordinance you're thinking about amending and
 I responded to that. I argued against that and the judge ruled in our favor. So in fact, we've looked at this issue already. The courts looked at this issue and the court did not find any substance to it. And the only other thing I want to say is that in regards to the bankruptcy court, we weren't there. We don't have any control of the bankruptcy court. We're not an appellate court to the bankruptcy court.
 If somebody thought there was a mistake or problem with the bankruptcy court, they should have appealed or appeared up there We really don't have anything to do. We've got to give them full faith and credit they are a legitimate court in the United States and I guess they agreed to sell the land to Mr. Mims and his group and that is a bankruptcy courts privilege and and Responsibility and it's really not for us to try to second-guess the United States Bankruptcy Court. I
 That's all I have. Okay. Sonia. Yes, thank you, Mayor. So my understanding is this is a question of that the amount of space that, because there was planned 20 feet for the beginning setbacks. So now there's...
 I'm confused as to why the back half, you know, it's shorter and we can't figure out the turning radius, you know. So I'm trying to understand if have we just figured, tried to look at every possible thing we can do to figure out the turning radius situation. I mean, I think we're just trying to say, you know, I'm just trying to. Okay. Garner, can you answer that?
 Or is that for the developer? That's probably a better answer by the developer. I think that's one of the issues. Sure, thank you. To answer the question, it really has to do with the relationship of the house to the street. And when we had the property entitled, there is...
 a designation of the street right-of-way whether the street was actually residential or local so when we did our entitlements we imposed a 20-foot setback from the street to the house during preliminary plat
 We found out a couple of things one The importance that those trees that are non-conforming in the right-of-way were extremely important to the neighbors So in working with the staff we made adjustments And quite honestly, this was never something that was brought up when we went through our entitlements so once we actually found out that
 that those legacy trees were planted by the neighbors, we made adjustments to eliminate on-street parking to be able to protect the trees. And when all of the right-of-way variances were, or the right-of-way dedication was established, the 20-foot setback pushed the house further back
 not affecting the trees at all i mean that we are compatible with the trees and what we're asking now is compatibility with the underlying zoning rsf4 to keep the house really where we intended the house to be so that there is appropriate relationship between the house the front porch the sidewalk we're trying to create a neighborhood that has a
 strong social element to it. So there is a relationship between the house and the sidewalk and the street and the rear loading of the house as Garner tried to explain is important to get the cars off of the street and put the cars behind the houses so it keeps and protects that integrity between the sociability of the neighborhood.
 So I'm not exactly sure if that answered your question. I guess it's more like the design question of figuring out all the possibilities so that we could get the cars to turn in. And I understand that. People have cars and they need to get in. But I'm just wondering if we've exhausted all the possibilities of getting the cars in the driveways without having to reduce this impact.
 I think what we actually have been working with staff is to, quite honestly, the most sensitive, elegant solution to compromise and come up with what we feel is
 the appropriate relationships. To answer your question, we took great gains into, or great pains into making that relationship appropriate. To deal with the rear load, to deal with the front setback, to protect the trees. So I think that to answer your question, a lot of work and effort actually went into the design that we have now. Thanks. Okay, Sloan.
 Okay, I guess I'd like to start by thanking everybody for coming. I'm really glad that Fayetteville has a lot of the rules it does. I'm glad we have the tree ordinances, the sign ordinances. I really remember that when I traveled to other places and see giant signs and basically no trees.
 I know it makes it difficult for some developers that we have a lot of these rules and I know that we don't have Crackle Barrel because of it and I'm pretty sure that we couldn't have Topgolf here as well. I'm glad that we don't have those things there. If Crackle Barrel wanted to be here with a smaller sign, I'd be okay with that. But I think we need to realize when are we being difficult to get rid of the things we don't want and when are we being difficult to just be difficult? And I think kind of,
 hammering down on a five-foot setback is being difficult to be difficult Specialized is trying to save those trees. I'm pretty sure if they're in the right away The city could tear them down as it is but they are coming up with something that says hey Can we save these trees and still put houses there? so
 When we're difficult to just stop something when it's a bigger issue, I don't think it gets rid of the developers We don't want I think it gets rid of the developers. They're small it gets rid of the developers They don't have big pockets and it gets rid of the developers That actually want to do the right thing and so I will be in support of this variance I know there's a lot of people that would bring great things to Fayetteville and
 And one of the things they tell me is we don't want to bring it because if we have to ask for a small variance to get the thing we have, they may say no, even though they said for an up zone later we could do it. This was specialized, didn't change. The designation of the road changed and now they're asking for a variance to deal with the fact that the designation of the road changed.
 So I'll be for it now on a slightly removed topic on saving Markham Hill Which I think is what everybody's here even though that's not what we're voting on this study has done great things for conservation and parks Lionel has worked through some really great deals some of which I didn't think we'd be able to do Lionel was able to save
 Lewis Park, he gave us Kessler Mountain, Centennial Park, in addition to Gully Park. He's done some impressive stuff for conservation. To make those conservation projects happen, they needed two pieces. They needed partnerships and they needed people on the grounds. In the case of Lewis, it was one person, it was Will Dockery.
 We have the people on the ground. I see them in here. What we need is a partnership. So if you're hoping to stop this development, try to go find a partner that wants to bring in the money to make this happen. So you get that partner. I trust the city would do what's necessary to make everybody happy, make the developer happy, make the neighbors happy, make a great park there. But right now, we don't have that partnership. So if I was telling somebody that did want to save Markham Hill,
 That's where the energy needs to be spent not trying to Make little variance is difficult. So thank you Thank you mayor, you know the way I see this is that specialized real estate group prides itself brands itself on being environmentally friendly in a conservation community and
 I'm glad that they actually took notice finally that those trees meant something and have agreed with a lot of public pressure to not cut them down. But that doesn't mean that they shouldn't change their design slightly and move those houses back. This having a 15-foot setback is not compatible with this neighborhood in any way and it is more of a stylistic decision
 rather than a pragmatic decision. I mean, if you want to be a good neighbor, you listen to the neighbors. And specialized real estate groups should have known that those trees had been planted by the neighbors, had been nurtured by the neighbors for many, many years. So I'm just questioning what other things have there been oversights of?
 I believe that this is the start of promises broken. They have a reputation that we've been hearing a lot about lately. We promise to preserve these acres. We promise to preserve these trees. And then as the process goes forward and the public is no longer paying as much attention, then those promises are broken, negated, forgotten.
 So I do think this is a big deal. I think a 20-foot setback is what they agreed to initially. They should stick to that. They should suck it up. And if they want to stick with that design, then they should go ahead and stick with the design, but stick with the 20-foot setback. This is a PZD. They chose the 20-foot setback. We, the city, did not impose it.
 It's a PCD. It's not an SF4. It is a 20-foot setback that they agreed to. So I hope that they will honor their original promise and keep it that way. Okay. Any other comments from the council? Yes. I have a question for Garner. When did the designation of the street change? With the 2040 plan. 2040 plan. Okay.
 And on these four lots in question, a couple of people have mentioned the cross-country track. Does the cross-country track go across these four lots? No. Okay. Do we have any other final comments from the council? Okay. Shall the ordinance pass? Caravans, please call the roll. Oh, I'm sorry. Did you have a comment you wanted to make, Kyle? No, I think we have to serve the final order.
 Yeah, we're there. I'm sorry, I thought this was just the second. Okay. It did. Okay. It says here it was left on the second reading, which means that
 I said I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading, and it passed. But I think we left it on the first reading. I'm just going by what I've got here. We'll just move it. Okay, if it's, if, I don't know. My recollection is that the motion that failed was to go to the second reading. Okay. I have here in my notes that it says it's on the second reading, correct?
 based on my understanding whenever this was brought forward last time it failed to move on to the second reading okay well then we're still on the second reading right now there was a motion that the opening of this meeting tonight to go to the third reading well okay and and so we'll need another motion to go to the third and final reading
 All right, then I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading So we have a motion to go to the third and final reading Sloan to be thorough Do we need to go to the second and then go to the third? I don't think you know basically we're gonna be on the second regardless Because if you all hadn't approved that I would just read the body of the ordinance, which is not very long. I
 So I think that accomplished going to the next reading. And now if we go to the third and final reading, there are many cities around the state that
 suspend the rules once and some said he's like Little Rock and doesn't even read the ordinance they just spend the rules read the title one time so I think if there's a good motion to suspend and go to the third and final reading if that gets the two-thirds majority vote then that's where we're at well that was my mistake because what I was reading was what was on the agenda which said this was left on the second reading I just assumed that it was on the second reading
 Second. That would be my mistake. I think that probably was just a typo there. But anyway, if you all want to go to the third and final reading, then you make a motion to that effect. If it passes, then we'll be on the third and final reading. Okay, I seconded that. Yes, so that has been a motion. Oh, let's vote on going to the third and final reading, I suppose, again.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, that passed and let me read it. In order to amend ordinance number 6096, which enacted commercial plan zoning district 18-6318, Pratt Place Inn and Barn at 2231 West Markham Road to reduce the front setbacks for planning area 2 along Cross Avenue.
 Okay, now what final comments do we have? All right, I will go ahead and make my comment now. I apologize for being not ready before because of the procedural things. So first I want to talk about why I'm willing to suspend the rules and go ahead because 
 no issue since I've been up here has received as constant and consistent feedback from a Group of people as this one. I think it's been multiple times a week from From a dedicated group of citizens who are very passionate about this project or passionate about stopping this project and
 And I don't want them to feel that they haven't been heard or listened to because I've read every single one of those emails that have come in in the last two plus years. But there hasn't been anything new since we decided the original question of the PZD and rezoning. And so I don't, we've heard again tonight and two weeks ago,
 There's just not any indication that we're getting new things to consider. So I'm ready to go ahead and vote on this tonight. And I will be voting for the PZD change because I supported the original development.
 to the quote from our code of ethics that mr karras read earlier we have a commitment to to work for the entire electorate and not just small groups of special interests not that neighborhoods are special interests we're all part of neighborhoods and we all care about our neighborhoods but
 but we have an entire city with a much larger housing concern that we talked about at length when we brought this when we discussed this years ago so this change is i think councilmember petty was made an astute observation it feels like a proxy issue for the bigger development and and the comments have borne that out
 The change itself is consistent, I think, with the intent that we had all along. There's technical details that change as plans develop and engineers review projects. We're going to hear a lot more about that as our engineers review bond projects, and we're going to cringe every time it happens, but it's just the reality of complicated projects.
 to to answer one of councilmember goudier's questions about were there other possibilities um i'm not going to try to speak for the developers as far as what they could and couldn't do but i know that at some of the um the planning commission meetings that was asked and discussed and they looked at some others and my understanding is that the way the way it is now with the current setbacks they could turn a 20-foot wide driveway onto you
 and run it 20 feet through the setback to the house. That might be one of the solutions that they could turn the driveway the other direction to avoid the turning radius. I don't think that makes this project better. I think adapting the setback to accomplish the intent that was stated all along, I think that makes the project better. It doesn't kill the project entirely, and that's what some folks want, but I think it's better.
 we've got to look at the incremental improvements where we can it would be silly to pass those up and take worst projects when something's going to happen so i think that that kind of covers my thoughts on this uh the small issue and some thoughts on the bigger issue as well but uh i will be voting for it okay any other final comments all right let's vote care which please call the road petty
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. That's five votes in favor, so it did pass. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go on to new business.
 Number one a resolution to prove the cost share agreement with double Springs development LLC for the upsizing of sewer line in the Goose Creek village subdivision with an amount not to exceed seventy two thousand nine hundred and seventy six dollars to be paid by The city of federal to approve a project contingency in the amount of fourteen thousand five hundred ninety five dollars and twenty cents Thank You mayor
 Double Springs Development LLC is developing the 126-acre Goose Creek Village Phase 1 subdivision on the west side of Double Springs Road in Farmington.
 They are required to install 1,220 feet of 8-inch sanitary sewer main for the development. The city's 2014 wastewater collection system measure plan recommends approximately 7,000 feet of 15-inch sanitary sewer main in that location to eliminate model predicate overflows and reduce surcharge in a sanitary sewer system under future build-out conditions through the year 2030.
 The 1,200 feet of sewer line represented in this cost share would complete approximately 20% of the recommended project. As you can see from the slide, when the entire pipe segment is completed, the City will be able to take the dock tipped and lift station out of service, thus removing the O&M costs associated with it. Additionally, the two Fayetteville land areas will have connectivity to the public sewer as well as Farmington projected growth to the west.
 Due to that, the utility requests participation in a cost share to pay the difference in upsizing the sewer line from 8-inch to 15-inch diameter sewer
 The developer received three bids for construction. Gene Reynolds, LLC being the lowest bidder at $72,976 difference. Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing account within the water sewer fund. This item was presented to the water sewer committee on January 14th with a four to nothing vote afforded to the city council for consideration. I would like to answer your questions. I'm sorry.
 Thank you. I appreciate you bringing a report tonight with some answers. Question on the Dot Tipton lift station. What  you said that we could take that offline with
 addition what kind of savings does that come out to well it would be the savings one of the electrical costs and Maintenance costs of going and checking the lift station make sure it's running I don't have a figure for you, but over time it would end up being substantial over time and there is a section of Fayetteville city limits further out to the west that still doesn't have sewer service with this extension be a
 be providing them access or setting them up for future access or is that a completely separate sort of brand I believe that this sections you're talking about would not be serviced by this lunch because the topography but the areas that are shaded would be able to have access to the sewer okay what public comment do we have on this
 Will Dockery, 4149 West Broad Street Lane. I don't have a problem with right-sizing a pipe and I thank staff for answering some of the questions. But in making sure we're prepared for our future, I don't have a problem with that. In fact, the reason I'm speaking here tonight is because I have concerns about our future and thinking about them and what we're doing on the west side. So my concerns here are threefold. Are we inducing greater demand for sprawl-like development, supercar centered on the far west side by building this 15-inch pipe?
 And that's demand not only in our city, but in neighboring towns. Number two, are we really prepared for all this demand? And number three, where are all of these future people who live out their work? I love Farmington and know several members of their town leadership very well, but they have different ideas on urban development than Fayetteville does. That's not to say there's just one way you can build a city. And that applies to all cities, just at Farmington by virtue of what it is and how it was founded has different growth pressures than Fayetteville does.
 And ideas on how to do that. However, I will say that Farmington doesn't have a true downtown and the majority of people who live there have to commute through Fayetteville to get to their jobs. Farmington has almost 1000 housing units currently in several stages of planning, and this current pipe extension will serve many of those and likely will induce demand for many more from Farmington.
 Furthermore, Fayetteville on the west side of the interstate has around 3,000 housing units that have been recently built or are currently in various stages of being planned. We viewed several of these last night as the Parks and Recreation Board and we approved what we did with the Parks and Recreation Board. What concerns me is how this induced demand from the increased
 infrastructure carrying capacity will continue towards the future and more importantly how fast that future is coming this isn't going to be if the economy continues the way it is this future is not going to be 10 years down the line it's going to be two to three years down the line um and this ties directly into what I got up last City Council meeting and talked about and asking for the neighborhood services to be placed back onto the future land use map it's just not
 dense enough and there's not enough jobs that are planned there. It's all residential planned. So don't get me wrong, this isn't a not in my backyard plea. This is a let's plan correctly plea. Let us make it walkable, not sprawlable. It seems to me that we need more services and job creation planned there and so while this pipe is really the thing we're talking about, this is kind of the secondary thing. Like what does this pipe end up doing?
 And it seems to me we need more services and job creation and density planned and zoned for the area inside the mayor's box along Ruppel between Weddington and MLK. So let's think about how seemingly small things like increasing a pipe to 15 inches are going to add a bunch of people to our town.
 and our neighboring towns and where they're going to be added like i said before farmington has no true downtown and almost 4 000 housing units are currently planned or being built between our two cities with several thousand more to come that's around 9 000 people if you use the 2.3 national average per unit
 I know that's changing, but that's still 9,000 people. So let's think about upzoning and increasing the density on Ruppel and the commercial center on Double Springs and Weddington to make sure we have easily reachable jobs, walkable jobs, and walkable services and won't add to the bottleneck of traffic that is Interstate I-49. Thank you. Thank you. What other public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm right back to the council. Did this go through the water and sewer committee? What was the vote? Okie dokie. All right. So...
 Matthew. Yeah, I wanted to thank my colleagues for asking some of the questions that were asked and transparently I'm kind of on the fence and wanted to implore Council Member Smith to make as affirmative a statement as he could about what he thinks is best for the city. So it would help me make my decision.
 Well, I was still trying to figure that out. So I'm going to make as wishy-washy a statement I can until I get some more questions answered and then hopefully I'll have some insight.
 So I want to first say that this the reason I pulled this off is not a water sewer issue I'm sure that the committee looked at it from a Water sewer system plan perspective, and I appreciate that perspective. I pulled it off because of land use questions It's just just a that's the I'm not on water sewer. I'm not as familiar with all of the needs there and
 I tend to approach things from a land use development transportation lens because that's the areas that I'm more involved in. And as it scrolls past our screen, I see we will discourage suburban sprawl. I believe in that one because I drive through the results of the suburban sprawl all the time. We've heard that story. That's what triggered my concern on this is not that
 we are making a responsible, irresponsible spending choice on a pipeline, but whether doing so now
 encourages sprawl, discourages sprawl, or just sort of leaves at status quo. So I guess I'm looking for some feedback from maybe planning staff, maybe water sewer folks about the bigger picture here and what we see this as in terms of that opportunity for action.
 Okay, I would be curious if the water sewer committee voted for to nothing on this. Why did you why was it supported? I mean, I'm just curious myself now. I mean, I just like to know Well, I just have a question for somebody who's on the water sewer. Okay, all right, Simone, take it away. Um, I
 I mean it seemed pretty reasonable as we're developing to make sure that the lines are big enough for future development. I absolutely agree with what Will said.
 Before I even got on City Council, I was talking more about Ward 4 than I was Ward 3 about trying to get some nodes out of RUPL that we've got to get some jobs out there. And how are we going to do that? I'm still asking those questions, and I bet I'll ask them a whole lot harder in 2020 than I did in 2019. How are we going to make that happen? Because it is a mess. It is a mess.
 That we will probably build another five to fifteen thousand houses between The west side of Fayetteville and Farmington and Prairie Grove and Lincoln and all those people are going to come in we've got to get jobs, but I also know we're gonna build houses or I
 Hopefully better we build some other developments and either way they're they're gonna produce sewage And they need a place for that to go. So whether we build houses out there, which I hope that's not the only thing we build Or we build mixed-use They produce sewer
 and they need sewer lines. So I hope to continue to have that question. I hope that, you know, that's not the end of this, but this is a pretty straightforward sewer line. Hopefully we can have those conversations another day. Okay. Sonny.
 Yes, thank you. It was the same thing. I'm on the modern tour committee. We've got the cost share You know they just saying that they're wanting to cost share it. It's already zoned to be developed and
 That's my understanding. And so it's going to happen. Either somebody else will come up and say they want a cost share to make sure it gets taken care of. I think maybe we need to  I appreciate the sentiment of, like, thinking of the land use, but if we can kind of think about that, maybe 
 with the next one going forward. But I'm understanding that they already can do their development. They need this to complete it, and so they're willing to share the cost. So that's kind of why we moved it forward. Okay. That's good. Sure. Thanks. I also have concerns about sprawl enabling, and I feel like we're at risk here because
 it sounds like we've got a couple council members that might be um on the fence and maybe it would be best if we held this um until our next meeting to have a chance to really make sure that we all understand the implications of this and can make a good decision because i i would prefer to hold on to it for um one more meeting okay teresa
 Well, I'm never one to discourage more thought in the process and more deliberation. So I would support that. But being on the Water and Sewer Committee, this just looked like, you know, upsizing the pipe. We didn't discuss the land use and development. But I do want to recall, help the Council remember that I think it was last year or the year before,
 that there was a commercial zoning right there on RuPaul and we changed that commercial zoning and so that houses could be built right there on RuPaul and and I am very much for the creation of neighborhood nodes out there and and jobs out there. Absolutely. But
 that you know businesses have to want to go and develop in that in those areas uh we can't force that we can encourage it but we kind of are where we are in terms of the business community and um so I I'm all for holding it for another week if there's or two weeks if more deliberation is needed okay we don't have a motion in the second class so
 That's one. I'll give that to . Yeah, I will. I usually, this might be the first time I agree with Theresa Turk outside of the rest of the council. I do have a question before we table.
 What is the timeline for the developer? Because I don't want them to go ahead and go, okay, we'll put in a smaller pipe because you're taking too long to decide. The emphasis for this particular upsizing is a development in farming, and I do not know the answer to that. I do know
 that that involved a change of zone and the state law required City Council to review it for compatibility which you did and approved it so I think that's the immediate issue is the subdivision just west in Farmington it would perhaps also open up
 some possibilities for connections in Fayetteville, as Tim mentioned. On a larger view, not to punt tonight, but I think this is right in the center of the 2040 action item, which is we really need to take a long, hard look at our planning area and what tools are available
 to promote orderly growth in the planting area. And of course the pipe is one of those tools that most communities use. Mitigating against that idea is the fact that we're providing services to Farmington. So we're kind of in between here in terms of using water and sewer to manage our growth. Shlomo.
 Seems like you want to speak. Yes, sir. I just want to say that right now there is no sewer line at all. There's a force that runs through there. This would be a gravity. So to fulfill the requirements of this specific subdivision, an 80-inch line would be sufficient.
 When you look at the future land growth and just me and water sewer nuts and bolts looking at the shaded areas and we looking at the Master plan a 15 inch line is Recommended 7,000 feet to cover this whole area So that's what we were looking at saving money by up sizing from an 8 to 15 is saving substantial amount of money Rather than us having to go back later and install a 15 inch sewer line But but we don't know if
 we'll lose the option in two weeks. I don't know the answer to that. I can certainly find out, but I don't know tonight. In two weeks. I think it's reasonable, but if we want a table, we'll table it. Okay, well. Okay, I'll let somebody else make the table if they're going to. Okay, Kyle. Hang on, Tim. I got a couple more questions that came up when you were talking. So my understanding is that the...
 The small line would get built regardless and it would be done on the developers Expense that's correct. Okay, so we're not we're not talking about leaving anybody without sewer We're talking about about 70,000 plus on whether we just build in capacity for the future. That's that's correct. Okay and
 So this is, we've done a lot of talking about Ruple and the need for jobs there and the housing that's going to go on the land there. This is more than two miles out past Ruple. This is a lot farther out there than Ruple. This is past Devil Springs. So I think that's almost a whole other world of sprawl we're talking about there. So I guess I'm...
 The 70,000 we spend now is as a savings for what we might spend later. Is that an expense that's Imminent and coming very soon or is that an expense that? likely we won't incur unless we choose to build it now because without I think like Arnott was alluding to without the pipe in the Ground people are going to look at it is too expensive because they have to provide it later Is that how does that kind of calculation and push and pull stimulus work? I?
 Well, I think what possibly would happen is as development occurred you would get eight-inch lines and you get to a point in the future where the eight-inch line is not enough and someone is going to have to go in and upsize the line for the full length and I'm sure that would probably be the utility to do it at that point. Well, but at that point in time we'd have to go back and build our part of that larger line, wouldn't we? We couldn't make the last person who could survive on an eight-inch line that can't with everything else coming down
 we wouldn't be able to constitutionally require that developer then to go back and rebuild this line much bigger. That would be our expense for at least the part that's already in the ground. Correct. So there would be a cost to the city. Okay. I had another thought but I think it slipped out so I will see if it comes back.
 Thank you. I'm not going to vote to table tonight, but of course that's wishes of the whole council. That's fine I feel like my mind is made up and I'll feel like it's made up with some reservations, but in any case I won't support the request and
 And that's on the basis of the explanation we just got, which is of course that we can't force the last person on the capacity to pay for the upgrade. But I think that's exactly the central contention, which is that perhaps not having the capacity there in the first place prevents the developments enabled by the capacity from occurring at all.
 Okay, I figured out my last question Can we put the map back up that had the different areas that would be fed by and what I'm going to ask It may you'll have to help me with this map Where are the fatal Farmington city limits here? Okay, so it looks like it would serve a lot of fable area that we're responsible for planning and a little bit of Farmington area that they're responsible for planning is that I?
 That's correct, okay If this were serving the majority of Farmington where they're going to make the development decisions anyway without a whole lot of our input I think I would Probably yield to support it because I doubt they they have the same priorities we do but I think I'll probably vote no just just for the sake of Future pressure on that boundary area I
 Okay, well let's go back to square one. We need a motion in a second to pass it or table it or something. Actually I have a question for Garner. On this map can you show us where Ruppel Road is? Pardon me? Where is this in relation to Ruppel Road?
 Are we way out past it? Like it's not even on this map? Yes. And we've really tried to establish that the Rubell Road area is going to be our urban growth boundary? Council Member, this is Broyles. That's Broyles. Okay, so that's past Rubell. Okay, with that in mind, I think that's part of our enduring green network, and I'm not real interested in adding more capacity out there, so I will be voting no if we vote for this tonight. All right. Well, it looks like we're ready to go then.
 So what we have is a resolution. Now, I need something to either table this thing or somebody make a motion to pass it and get a second and everybody go down or something. Slama. Move to approve. Okay. Do we have a second? Son. Second. Okay. Final comments. All right. Let's vote. Excellent. The button. Okay. There we go. All right. Sorry. Let's vote. Here. Please call the roll.
 yes Scroggins no yes bunch yes Turk yes Smith no Gutierrez yes Marsh no mayor there are four votes in favor it requires five votes to pass do you care to vote I'm gonna vote yes all right then the resolution passed all right
 In order to sway the requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of up-fit items from Assembled Products Corporation DBA JATO Desk for Police Department Patrol Vehicles. Kent. Whereas to maintain uniformity throughout the Police Department's patrol vehicles, city staff recommends continuing to purchase up-fit items manufactured by Assembled Products Corporation doing business as JATO Desk.
 And whereas purchasing directly from the manufacturer will allow the city to save on the cost of these items because the fleet division is an authorized installer and we receive warranties directly from the manufacturer rather than paying for installation and warranty costs to distributors.
 And whereas a manufacturer informed the city by letter, a copy of which is attached to the staff memo, that if bids are taken for these items, it will not submit a bid due to conflicts with its distributors, which would prevent the city from achieving savings on these upfit items. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of up-fit items from Assembled Products Corporation doing business as JADO desk for police department patrol vehicles. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The JADO desk manufacturer is...
 the company that supplies many of our items that we use in our police vehicles.
 and we are able to purchase these items directly from the manufacturer, and in doing so, we save a lot of cost in that. And if we were to take this to bid, the manufacturer would be bidding against their own vendors, and so obviously they would not want to bid against them. And so for that reason, we are requesting a bid waiver, so that we can continue saving our cost and,
 keeping our manufacturer and warranty representative through John Odess directly okay what questions do we have okay what public comment do we have okay yes I move we approve the ordinance we what I move we approve though it's not I gotta go to the second reading I got this one okay I'm gonna go to the second reading
 We have a second. Yes, Kyle. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of upfit items from Assembled Products Corporation doing business as Jotto Desk for police department patrol vehicles. Sonny.
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Kerwood. Oh, yes. Kerwood, please call the vote. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of up-fit items from Assembled Products Corporation doing business as a JADO desk for police department patrol vehicles.
 Okay, what final comments do we have from the council? Okay, looks like we're ready to vote. Carol, would you please call the roll? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, number three. An ordinance to approve vacation 19-6948 property located southwest of Mount Comfort Road and Rupert Road to vacate a portion of a drainage easement. Kip?
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the flying described portion of a general utility easement or drainage easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section 1 that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby vacates a portion
 of a drainage or general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's agenda memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 Yeah, Mayor, as Kit's ordinance explains, the proposal is to vacate an unused and unneeded drainage facility. It was a concrete facility taking water to Hamstring Creek. The new facility uses the infrastructure that was built with the completed Ripple Road bypass, so it takes it down to Hamstring Creek.
 No need was identified for this easement and planning staff and planning commission recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Garner on this? I should note that there was a scrivener's error in the original here that's in front of you talking about a general utility easement. That's going to be changed to drainage easement and I will make that change tomorrow assuming you pass this. Everybody good? Okie dokie. What public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, go right back to the council. Kyle. Motion we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Lisa. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Everyone please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Funch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 In order to approve the BAC 19-6948 for a property located southwest of Mount Comfort Road and Rufo Road to vacate a portion of a drainage easement. Okay, Teresa. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carowich, please call the roll. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Terrace. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 In order to approve the AC 19-6948 for property located southwest of Mount Comfort Road and Rupert Road to vacate a portion of a drainage easement. Any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number four, thank you all an ordinance to approve vacation 19-69 47 Properly located at 411 East Maple Street to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement kit Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portions of a water and sewer easement and rights of way are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 City Council City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the water and sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance is duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that a 10-foot wide water and sewer easement is retained along the property's western boundary.
 Mayor, the lot in question is located between Walnut and Olive, south of Maple. The request is to vacate a water and sewer easement. It's kind of an unusual vacation request. It's a private sewer line. The issue that was discussed at the Planning Commission is the applicant is amenable to
 Vacation Hall except seven feet of the western edge of the property. There's a blanket easement on this property and it has existed since the 1940s. Without getting too wonky into planning issues regarding easements, obviously easements didn't mean the same thing in 1940 as they do now.
 This is an illustration of the blanket easement that was placed and houses were built on top of it. So I think the signal was that the easement was to provide utilities to the houses. And it was a little bit more of an informal relationship. So getting down to the recommendations
 My understanding is the applicant is agreeing to seven feet. Utilities common practice is to have at least 10 feet. So if you get the other 10 feet on the other lot, you would have 20 feet to maintain that
 Staff recommends a 10-foot as requested by the utilities department and the Planning Commission recommends retention of 5-foot easement. The director of utilities is here if you have questions for him and I believe the applicant, Mr. Wayne Moore is also here and I think he wants to talk to you about it. Okay, would the applicant like to address the council? I'm Wayne Moore and I'm the owner of the property of 411 East Maple Street.
 I was under the assumption that we actually were going to talk about a five-foot easement that had been recommended by the Planning Commission. A little quick history, it's an easement that again 1941 was never utilized. The easement has sat there for what, 80 years now. There have been, the easement encompasses about a half a block, maybe a block.
 There have been homes that have been built on top of the easement. There have been homes that have been built on top of the private sewer line that's actually servicing those homes. There have been building permits issued by the City of Fayetteville inside the easement with no attention given to the easement itself over the past years.
 When I bought the property in August, I called the city just to get the kind of get the information on what the building requirements were, trying to confirm setbacks, etc. And I was told there was an easement there and I said I'm looking at a current survey with no mention of an easement. I'm looking at a disclosure by the realtor and the owner that says they had no knowledge of an easement. What easement are you talking about? And that's when I've got people go back several
 The one that encompasses the whole block. I got this from the city I think it actually encompasses nine Lots and my guess is short of the gentleman that moved there in 1939 no one knows there's an easement there and literally if you can see the for the the sewer line It feeds the four homes of the four homes three of them are actually built on top of the sewer line and my guess is Portion of those owners don't even know that there's a sewer line there. There's an easement there so
 All this comes back and the sewer department says, I need 10 feet because I need 20 feet. I'm going to take 10 from your neighbor. I said, hold on now. I don't feel like it's my duty to give up 10 feet for an easement when you've got a private sewer line and a city easement that was never used. The easement is for the benefit of the city. It's not for the benefit of the poor people with a private sewer line running through their yards.
 I said, I understand they have to have sewer, but they can go to the curb like we all have. It's a sewer line that I'm assuming is close to 80 years old, or 60 years old, excuse me. No, 80, 80 years old. So in talking with the sewer department, quite frankly, I was scared they were going to take 10 feet of my lot. You know, I have a 60-foot lot, so it matters. And I was trying to strike some type of bargain just so I could come out with,
 not quite a big a haircut. And I said, well, how about seven? And the sewer department never agreed to seven. When I came before the planning commission, we talked about it. And basically, the agreement was that it's a cluster. There's a lot of things that are wrong with how all this is taking place over the last 80 years. And probably the people that made these agreements, they're probably no longer with us.
 But at the end of the day, making a bad decision doesn't, it's just another, to put 10 feet on me and frankly to take 7 feet from me doesn't correct just a slew of 80 years of bad decisions when it comes to my private property. What I agreed to do was, you know, if you wanted to take the 5 feet, which is basically my setback, my side yard setback is 5 feet. And the planning commission, which I thought was, you know...
 very practical decision was let's just leave let's set the easement within the setback the gentleman on this side of me just finished his construction and The city failed to mention that there he was building in a sewer easement. So he didn't So basically he's pretty close to being built on top of these and himself but if you take keep the five feet on my setback and
 And someday, if this line ever has to be replaced, you could take five, I'm sure you could work within his setback, which is five feet. But the reality is, guys, that if this sewer line ever has to be replaced, it's not going to be replaced in its current position. It makes no sense for a six-inch sewer line to be sitting there down on property lines. They need to go to the street.
 and they've got room on their prospective property to take it to the street. I just don't feel like it's my job to take my frontage for a sewer line that's 80 years old, a private sewer line on my property that doesn't service my house, and I don't think it's fair for the city to ask for part of my property when it's not for the benefit of the city.
 So it's complicated, but at the end of the day, I don't think taking 10 feet or 7 feet is right. I'm okay with leaving the easement within my setback because I can't build in it anyway. And if the line has to be serviced, there are plenty of ways to service that line, but taking 10 feet from me when it comes time to replace that line, not going to do them any good. I can't do the work in 10 feet. There's 80 years of stuff growing down that
 Found that property line, there's rock walls, there are fences, there are huge trees. Just won't work. It's not practical. So, any questions? What questions do we have? Who determined all this? Tim? Garner? Who? The Utilities Department asked for the 10 feet.
 So, Tim. How are you, Tim? I'm good. I'm Wayne. Nice to meet you. Please explain how this all rolled. Did it, did it, did this go to the water and sewer committee or? No, it didn't. Okay. It's an unusual condition where we're actually vacating the entire easement and trying to leave a portion of the easement for the sewer line because of the easement that was granted in the 40s.
 Our standard is 20 foot easement to work on a sewer line. You start reducing lower than that, I mean you're talking about equipment fixing, you're going to have to do things differently and it's going to be moving your spoils out to the street, not being able to put them to the side. Yeah, this is a very busy easement, but if the past never predicts the future, a private sewer line probably will be a public sewer line sometime in the future.
 When you talk about sure we can move all the services to the curb in that location there, we'd have to really survey, but it sure looks like all those houses would have to pump to the sewer if they were going to get to the main out in the street.
 A property owner has a right to build right up to the easement and so if the easement is right next to the sewer line, if we damage or trespass, we're liable for any damages that would have to be paid for with public funds. So we try to get the standard of getting a 20 foot easement on all sewer easements so there's enough room to work and do the job and be safe.
 What questions do I have for Tim on this? Could I have a couple questions, Mayor? Sure, absolutely. Obviously, I think we don't allow this kind of development anymore where private sewer lines are running into a larger private sewer line.
 before it ever gets to our sewer main. Is that correct? We do not do that anymore, no. It's all the corrections that we've made from years past. And that would, because obviously there could be terrible problems too when you have an old line like this where it could back up in somebody's house and it wouldn't be our sewage, it would be their sewage, whoever. And so they could have real issues between the homeowners there about what's happening and...
 And who's going to fix it? The issue would be that, you're correct, it wouldn't be the city sewer line, but you would have sewage out on the ground, which would be a public health hazard, and something definitely would have to happen. So somebody would have to act quickly on this. The other option, I guess, for the council here is if they did not want to allow this condition to continue, then they would simply vacate the entire area.
 blanket easement and tell everybody they have to hook up to the main in front of the house but as you said that's probably going to require pumps, which I think all the Current owners that are not using pumps might not be overjoyed about it But is that really the only other option we have to have either an easement big enough that we can work on it or else require everybody to pump to this sewer maintenance in front of their house and
 That's true, and I'll say probably on the pumping because we haven't surveyed it and shot it. But yes, each one of those homeowners would have to reverse the direction of their sewage flow and send it to the street. So there's really not an easy option here, but I thought you should probably know what the two options were.
 If in the future if we ever have to go in and fix it ourselves We certainly won't need an easement for it and we'll be installing a new sewer main at I guess our costs So it's it's a kind of complicated situation for you These are I'm not looking for precise calculations here just ballpark If we were to replace those and run them out to the curb, how long would that take? I
 Well, it would be the responsibility of the homeowner to install the pumps and run the services out to the street. We provide the sewer taps. We could do all those fairly quickly. But if they were to do that, I mean, are they looking at days, weeks? I just don't have a frame of reference for a project like that. I would say a couple of weeks for one residence. And it would cost?
 I wouldn't want to stand here and say how much it would cost, but it would take a grinder pump and a wet well. Tens of thousands per house, their cost. How much did you say? That's a continuing expense, too, because those pumps will break down every time. Okay, thanks. I just kind of want to know the consequences of some of the different scenarios that have been tossed out. And just so you all know, a lot of these are breaking down across town.
 where they've had these and then the homeowners are having to replace them. It is significant. Not right now. Hang on.
 I just want to clarify your comment. So you're talking about when they're breaking down Are you talking about the pumps? Are you talking about the private sewer line? There's been there's some of these older neighborhoods are all Align and all the houses go to a line and then when it breaks down then the homeowners are responsible That's true that old the old private sewer lines are the old Orangeburg collapse upon themselves and
 Cause a big problem for the homeowners and I'm thinking I remember at least two A few thousand dollars per homeowner to replace Easy I don't say a few thousand. It could be Expensive. I don't know whether it's pumps or whatever I just know that they just tell me what the cost is going to be for homeowner And I used to get to talk to the homeowners so
 I got a couple of questions for the applicant, and I think he had something he wanted to add. Mr. Moore, I think I was sitting back there next to you at the Planning Commission. I'm glad to see you're getting around a little better this time. Yes, better. I'm just still trying to wrap my head around how you got into this mess. I'm sorry that we're in it. You said you called the city. Was that before or after you bought the property? That would have been after. After. And this didn't show up on any of the 
 the real estate transaction stuff? Did not. Okay. It's in our GIS. So that was, I'm just trying to figure out how that, what kind of title research was done. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Sloan. When they do surveys, there is errors in emissions insurance. So you may want to talk. Yes. The seller lives in England, and that's not England, Arkansas. That's England, the country. Yeah, but was there an actual survey done?
 excuse me was there an actual survey done there was okay uh surveyors have errors in a mission serve yes sir he's got that little cya language down at the bottom anyway one can yeah thank you so again here's where i find myself i i consider myself a practical guy i haven't i'm all for my neighbors being able to flush their commodes that's that's not what this is about for me i'm
 I'm in total shock that this is here. I can tell you that I understand his position that what, I guess, the way they do business. We're asking 10 from everybody. I need 20 feet to work. It's just not practical here. If he took 10 from me, he can't get 10 from the neighbor. The neighbor's built seven feet within the fence. There's a tree that's got to be 100 years old sitting right on this property line.
 And I don't understand why he wants 10 feet from me to repair a sewer line when two of the four people that are being serviced by their sewer line, they've actually built their homes have been expanded and they're sitting on top of the sewer line. So I don't understand why they want 10 feet from me when the people that are actually being serviced by this line couldn't give them 10 feet if they'd asked for it. They'd have to tear their house down.
 And I also say this, I'm a home builder. I mean, I build in the Heights in Little Rock, Arkansas, where it's just like this kind of neighborhood. These homes are old. My guess is that the sewer line servicing these homes is clay tile. It's not ductile. It's not steel. My guess is these lines are about shot anyway, if I was a guessing guy. They're 80 years old. They're probably full of tree roots.
 All that stuff. So, in my business, when somebody's sewer line goes down, or when we remodel homes, we typically tear the clay tile sewer lines out anyway. And we're reestablishing new sewer service for that particular home. And when you do that, again, you take it to the curb. It's not rocket science. It's fairly easy to do. It would be a lot easier for these people to take their sewer to the curb when the time comes, versus tear down my neighbor's garage
 tear down two houses, and knock down a 100-year-old tree and then tear up everybody's rock wall for these four homes. It's just not a practical solution to it. And that's what the planning commission saw. The only practical thing to do is let them, if they need to service this line, understand that. They've got things. They've got clean outs in place to service this line. This line has been repaired as little as five years ago. They basically went into one of the neighbor's yard
 who is serviced by this line. They put in a clean-out. They swabbed out the line. There is a clean-out on Maple Street where they can rod this line out as best as they can. It's not a long-term solution, but it's a way to keep the lines serviceable. But at some point, the reality is these people will have to replace their sewer lines, just like everybody else in the Masonic area has had to replace their sewer lines. They're just not going to last for 80 years plus.
 So I go back to, I understand all of that. I don't think it's fair to take 10 feet or 7 feet out of my buildable property. My lot's only 60 feet wide. It matters. It matters. That's why I'm okay if they leave an easement. It's more than, I mean, I've got a setback. I'm okay with them putting an easement inside my setback. So if somebody needs to walk up and down my yard to try to service this line, they can do that.
 It doesn't give them the room to bring in a backhoe, but again, 10 feet is not going to give them enough room to break in a backhoe because he can't go into my neighbor's yard. There's trees. There's fences. His carport is seven feet. Again, I go back. If they're going to replace the line, they're going to have to tear down two of the four houses to get to that line. It's complicated. Again, one more bad answer doesn't right 
 Everything that's happened for this easement to be sitting here. Again, the city has issued building permits in this easement without telling anybody else that there's an easement there. I don't know why I'm the poster boy, but here I stand. Just doesn't seem right to me. So anyway.
 With all due respect Okay, I Seriously doubt we're gonna come to a resolution tonight. So I Don't think we've had public comment. I don't think there's gonna be any but we should go ahead and move there I would like this to just roll over to the second reading and I feel like we need to research this a little more Not tonight. Okay I Had a question for the applicant. I
 Have you spoken to your neighbors about this situation? Yes. And what has their kind of response been? Well, I talked to the gentleman to my immediate north, I guess, west, north. He's 405 East Maple. He's a gentleman who just finished remodeling his home, and when he pulled his permit, no one at the city told him that there was an easement there.
 and they have permitted it. He's moved in. He's got a CO, and he's the gentleman that, again, if you took 10 feet from me and wanted 10 feet from him, you'd have to tear his carport down. I talked to the gentleman that moved into this neighborhood. He was here. He was very supportive. He understood the complexity of it, but he's a gentleman that moved into the neighborhood in 1939.
 And as I said then, I'll say it now, he may have been one of two or three people in the city of Fayetteville that actually knew there was an easement there. He was the one that actually brought it to my attention. And he actually, when I sent out the notice, he was the one person I think that actually called the city and said, hey, there's a private sewer line there. I might add, the sewer department actually signed off on this initially and then withdrew that and said, wait a minute, there's an easement there. We need 10 feet.
 But have you talked to your other neighbors, like in 444, 424, 414? Because, you know, whatever decision we make, they may be affected by. Sure. We have spoken with, I've spoken to two of the five people that are involved in this. Actually, I would be the sixth. So three, half of us know about it.
 in terms of this. I've given them notice as required by the CFA bill. I've actually given them two notices. I sent a mailing out a little too early, so the city asked me to send another mailing out. So everybody's actually got two notices of what I'm doing. And did the other two neighbors have an opinion, share an opinion with you? There's been, to my knowledge, there's been no public comment. I've worked pretty closely with Abdul in permitting and and to my knowledge there has been no other comment.
 thank you I'll take some public comment and then I certainly would like to hold two weeks I'd like to have some questions answered that I have mr. I'd like to say that during if this does
 Delay for two weeks, and we will take the time and see on those four houses against Walnut Street to see if they would have to pump or if they could gravity flow. It would make a big difference in the cost. Yes, I'd like to know the cost. I think the homeowner brings up a good point. If we take 10 feet of his property, we can't take 10 feet of the other people's property.
 i don't know how you're going to get 20 feet there is that yes i certainly respect what he's saying and he respects what i'm saying what we're trying to do here is get enough room to actually work so i understand his point as well okay
 I think you're making a wise decision to leave it on this reading. We've had this sort of issue before. We've been sued over this issue before where we didn't think it was our line, and the jury disagreed and said, oh, it was, and so now you've got to buy somebody's house. So this is sometimes when you try to be nice to the uphill sewer people,
 It doesn't always work out. And so sometimes it's better to bite the bullet and have the people connect properly, not to a private service line but to our main. I know that that will cost money, but it costs money to do that. I just replaced a service line, a private service line I have. It cost me $16,000. But when you have to get sewer done, you have to get sewer done. And so I bit the bullet and paid the money.
 So sometimes that that happens and I think that I'm glad you're waiting to take a real close look at this whole situation Okay Okay, so we're gonna leave it right here Two weeks Interesting. Okay. Well, let's move on to number five. Shall we?
 An ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled R.P.Z.D. 19-68-58 for approximately 7.90 acres located at 2673 North Collette Avenue to allow the development of 51 attached and detached dwelling units. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves RPCD 19-68-58, as described in Exhibits A and B and C attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, which allows the development of 51 attached and detached dwelling units in Planning Areas 1 and 2 with a center green and a detention pond maintained by the Development's Property Owners Association in Planning Area 2.
 Section 2 that the official zoning map the city of Fayetteville's hereby approved reflect the zoning criteria change provided in section 1 above Yes mayor this Eight slightly under eight acre parcel is in one ownership. It has one home on it presently it is located south of old wire and
 by Colette Avenue and Magnolia. It is immediately west of Gully Park. This council, I don't think you've had a request for a new plan development. I took the liberty of taking some of the language out of the purpose why we do planned zoning districts
 I wanted to point out the City Council may consider any of the following factors in view of a planned zoning district application. Flexibility, compatibility, harmony, variety, non-negative impacts, coordination, open space, natural futures, future land use plan, special futures, recognized zoning considerations. Conceptual plat, this shows the proposed development, the small lot, single family, and a few duplexes.
 It is surrounded by RSF4 zoning and the park, of course, and single family homes. A little bigger version of the conceptual plat. Incidentally, the plan development, plan zoning district allows concurrent submissions. The applicant took advantage of that and submitted a preliminary plat to the planning commission and that preliminary plat has already been approved.
 It was approved contingent on the entitlements being granted by this planned zoning district. So it has three planning area. Think about it as a custom, three custom zoning districts. Planning area one allows single family homes. Planning area two allows single family and duplexes.
 Planning area three is open space. So it is kind of the organizing open space in the middle of the planned development. It's important both for drainage, the drainage is proposed to flow into a detention pond, and it's also important due to the fact there are large oak trees on the northern end of it.
 There's a little over acre proposed for dedication to the Gully Park and they propose a connection, a trail connection to Gully Park. Adopted plans, it's designated as residential neighborhood area in the 2040 plan and as you remember that that designation encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density where appropriate.
 So the issues that were discussed at Planning Commission were density, is this density appropriate, the park dedication, parks department staff is in favor of this dedication. Gully Park is heavily used and additional land would be welcome from their perspective. The street extension, a variety of lot sizes and housing types.
 And the architectural concepts. This is a planning zoning district. The applicant did submit architectural concepts and when building permits are issued, we do look at those concepts. We don't literally apply them, but they need to stay within the general guidelines of the architectural concepts. Planning Commission staff recommend approval
 I believe the applicant's representative, Mr. Joe Pfeiffer, is here, and I would also be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Would the applicant like to present that, and then we'll just get questions for both the staff and the applicant. Is that all right? Okay? Everybody okay? Yes, please. Good evening, council members, mayor. My name's Clay Morton, and I'm the applicant. Okay.
 Just a quick overview of the project, really excited about it. We spent a lot of time with the city staff working on the layout with the 2030 city plan in mind. Also just to highlight a couple things that have been said, but one acre park dedication on the southwest corner of the property. The houses that are along Gully Park will have double fronts so to face the park,
 So if you're at the park and you're looking in the neighborhood, those houses will look like the front with front porches, front doors, walkways. There's a public access easement all the way from Collette all the way through the property to the park, which will allow neighbors on the east of this proposed subdivision to be able to get to the park. We're not allowing any privacy fences here.
 within the subdivision, but black wrought iron fences are allowed and just want it to feel open, inviting and visually appealing. The pocket park within the center of the subdivision, the houses that are along that have alleys, so those houses will actually front on that pocket park to create community space. So those houses are basically sharing a front yard. As stated, we'll be connecting Collette
 There currently is a dead end road. It's been dead. It's been a dead end road for a long time. I will be connecting Colette up, connecting the sidewalks that run along there. The houses that are on Colette will also face Colette. So again, trying to create not a subdivision that's separate from the neighborhood that's there, but make it feel inviting from the neighborhood, the neighbors and the houses that are even on Colette.
 Also, the houses within this area, there's not a lot of new houses that are smaller in size. And so the house size that we're planning to build is 1,300 square feet to 2,500 square feet. So we hope to have a lot of different people living there. So that's the reason for the smaller size, so kind of attainable housing. And, I mean, that's pretty much it. I'm from Fayetteville. I live in Fayetteville. I live in Fayetteville.
 I care deeply about Fayetteville, and I want Gully Grove to be something that the city is very proud of when it's finished. So thank you. If you've got any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Okay. What questions do we have for the council, for the applicant, or the staff? Okay. Then what public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. The first thing I want to say is I appreciate the developers bringing a PZD. A lot of times when we look at up zones people are like what's going to be there and we can't talk about that.
 So I appreciate that. I know that that comes with extra risk. The pretty renderings aren't free. There's cost involved, but I think that's the proper way to do these developments that are kind of inside of developments that have been built and kind of older mature.
 I know that going the PZD route is probably the appropriate one. I've had a lot of emails about this over the last couple months. I've seen it go through parks. I've seen it go through the Planning Commission. I know that there's been changes based on input.
 But the fact that we don't have anybody here tonight, and I know that they know it's tonight, says that the neighborhood is probably not fully okay with it, but they're a lot more okay than if you just said, hey, we're going to build eight units per acre here. So I appreciate going through that process. Okay.
 I actually drove on the road several times in the last month, specifically when traffic was going to be bad, to see how bad it would be trying to get on old wire. Coming out on Colette, you actually have a really good view going right and left. I made sure of that when traffic was heavy, when people were going to be leaving.
 the volume of traffic this would bring to that road. I'm also glad that there's some drainage and that y'all have worked through those conversations. I'll definitely be in support of this. And like I said, I appreciate the PCD. I know it comes with extra risk, but I wish more developers would go that route so that they feel a little more comfortable before we actually make a vote. Thank you.
 I have a question about the at the top it's planning area one it's lot 53 and I believe that it's going to be a green space is that correct I guess that's a question for the applicant I'm Joe Pfeiffer with Crafts and Tools
 I mean it's hard to tell but yes the lot you're referring to is the long skinny uh lot on the northern on the northern side yeah that was uh the lot that had the majority of the big oak trees that you know just process we worked with.
 with uh urban forestry and that's an area another area set aside for uh tree preservation okay so it won't be a lot that will be buildable it will be preserved the color through the changes it was originally going to be lots um it just should be bright green versus the yellow okay thank you i really um i think this is a well thought out um
 development and I really appreciate their attention to detail and I agree with Sloan that the PCD is I'm pleased that they chose to go that way I like the idea of having the dedicated pathway that goes through the Development so that it allows people that live on the streets back behind this to connect to the park in an easier fashion I
 I would like to apologize to staff because I called for us to go tour this site, and then I did not show up. So I got busy, and I just forgot about it. I really feel bad about that, but it's not like me to forget something like that. But I am very familiar with this location. This is my part of town, and I drive this neighborhood quite a lot, and in this area. I do think that any concerns with traffic 
 everybody's not going not going to have to feed out onto excuse me old wire road they can also come back through the neighborhood a little bit and hit Township or hit crossover road if that if that helps them out too so but I'm in favor of this proposal thank you okay so you all know Sonia
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to commend Clay because I feel like I got to meet with him, and the main questions I had was have you talked to the neighbor's
 What's happening with the water? Which direction is the water flowing? Have you thought about that? Are those people that are on the south going to get bombarded with all the water that's going to be happening from the runoff? He had answers for everything. He had met with the neighbors. He was interested in trying to figure out a drainage situation there.
 I also appreciate the park piece. So I feel like you've got a really great example of how we want to get things done, and you help to resolve all the mystery that people have with projects. I just want to commend you for that and setting a really great example. So I'll definitely be supporting the project. Yeah, I would like to ask a question. I mean, I was curious about the drains when I toured that yesterday. It looked like a relatively...
 significant drop from where we parked to the end. That's why I asked you all what was the drop on that which was about 18 feet. I went back today and looked and over from the northwest corner the property drains from the northwest to the southeast and it's actually a 35 feet of drop over 800 feet which comes out to be about 5% fall across the site. So I guess what I was
 I just was just curious on how you were going to drain away from the back of those houses. I mean, I'm just more curious. I really like your development, by the way, and I love the PZD, but I was a little bit concerned about the drop going to the back of those houses. I don't want to create any. I'm just curious how you're going to address that. Yes, sir. The lots along the southern portion are actually built up to where 
 Pretty much everything from the back of the house to the road is kicked back. And then kick over to the... Yes, sir. That's what I thought. No, I actually have a downspout collection also. Yeah, I kind of thought if I was building, that would be... Yeah. And realistically, because of the way that it's going to be built up,
 The homes that are along the southern portion will actually be receiving less water than they were. Because I could see they were getting some pretty good water in that area. But that's good. So you kind of create a swell in a way. It'll be collected in the road and routed through the pond. Got it. Cool. Let's see. We've gone through the public comment. Well, it's back to you all.
 I guess I'd want to ask staff, does staff agree that the water situation going to Magnolia will be better after this or at least not worse? Yes. They not only meet our drainage requirements, but they went beyond them.
 okay and that green's plan was already approved by the planning commission as part of the primary plan okay I'll move to spin the rules and go to second reading but I'll let Teresa Turk speak first
 Thank you. I just want to say thank you all for the good tour that we had yesterday. That was really well thought out, very well planned. You answered my numerous questions and very good job about that. So I still have a few concerns about the drainage and I would appreciate it if you all would kind of repeat what you told me yesterday about how you're gonna deal with the
 the actually the retention pond and the upsizing of the of the storm water pipe. Yes ma'am so like I said earlier site drains from the northwest to the southeast. Again the homes from the south will be kicked up into the road it'll be collected and storm drain inlets routed through pipes and into our pond. The pond is sized to contain that
 added runoff that every development increases. And there's an outlet structure on one edge that'll slowly release that so that our flows stay below pre-development flow rates. There's actually, we'll hook, we'll we'll connect on to where Collette meets Magnolia to the existing storm drainage. We'll have to upsize, there's there's a few pipes down there that are
 Currently undersized. We'll upsize that connection to receive what we're putting into it. And that's it. We'll be, you know, we'll be helping the situation at that corner.
 One last question. So when you kind of ran your modeling in terms of the amount of water that would be in your retention pond, did you look at this past year where we had so much more water? I mean, did you go through that kind of scenario and and ensure that the pond would be able to handle that volume of water? Yes, ma'am. We analyzed from the one-year storm all the way through the 100-year storm. Okay. Thank you. Okay.
 All right, so long. Move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading. Would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. And your ordinance will approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPZD 19-6858 for approximately 7.9 acres located at 2673 North Collette Avenue to allow the development of 51 attached and detached dwelling units.
 So I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPZD 19-68-58 for approximately 7.9 acres, located at 2673 North Collette Avenue, to allow the development of 51 attached and detached dwelling units. Okay.
 final comments Kyle I'm surprised that we're seeing this through all three in one night but I'm glad we are I think this does a lot of good things that I hope form a model for other developers you all have improved connectivity in a neighborhood given them additional options you've added variety of housing types to a neighborhood and you've done it without taking anybody's yard
 We've somehow managed to create a new option that wasn't there that I think integrates really well with the neighborhood. It's a responsible and inviting way to increase density. I know that you all had some initial pushback from the numbers, but I think you've shown that density doesn't need to be a scary thing when it's done in a respectful way.
 And on top of all of that we've got park improvements for the whole city. This is this is the kind of win-win kind of scenario that I hope others will do and I guess my only question for the developers would be when you're gonna come work on the west side of the highway. Could I ask just one more question before we time it? Can you give me, do y'all, yeah, what's the average price in the house like that costs? Could I ask?
 That's a good question. Yeah, I think so. I don't know if I have a real good answer to that. I know based on kind of where development costs are looking, and I would say anywhere from ideally we're trying to be under 300 with the 1,300-square-foot, and then when you get a 2,500-square-foot house. But...
 That's a hard thing. Okay. Fair enough. All right. Shalom. Just one quick comment.
 We put more two to four hundred thousand dollar houses what happens is people don't buy houses that are 150,000 in that neighborhood put in 50 and then sell it for 300 the affordable housing Happens because we're not gutting now houses in the neighborhood already there. So if we're talking about affordable housing, um
 I think this helps even if these specifically aren't affordable go through some of these neighborhoods You see so many dumpsters and so many yards because that's what's happening as they're gutting what used to be affordable houses So hopefully this helps prevent that All right, this is no other final comments care would you please cover up
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, number six, a resolution to approve the Transportation Division Overlay and Sidewalk Projects List for 2020 and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 bond. Okay.
 Yeah, Councilor, Mayor, we're bringing forward our project list for this year. The pavement plan was, we did a study and had them actually run all the roads in town, measuring the cracks, and then rate those roads rather than us doing it visually like we've done for the last 16 years.
 After doing that we put this in a matrix and brought it forward with the roads that came to the top of the list on needing repairs Some of them are also looking at we're looking at something new this year and doing a three-quarter lift We normally mill and overlay two inches. We're gonna try and do it with three quarters to kind of replace the Micro seal efforts we've done in the past. We have not gotten quite the results that I wanted out of that So we're going to evaluate something different. So
 So it's kind of combination. It's about 16 miles of road It's got a extra infusion of money from the bond issue where we put in five million for overlay program This has got an extra 900,000 from the bond side going into that so we've been doing somewhere around Nine to ten miles of road and now we'll be doing 16 this year so
 That's kind of the overlay program. It's a matrix generated based on those needs.
 The sidewalk plan, we kind of done the same thing. We did a sidewalk inventory with the same group so that we can actually figure out where we have sidewalk throughout the city. And then the list that you see on that, the top part is the sidewalks we're looking at this year. We looked at the downtown mobility plan, hence Church Street being on there. There's a three block section of church to upgrade like we did on Meadow and we've done around the square area.
 The other five streets on that list are ones that we're looking at to give engineering time to evaluate our needs and to help us design plans for future projects, which are like Dixon and Lewis and McClinton, which has some serious drainage issues down in there. So they're trying to tie that in with improvements for some of the bond money for our stormwater issues. Okay.
 That's kind of a recap of what we're presenting and we're ready to hit the road Get going because I'm through the transportation Yes, it did. It was reviewed twice at two different meetings and receives the support of the committee members Okay, good. Cool. Also was through that a tech committee. Oh good Okay, so what questions do we have for Terry on this? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? see now I'm right back to the council and
 I move that we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. All right. Any final comments on it? Looks good. Thank you all very much for your work on this, too, and the staff's work on this. Good looking plan. All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 okay number seven an ordinance waived requirements form competitive bidding through 2024 and to approve a one-year contract with the northwest arkansas regional planning commission in the amount of forty two thousand five hundred ninety one dollars and six cents for a storm water education program for 2020.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville, along with 17 other cities in northwest Arkansas, has been operating under the Environmental Protection Agency's federally mandated Phase II stormwater regulations as a municipal separate storm sewer system. And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has determined that a regional approach to certain minimum control measures required for renewal of the municipal separate storm sewer system permits
 specifically public education and outreach, public involvement and participation, and the education component of pollution prevention and good housekeeping is both logical, cost-effective, and appropriate, and this approach has been approved by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality.
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has endorsed a proposal from the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to design and provide a stormwater education program to all municipal separate storm sewer systems in Northwest Arkansas. And whereas the cost of the agreement to the city for 2020 exceeds $20,000 and would otherwise require competitive bidding unless the requirement is waived.
 and whereas the City's National Pollution Discharge and Elimination System permit expires in 2024, and the Stormwater Education Program will be a requirement each permit year. Now therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2024, and further authorizes the Mayor to sign a Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of which is attached here to and made a part hereof between the City and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $42,591.06 for a stormwater education program provided in
 by the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to satisfy portions of the Environmental Protection Agency's Phase II stormwater regulations. Thank you, Mayor, members of the Council. As Kit said, this is a...
 long-standing agreement that we've had with the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension through the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission since 2003 we've participated in that. I will say that they they do an excellent job with the educational piece. They do reach areas that I feel would be very difficult for us to reach. They have those methods and presentations and other things in place, especially as it deals with the
 getting into our school systems and other ways to reach out and do that public education for us.
 feel like we receive quite a bit more service than what we actually pay for each and every time that we've looked at this with the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension and just looked at the number of hours that they spent and put a reasonable per hour rate on that. In general, we're getting multiple times more than what we're paying for by partnering as a region. So that's really why we think this is the most cost-effective as well as the most effective as far as reaching individuals with a unified message as a region
 in order to deal with our stormwater education. Be happy to answer any questions you've got. Okay, what questions do we have? Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Do you all review the materials that are sent out and comment and assist on developing of those materials? We do, to a certain degree. We do have a steering committee that they
 pool people from the region each and every year to start talking about what do we want to talk about in the upcoming years. You can kind of see some outlines of those topics in your packet material. For instance, in 2020 the topic is storm drain awareness and dumping. 2021 is litter. In 22, sediment control. 23, yard waste, which we did several years ago, but it continues to be a challenge for us.
 And then 24, hit again, automotive maintenance and household hazardous waste. So a lot of those are kind of formed from the previous materials. But we do, as a committee, take a look at those as they're brought up and bounce ideas off one another about what those should include. Great. Thank you. Any other questions? What public comment do we have on this? Yes.
 And now I'll bring it back to Council. Sloan. Move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance away the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2024 and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $42,591.06 for our stormwater education program for 2020. Slump. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Cop. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2024 and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $42,591.06 for a stormwater education program for 2020.
 Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Perth? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have just a couple of announcements to bring to the council's attention and also to the public's attention. The
 project that it just started up this week, which is a permanent installation of what was a temporary tactical urbanism project at the corner of Rock Street and Mill Avenue near the Yvonne Richardson Center.
 And so this is a really great example of one of those public inspired tactical urbanism projects that actually turned out to be a really good thing. And so our transportation department will be installing, and it's going to take three weeks, so that's why I want to bring it to your attention. There will be some interruption of traffic.
 installing the traffic island to define the vehicle lanes, installation of crosswalks, accessible ramps, and sidewalk connections all around that area of Rock Street near the Yvonne Richardson Center. And then, so that'll be until February 21st, ongoing.
 And then I did mention this to you last time, but just to remind if you are still interested in the puppy grams for Valentine's Day, you can have a puppy gram sent to your favorite Valentine and I just call Animal Services and they'll help you with that. And then finally the Spring Adult Softball registration opened this past weekend. So Spring Adult Softball registrations underway. Thank you. All right. Any other announcements?
 Well done, council. All right. Sarah, you've got time to drive that shiny new car around town. All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.