I'd like to call the City Council meeting of February the 6th. We've already started off with a bang here. I'm gonna call the order, the February 6th City Council meeting to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Here. Gray? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Tennant? Here. Bunch?
 Latour? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, the first order of business we have tonight under the mayor's announcements proclamations recognition City Council meeting Presentations reports and discussion items first first item is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a financial report, and this is for the full year, so this is for the 12th month of the year. Sales tax recently came in for the month of November, was in the 3% range for the city. We finished the year in total sales tax for the general fund
 up 4.09%. We were looking for 4.5% to 5%, but 4.09% is good. And I'll certainly take that. Overall revenue for the general fund was up between 3.5% and 4% when we looked at all revenue sources.
 As far as on the expenditure side, expenditures post commitments and commitments, of course, are capital investments that we haven't done yet, but we are committed to do. We're about $47 million, so we'll have a slight loss for the year, but that's not the
 That's not unexpected. As you remember, we had the play-playing attitude a year. We also talked about the eight-square and the investment there. So although we will show a loss, we're a little better than I thought we are. Like I said, our revenues are up about 4% in the general fund, so I'm certainly very happy with that. Street funds. Street funds revenue was up roughly 6%. The driver of that was a half-cent gallonage tax by the state. That generated about...
 $300,000 extra above and beyond what we expected. That's good. We'll show a little loss in the street fund also, but that's, again, driven by capital projects. Remember, we have a salt storage building. We still have Willow Bend that we're dealing with there. So, again, I'm satisfied with how that's going. Thank you.
 Parking fund parking fees were up about three percent About a million and a half collected that's pretty close to what our expenditures were so we're pretty well break even there Again, I'd like to remind you we're still working on the Meadow Street Deck and some capital improvements there so breaking even is pretty good for the parking fund Biggest thing we watch is make sure that we're meeting
 enough to meet the bond covenants for coverage on the bond issue, and that we are.
 Parks Development Fund. Parks Development Fund HMR taxes were up about 3.8% this year. So they're pretty steadily increasing at the 3% rate. We'll have about a $200,000 gain there in parks development. That's good because that's what we use to fund not only the regional park, but all of our other parks, too, in the city.
 Water and sewer revenue was up about 4% this year. It's a combination driven by a 3% rate increase and also by some increased usage of water this year. That fund will show, actually will show about a break even there too. Remember, we did some capital work this year.
 We still got a lot of capital to go. We're still going to roll about $23 million worth of capital forward when I get to the reappropriation, so we got a lot of projects to do, but we did complete a lot this year. Recycling and trash was up 8% on the revenue side. A lot of that's driven by the drop box construction in the area, things of that nature.
 I wish you a slight loss there, about $900,000 in that range. Primarily that's because we did do some capital. Remember, we have some trash trucks that we bought that are still in process, haven't been received yet. But your capital expenditures are the reason for a loss there. And remember, when we're talking about special revenue funds or the enterprise funds,
 That's everything other than the general fund. It's not unusual to see a loss. We'll see surpluses some years, losses other years, based on our capital commitment, what we do on the capital side. The airport, actually the airport fuel sales were up.
 over 15% for this year, so they were up good this year. We'll come pretty well to break and even at the airport. In the airport, something we want to watch. The fuel sales have done good. We have to remember that we have large expenditures out there because we're running the FBO, so we're actually selling fuel. So that's a large part of our revenue base out there beside the rental.
 So the airport is holding its own so far. As far as fleet's concerned, we spent roughly $4 million more than revenue generated. But remember, fleet fund is supported by all the other funds in our capital needs over time. Again, there you're going to see some years we're going to have surplus, some years of loss depending on what the budget is.
 All in all, if I can summarize for this year, roughly across the board, we look like revenues up between 3% and 4% in most of the operating funds, which is good, steady progress. We're going to see ups and downs as long as we keep progressing at the 3% to 4% range I'm satisfied. I'd like to see it a little higher, but I'll take what we have. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions for Paul? All right. Thank you, Paul. All right.
 All right. Number three, we have the Ozark Regional Transit Operating Statistics Calendar Year 2017. Who has that? Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, my name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the Public Information Officer for Ozark Regional Transit.
 To say we had a challenging year in 2017 would be a severe understatement. But we are on the road to recovery in a very big way. We have finally started receiving some of our own buses to replace the 20 that we lost in the fire on January 10, 2017. We were able to get the insurance proceeds in June and place an order for eight buses. We've received seven of those.
 Six of those are currently on the road being used. One apparently had some electrical issues that we're working through, and then the eighth one is due tomorrow. Our ridership has suffered in 2017 across the board, and basically it was down about 18% region-wide, and that's inclusive of Fayetteville as well.
 We instituted a Veterans Ride Free program June 5th of 2017, and that's on our fixed route system. We've had as many as 451 veterans in any one week take advantage of that. And since June 5th of 2017, we've had almost 12,089 veterans ride our fixed route systems for free.
 Those buses that I spoke of that are brand new, the seating capacity is 19 regular seats, plus there are going to be two lockdown spaces for wheelchairs. And they're going to come fully equipped. So they're going to have the Wi-Fi and the bicycle racks and the GPS tracking that allow our phone application to work and help people find our bus system, which is something we've been sorely lacking this whole year, having borrowed buses.
 The GPS system on the borrowed buses and some of the other ones that have been donated to us They're not quite a hundred percent, but they're pretty close So now people will be able to get on their phone applications and find the buses in real time and also find the bus stops And things like that so that should all work together to increase ridership going forward in 2018 I
 We are having a stakeholders meeting at the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission on February 15th at 3 p.m. I'd like to invite anybody that would be interested to come to that. That's going to be in regards to the light bus rapid transit system that the consultants have been looking at for a year now.
 We're going to be presenting some options to the stakeholders. So looking forward to seeing what the consultants have to say, and obviously everybody is welcome to attend. That's really all I've got for tonight, but I'm happy to open it up to any questions or comments or concerns. Okay. Do we have any questions? Yes.
 Okay. I would say, where is the meeting going to be? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought it said it was at the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission. That's on Clayton Street or Avenue, kind of right across from Western Sizzling in Springdale. Thank you.
 Okay, the other item we have is the Housing Authority Board appointment, reappointment of Christopher White. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes, the nominating committee met, and we had the opportunity to interview Mr. White. And I'd like to move to reconsider the motion to approve that failed at the last meeting. Okay, we have a motion to reconsider the appoint, correct? Yes.
 Yes, motion to approve the appointment. Yes, Dell? I'd like to second that motion. Okay. Is there any discussion?
 Okay. The motion is Sarah. I would like to note that I'll be voting no on the reappointment because I feel that the work that the board performed this last year did not meet the standards for transparency and citizen engagement that we aspire to hold as the city government. So I'll be voting no. Thank you. Okay.
 Just for the record, of course, this is the motion to reconsider the vote, so then after that there would be a motion to approve. To approve as well. Yes. Okay. So now we have a motion to reconsider the vote. Any other discussion on that? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Hinnick. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Letourne. Yes. And with that vote, the motion to approve is automatically on the floor. All right.
 Do we need a motion to second or is it already— No, the motion has been brought back onto the floor. All right, very good. What questions do we have, comments? I think, sir, you have expressed your position. Anybody else? John? Mr. Mayor, Councilmember Marsh brings up a point and I was just curious. I'm somewhat uneducated about this. Is there a lack of transparency on the board?
 If you go back on the city council pages, there was no submission of meeting minutes or agendas prior to the meetings. There was a lack of citizen engagement before they made the decision to sell off the parcel at Willow Heights. And overall, I felt that they've not done a good job being transparent with what they were doing and engaging the citizens in the management of meetings.
 millions of dollars in public assets. I think that they could do a much better job than they did, and so I would like to see new appointments on that board. Thank you. Okay. But the task ahead of you is either appoint or not appoint on this vote. Everybody got that? Okay. Okay.
 any other comments dellen yes mayor i'd just like to say that i was at the interview with mr white and i also have worked closely with mr white for several years on a committee in town and i have never seen any objectionable behavior and i think that it's it's an appropriate assignment to ask him to continue on the board okay
 Anybody else? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? We don't need a motion. No. Kenyon, I mean Smith, sorry. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. No. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Punch. Yes. Leter. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, before we get on into consent, I would like to recognize a group from Spring International Language Center. I've got the privilege of meeting some of the Brazilian teachers in the last week. And I'm not sure if it's the teachers or the students. Is it the students or the teachers? I thought it was the teachers. All right, very good. So if you would stand, we'd like to recognize you tonight. Thank you all. Welcome.
 Oh, okay. Well, on behalf of all Brazilians teachers here for the methodology course in the University of Arkansas, we would like to give you...
 This, just for you to remember, there are a few things here from our country that we brought from Brazil. And we want to say thank you for having us here and explaining how this works. And we'll always remember the policy of having an open heart, an open mind, and open doors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very much appreciated.
 Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda.
 Number one approval of the January 16 2018 City Council meeting minutes number two a Resolution of Ward bid number 17 to x26 and authorized the purchase of a Ford F 554 by four crew cab with nap hide dump body from superior automotive group of silent Springs, Arkansas in the amount of fifty four thousand four hundred twenty nine dollars for use by the transportation department number three
 A resolution to award bid number 17-34 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F-550 with Dakota body and aerial platform from Grand Truck Equipment Company of Afton, Oklahoma in the amount of $103,115 for use by the Transportation Department.
 Number four, resolution authorized purchase of 2018 Dodge Ram 1500 regular cab 4x2, a Ram 1500 quad cab 4x4, and a Ram 2500 crew cab 4x2 from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal Arkansas in the total amount of $64,146 pursuant to a state procurement contract.
 for use by the parks and recreation department number five a resolution authorized the purchase of a chevrolet tahoe special service utility vehicle from superior chevrolet asylum springs arkansas any amount of thirty four thousand five hundred twenty four dollars and eighty five cents pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the fire department number six a resolution to authorize the purchase of a dodge ram twenty five hundred
 Four-wheel drive crew cab truck from Lewis Ford of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $26,971 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $400 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number eight, a resolution to approve the agreement for assignment of ground lease for airport facilities
 Property located at 4560 South School Avenue from Flying Investments LLC to LC Joint Adventures LLC. Number nine, a resolution to approve contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center to provide funding assistance in the amount of $57,000 for maintenance and repairs at the Walker Family Residential Community Complex in 2018. Number 10.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve an agreement with JWC Environmental LLC in the amount of $49,047.06.
 for the repair of a channel monster grinding and screening unit used at the hamstring sewer lift station. Number 11, a resolution to approve supplemental agreement number one to the Contract and Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $66,545.27 to add engineering services for the replacement of an existing 24-inch water main at
 adjacent to Morningside Drive associated with utility relocations necessary for Arkansas Department of Transportation job 040579. Number 12, a resolution to approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2018 from Arkansas One Call System Incorporated in the amount of up to $25,000.
 Number 13, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sign the third agreement with Beaver Water District related to protection of and nutrient reduction in the Beaver Lake watershed. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Sarah? So moved. Second. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Petty?
 All right, thank you all very much. Next thing, we're going to open up a public hearing. B1, a resolution over the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Paul Brickman, located at 171 East Meadow Street in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment of $4,715. Thank you, Mayor, Council, David Carver, the Code Compliance Administrator.
 As you may recall, this item was tabled at the January 2nd meeting at the request of the property owner. Since that time, the property owner has submitted an application for a building permit. The application, however, is incomplete and lacking required and pertinent information. Therefore, the permit has yet to be issued. Staff is recommending the approval of this resolution with the consideration of the following.
 After approval, the property owner is granted a required 30-day grace period to obtain a building permit. This grace period may also be extended if staff is able to observe significant efforts are being made by the responsible parties to obtain a building permit and begin work. And once a permit is issued, the raise and removal order will cease.
 Thank you, and I'll field any questions you may have. Okay. But also, is the owner of the property here? Okay. Then what questions do we have for David on this? All right, John. David, I appreciate you sending me the number. I tried to make contact with the landowner to no avail. What were the deficiencies in the building permit application? I mean, I hope it was more than just he didn't dot an I or cross a T. Correct.
 Lack of a valid license contractors to perform the necessary work. I believe his Estimated value of work was also insufficient Significantly lower than what we would estimate necessary repairs to be He was emailed a response from building safety. We have not received anything back from him At building safety had an email conversation with him with him before this time. I
 I believe the last correspondence directly from the property owner was back in November of 2017. Since then, we did receive the building permit, which lacked the information necessary to process a permit. And also that was pretty recent. So he still has time to get us that information to acquire a permit. Thank you.
 I have one further question. So when you emailed him back, did you explain exactly what he needed to do in relation to a billing permit to make it where it would be acceptable?
 I would like to stipulate that all of this is from building safety, not out of my division. But yes, it was outlined very clearly to the property owner what would be needed to acquire a permit. Yes, Mayor, Council, I saw a very detailed email this afternoon outlining what's needed.
 in order to assess the value of the building permit as well as the other items that David mentioned. So he does have the information, assuming he got the email. Okay. Anything else? Is there any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Fidella? Yes, Mayor, I move that we pass the resolution. Okay. Do we have a second? John? I second that motion. Okay. Any final comments? No.
 All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none. New business, number one, a resolution to award RFP 17-16 to authorize contract with
 MSW Consultants LLC in the amount of $47,932 for the development of a comprehensive rate study for the Recycling and Trash Collection Division and to approve project contingency in the amount of $4,793.20. Paul? Paul Gulley, This is a rate study, and as the council will recall, we have not had a rate study.
 for trash and recycling since the 1990s. So to say it's dated is doing it a service.
 It's long outdated The selection committee was formed mark Kenyon did serve as a councilman member on that committee I served on that committee. I will be the point man on this particular study It'll be a collaborative effort with people from trash and recycling utility billing accounting and finance so during this rate study will establish rates and
 which will be necessary to move forward, implement the master plan that the council has adopted, the segments of the master plan that was adopted, that is.
 It will have to take into consideration capital needs moving forward, any new personnel we need to implement those plans, and should last for a good five years. So that's what the rate study is all about. Again, it will come through. I will probably be the point man with the Water and Sewer Committee to discuss this rate study. This particular firm has national experience.
 served a lot of clients. That's a client base that certainly impressed me. Lexington, Kentucky was one of the areas which was very, very similar to us. Muskogee. But it had a lot of larger clients, a lot of smaller clients, and I'm certainly confident they have the
 To get this study done for roughly $50,000 with contingency, it believed me quite a deal. They have agreed at the...
 Trash and Recycling Department, in conjunction with Purchasing Department, did an excellent job negotiating with them, getting them to agree to use a lot of statistics that Kessler had gathered when they were doing the master plan, and therefore kept that cost down. So I'll be happy to answer any questions on the rate study or this particular company if anybody has a question. Okay. Anybody got any questions?
 All right. What public comment do we have? Louise Mann, 629 Gray Avenue. I've got a list of questions, and I'll leave the list here and go sit down. I've got one of my attorneys here tonight to be my ears, because we're still working out the kinks with the hearing aids. The first question is, what affiliation does Kessler Consulting have with MSW Consulting?
 Second question, in terms of rates, I love the pay as you throw, which makes us homeowners responsible for the amount of waste we generate. But individuals living in apartments are not held to the same financial standard. How will this rate study address the financial unequal charges between homeowners and apartment dwellers? This is especially important with the ever-increasing renter population.
 Number three, in terms of the fleet, with Walmart and J.B. Hunt in our backyard, I wish y'all would invent an electric trough truck that will meet your OCC needs. When I made a FOIA request regarding research into trough trucks, it revealed that only one phone call had been made, and it was to a community that got caught landfilling their single-stream recycling, Santa Fe.
 I question the validity of cost of recycling equation that's being used around the nation. It goes like this. The cost of recycling equals total cost divided by tons of recyclables collected. That's nuts. As everyone knows, a lot of garbage gets collected with single stream. I hope Kessler did not use that equation, and I certainly hope that MSW will not be using it in their report.
 I'd like to get a list of all the data that will be used to calculate cost of running the drop-off centers. I'm requesting that during this rate study time period, counters be placed monthly at both drop-off facilities and that notes regarding the daily weather conditions also be recorded each day the counters are out.
 The data from the Marion Orton drop-off is very important because we're getting clean loads without all the expense incurred with curbsort. And this is a great opportunity to change our billing and to be a national leader in transparency and separate garbage and recycling and make them each a line item on the bill.
 I'd be curious to know what role EAC will play in this rate study, and I'm curious because EAC recommended single stream without ever interviewing an end user. The committee included a representative from the garbage hauling industry, but no end users. Without end users, there is no recycling.
 I suspect MSW has been hired to tell us the only way we can realistically afford recycling is to go a single stream. I'd encourage the media to gather and publish now the names of three single stream facilities admired by those aldermen who continue to advocate for single stream.
 Thank you for placing this item on the regular rather than the consent agenda. And I'll just leave the questions up here. Okay. They highlight it. Thank you. Anyone else? We will get somebody to respond to those. All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Public comment? I'm sorry. Yes, ma'am, I said we were going to answer your questions. Okay. Do you need to go next?
 Well, we will. You can give them to the city clerk, and she will be happy to pass them along. Well, I... You've got the whole staff here. Couldn't they come up here and look at the questions and answer them while you've got everybody here all together? Thank you. Thank you. All right. Staff, you need to...
 Paul, you have the point on that. Paul, this is a pretty substantial list, so I'm certainly not prepared to address all of it, and some of it is in my bailiwick. As far as the relationship between Kessler and MSW, I know of none. Another question was their relationship with EAC. I know of none there. As far as...
 What role will EAC will play in the rate study? I don't believe we have any plans for a role. As far as the information that will be gathered by MSW, we're going to work with them and ask what information they particularly need as far as separating the rates equitably to the users. That's part of a rate study, and we'll examine that as we discuss the study and the formation of the study.
 Let's see. I'm sorry. I might have looked just a little bit. So we're talking about financial inequality between homeowners and apartments. That will be addressed during the rate study, so we allocate those. Inventing enough electric tough trucks. Do you want to answer that one, Jeff? We did talk to more than just one.
 city about truck trucks and again, you're up against that same issue, you're sorting out the curve, but it doesn't solve that exterior, you know, that demanding work element. I will say this as well, that the single stream was never on the table with any conversation we had with them that day. That is not on any table anywhere. Okay. Thank you.
 OK, some of the other ones associated, we discussed the single stream. The city didn't adopt single stream when they approved the master plan, so I don't think that that's particularly relevant. The list of the cost data running drop-off centers, that'll be gathered as we do the study. So those are the answers to the best of my ability right now.
 Again, one of the things, if we have to raise studies to correctly allocate the costs across the board, I would say that's the best we can do on this short notice. Okay. And what we will do, Louise, we will get you a written response as well. Okay? I'm sorry I misunderstood you. I thought you wanted a written response in the next few days.
 We'll get you something in the next few days. Okay? All right. All right. We have Sarah. I move we approve the resolution. Kyle. Second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Is there any final comments from the council?
 Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to accept a repair quote of $26,100 plus any applicable tax with Rebuild It Services Group, LALC, to repair it.
 a clarifier drive for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Tim. Mayor, this is an ordinance. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Whereas formal sealed bidding is not necessary for the repair of hidden and unknown damages, and whereas Rebuild It Services Group, LLC, has taken apart and examined two clarifier drives and has determined that one drive can be rebuilt at a cost of $26,100 and that the other drive cannot be repaired,
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 The City Council and the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that because of the Arkansas procurement law, R6-19-11-203 subsection 14 subsection EE, repair of quote hidden or unknown damages, the repair of the clarifier drive does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts Rebuild It Services Group LLC's repair quote of $26,100 plus any taxes and authorizes the payment of that amount.
 Okay, thank you mayor and council. The Nolan treatment facility Processes have six clarifiers available to separate the solids from the water All six clarifiers are mechanically driven with the same clarifier drive that we're getting repaired here So several years ago two spare mechanical units were purchased and placed in storage as critical spares Since then both of those spares have been used and recently we sent the two
 bad drives off to rebuild it for repair. What they discovered that one of them was beyond repair, it was not cost effective to repair. The other one just needed some minor repair in the amount of $26,000. And you see that if you buy a rebuilt drive, it's probably about $40,000 and the new drive would be about $130,000, something like that. So it is a good investment.
 Basically that needed some shafts and some gears, the wear wasn't too bad. The vendor did deduct $250 for the scrap value of the non-repairable unit and we will have a single critical spare on the shelf and we feel like one critical spare will be sufficient for the clarifiers at the null plant.
 asking for the Arkansas procurement law because we had to get it disassembled for damage to some equipment that was already purchased by the city. Do you have any answering questions you may have? What questions do we have for Tim on this? We'll just go through the water and sewer committee. Is that one that did? Okay. Mark? I move that we adopt the ordinance as published. Well, I've got to take some public comment.
 Is there any public comment on this issue? Okay, I'm going to bring it up. We need to go to the second reading. Yeah. Go to the second. I move that we go to the second reading of the ordinance as published. Okay, Cheston. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? If you move you're in second, or please put the motions in. Okay, sorry. There you go. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hunch? Yes. Letour? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to accept a repair quote of $26,100 plus any applicable tax with Rebuild It Services Group LLC to repair a clarifier drive for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Okay. Any other questions? No. Okay.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading and final reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay.
 and nor to waive competitive bidding and to accept repair quote of twenty six thousand one hundred dollars plus any applicable tax with we built it services group llc to repair a clarifier drive for the nolan water resource recovery facility any final comments from the council everybody good okay um sundry would you please call the roll
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingman? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 For stream gauge operations and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fed Bowl in 2018 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721 KIPP.
 Whereas since 1998, the City of Fayetteville has participated in a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for operation and maintenance of urban stream gauging stations to record data concerning rainfall and runoff.
 And whereas in 2015, the City modified its agreement with USGS to begin monitoring major pollutants at Town Branch and Mud Creek, and the City will continue this monitoring to provide more accurate information regarding the pollutants leaving the City at these points.
 Whereas, the proposed 2018 program would remain unchanged from 2017 with the exception of the elimination of one storm sample to account for a drop in available cooperative funding through the USGS program. And whereas, the USGS, which purchased and installed the monitoring equipment at no cost to the City, provides these services at a cost much lower than the City could receive from any other provider.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a joint funding agreement.
 A copy of which is attached to this ordinance and made a part hereof between the City of Fayetteville and the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville in 2018 with the amount paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred and twenty one dollars Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor.
 As Kit said, in 2015 this contract was modified with USGS to begin monitoring the flow and major pollutants at the two locations which are major outfalls from the city, Town Branch and Mud Creek. The data is being gathered both continuously and through sampling at various times in order to more closely model the pollutant concentrations in these streams. This will give us accurate information on total amount of various constituents being measured leaving the city at these points.
 In 2015, the city contributed $61,721 to the program and USGS contributed $10,000 in funds as well as providing and installing equipment no charge to the city. In 2016 and 2017, the programs were approved at the same funding levels and the same scope of work. The proposed 2018 program will remain unchanged except for the elimination of the one storm sample. Thank you.
 The proposed program would again include sampling and determination of various pollution concentrations at the two locations within the cities. These locations would track continuous information regarding flow, turbidity, temperature, and conductivity. The sampling of these locations would provide data on nutrients, major ions, suspended sediment, and bacteria. The station located in Town Branch is on Armstrong and the one on Mud Creek is on Gregg Avenue.
 monitoring just upstream of the West Fork allows us to determine the fate of those contributions to that stream and the one on Mud Creek goes to Illinois River with the continued discussion about phosphorus levels on Illinois between the states of Arkansas and Oklahoma It'll be beneficial to have a baseline from which to judge the progress of measures developed to reduce pollutants there.
 in addition to the items above the recommendation also includes maintaining the crest stage gauge at morocco creek on township this gauge has been useful in the past in determining the intensity of storm events and the extent of any funding that they cost the total cost of the program would be 60 721 and they they will be split 50 50 between water and sewer and the city's engineering
 Do you have any answering questions that you might have? What questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark. This did go through the Water Sewer Committee. This is a continuation of a long and good agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey. They provide a lot of data, like Tim mentioned, for baseline quality sampling.
 I move that we go to the second reading. Okay. Adela? I second that motion. A motion and a second to go to the second reading. Adela, you've got to be on the board. There we go. There it went. All right. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letour? Yes. Yes.
 in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville in 2018 with the amount paid by the City not to exceed $61,721. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville in 2018 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Mark. Sorry about that. No problem.
 It's all good. It's all good. Mayor, did you take public comment? I did. Okay. Thank you. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kingman. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Lynch. Yes. Letourne. Yes. All righty. Number four.
 an ordinance to amend the timber trail subdivision planned zoning district to allow use unit eight single family dwellings as a use by right on lots 100 through 103. kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes that portion of the Timber Trails Residential Plan Zoning District as depicted and described on Exhibits A, B, and C attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo to allow use unit 8 single-family dwellings on lots 100 through 103. All other terms, conditions of approval, and statements of commitments remain unchanged and effective.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan Kurth, City Planning Division. This piece of property is on the east slope of Mount Sequoia, just west of Happy Hollow Elementary School. As the mayor noted, this is a request to amend the PZD to allow use unit 8 single-family dwellings in addition to the currently permitted use unit 9 two-family dwellings. This piece of property was originally part of the cliffside PZD approved in 2004. It was a highly prescriptive PZD that only allowed students
 single family units on some lots and only two family units on other lots.
 Ordinances since that time have made it particularly difficult to develop two-family dwellings on a lot of these lots. They're extremely narrow. The access management ordinance requires a curb cut separation of 50 feet between driveways or other design ordinances that aren't accommodating necessarily with the layout of the way the subdivision was made. Adopted plan considerations for this development include that this is a residential neighborhood area, which is intended to encourage a diversity of facilities.
 residential building types to the north is the cliffside multifamily development. This subdivision currently has some two family and single family dwellings and it segues to larger lot single family dwelling south of here. Staff feels that the request increases the potential housing diversity and then that sense does meet the future land use map designation for the property.
 That said, the Planning Commission did recommend approval of an amendment to the existing RPZD by a vote of 8-0. Staff also recommends in favor of this. With that said, I'd be happy to take any questions you all may have. What questions do we have in council? Good. Okay. What public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I have not received any feedback from the neighborhood one way or the other on this, so I'm going to go ahead and motion that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay, Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett?
 in order to amend the timber trail subdivision planned zoning district to allow use unit 8 single-family dwellings as a use by right on lots 100 through 103. adela i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading sir second
 we have a motion the second to go to the third and final reading sondra would you please call the roll yes yes gray yes marsh yes union yes eddie yes yes yes yes yes in order to amend the timber trail subdivision planned zoning district to allow usually eight single-family dwellings as a use by right on lots 100 through 103. any final comments from the council okay son would you please call the road
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Okay. Number five. Thank you all. Number five.
 of an underdeveloped street right-of-way and a portion of an alley right-of-way. Kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of street and alley rights-of-way are not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates portions of street and alley rights-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this order, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This particular piece of property is on the west side of West Avenue, just south of the library and north of Prairie Street. As was so ably noted, this request is to vacate two pieces of right-of-way, one on the east side of the applicant's property and one on the west.
 The main issues that staff considered in this request was that the west side piece of right of way is, well neither of them are built, but the west side piece of right of way is one of the only remaining pieces of this portion of paper alley existing in this area. To the north it was vacated in 2007 and to the south it was vacated in 2016.
 Another, the second main consideration for staff is the portion that is adjacent to the city's built right-of-way on West Avenue is significantly over-dedicated, if you will. The street section in that area has a required, excuse me, a required right-of-way width of 21.5 feet from center line. As it is currently, it's closer to 41.5 feet, which is more similar to a principal arterial street, which West Avenue certainly is not and has never intended to be built out as
 Additionally, there were no utility objections to this request, so staff is in full support of this and the Planning Commission forwarded it to you all with the recommendation of approval of 8-0. Okay. Any questions I'm answering? Yes. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. And so what shall we do? Okay. Sarah? Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So I'm going to ask you to please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Letour? Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 17-5977 for property located at 357 Southwest Avenue to vacate a portion of an undeveloped street right-of-way and a portion of an alley right-of-way.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 An ordinance to approve the AC 17-5977, roughly located at 357 Southwest Avenue, to vacate a portion of an undeveloped street right-of-way and a portion of an alley right-of-way. Do we have any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes, right. Yes mark. Yes. Yes Yes, yes, yes Hey, thank you all number six an ordinance rezone that property described as only petition RZN 17-6,000 for approximately 0.92 acres Located at 2870 East Joyce Boulevard from c1 neighborhood commercial to UT urban thoroughfare Yeah, beat ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archery are hereby changed the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archery are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you. This particular piece of property is on the north side of Joyce Boulevard, just northwest of the intersection of Crossover and Joyce. It is the location of the current Happy Bays Car Wash, which is a self-service and drive-through
 As a bit of background to the request, the original applicant's request was for C2 thoroughfare commercial. There was confusion between the applicant and staff as to what could be allowed and how that would work for their business. And when they came before the Planning Commission and discussed the item further there, the Planning Commission recommended that they revise their request to UT Urban Thoroughfare. With a better understanding of the Urban Thoroughfare zoning district, the applicant was amenable to that request and noted on the record that they accepted that change.
 That said, with regards to adopted plans for this property, this is a city neighborhood area, which if you're familiar with our future land use map, encourages a wide diversity of uses, residential, non-residential, and in varying degrees of density, and preferably in a mixed-use pattern, which is readily accommodated by the UT Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District. That said, it can readily meet several of the city's goals, including to create more of a traditional town-form style development,
 Issues that staff looked at with this piece of property were in regards to this request is that the existing car wash is currently non-conforming despite the fact that this is a very auto-oriented area. With the revision of the request, Planning Commission did forward the request to you all by a vote of 8-0 with the recommendation of approval. Staff is also in favor of the revised request to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Do you have any questions I'm answering? Okay, any questions? Okay, any public comment on this? Mayor, I think the applicant's here. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, it's the applicant. Yes, please.
 I'm Jonathan Wakefield, the new store development director for Christian Brothers Automotive. We're the applicant for the urban thoroughfare zoning change. Just want to make myself available if you have any specific questions, concerns, comments about who Christian Brothers is, how we might integrate into the community.
 Rules and stipulations don't allow me to do, such as show you our very nice architectural building. Hopefully somebody cheated and went on their website and looked anyway, but no, I can't certainly ask you to do that. But if you do have any questions, any thoughts, comments, I'm here to answer. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Now, do we have any public comment? Okay. I'll bring back the counsel. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letierre? Yes. And the ordinance to rezone that property is cried in a rezoning petition RZN 17-6000 for approximately 0.92 acres located at 2870 East Joyce Boulevard from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Okay. Sarah? Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela? Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes.
 RZN 17-6000 for approximately 0.92 acres located at 2870 East Joyce Boulevard from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Okay. Final comments from the council. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Okay. Number seven.
 the ordinance three ordinances on that property discovery zoning petition rzn 17-6018 for approximately 0.60 acres located at 651 and 711 north store avenue from rmf 40 residential multi-family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF-40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RI-U, residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This particular piece of property is a few blocks north of the University of Arkansas campus. It's roughly between Leverett and Garland, a couple blocks east of the Garland Avenue parking garage that the U of A owns. The adopted plan for this area for the future land use map designates it as city neighborhood area. Similar to the last rezoning, it's an area that encourages a wide variety of uses and densities.
 Staff does feel that the request is consistent with that and that it does allow various different patterns of missing middle housing. You can do single family, two family, three family or four family houses. One consideration with this request is that it does remove the multifamily zoning or multifamily use from the allowed enough uses. The tradeoff is that this allows a much greater flexibility in lot area and lot width requirements. If you've had the opportunity to drive this site, it's a great opportunity.
 extremely steep terrain and this kind of flexibility makes it more feasible to develop it and utilize the property for development purposes. That said, although there is no density capital or density maximum associated with the RIEU zoning district, staff does feel that the terrain and the size of the property is a natural restraint that will ensure that development on it is compatible with what's already existing.
 All that said, the Planning Commission did recommend approval of this and forwarding this to the City Council by a vote of 8-0, and staff also recommends approval of the RIU Zoning District on this piece of property. I'd be happy to take any questions you may have. Okay. What questions do we have from the Council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the Council. What's the wishes of the Council? John. Mayor, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Okay. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Do we get our names in there and stuff? Did you get all that, Sandra? No, it's not recorded yet. No problem. Alright. Now, Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letour? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 17-6018 for approximately .6 acres located at 651 and 711 North Store Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. And so,
 Who would like to make a motion? All right, Justin. Move we submit the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second. Yes. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Smith, yes. Gray, yes. Marsh, yes. Kenyon, yes. Petty, yes. Pinnock, yes. Bunch, yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 17-6018 for approximately 0.6 acres located at 651 and 711 North Store Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 okay any final comments from the council on this one okay sunday would you please call her up yeah yes gray yes marsh yes canyon yes petty yes yes yes look here yes okay number eight an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 17-6034 for approximately 4.4 acres located at 2468 north crossover road from rsf2
 residential single family two units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general kit It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arcs are hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF to residential single family two units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general and
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are considered by a men's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This particular piece of property is northeast of the intersection of Crossover and Township. It's worth noting that it's not exactly on the corner. It's a bit north of there on the east side of the street, or the east side of Crossover, which at that point is a divided state highway. Okay.
 As a little bit of background for this particular request, the council did elect to rezone this property in 2005 to its current RSF2, residential single family units per acre zoning designation. In September of 2013, the council denied a request to rezone the property to RO, residential office. Later that year, the property owner came back again to request RSF8, residential single family eight units per acre, which was also denied.
 With that in mind, the applicant worked with staff in wanting to rezone the property again, having found trouble developing it. Staff felt that the NSL Neighborhood Services Limited Zoning District was an appropriate and compatible zoning district at that area.
 When it was before the Planning Commission at the January 8, 2018 meeting, the Planning Commission recommended NSG, Neighborhood Services General, as an alternative. The applicant was amenable to that request and stated that on the record and it was forwarded to the City Council accordingly. If it's not too much of a bother, I know it's been a topic of conversation, so I'm just going to go a little bit in the detail of the differences between the NSL and NSG zoning districts.
 Among the permitted uses between those zoning districts, the main distinction is something called Use Unit 12A and NSG allows Use Unit 12B.
 Between these two use units, the main distinction is the allowed building size. The uses between them are the same. You can do things like dry cleaners, barbershops, bookstores, restaurants, bakeries. But under use unit 12A, which is allowed under the NSL zoning district, these can only be between 1,500 and 3,000 square feet. Whereas under use unit 12B, this can go up to 8,000 square feet for a building.
 And in neither of these cases does this count against you for residential uses. So, for example, if you wanted to do two apartments above a 3,000 or 8,000 square foot restaurant, you could without that counting towards your limited building area.
 Other differences between the two zoning districts is NSL allows 10 units per acre, NSG allows 18. They allow the same lot width, same lot areas. The setbacks are slightly more generous in the NSG zoning district allowing for townhome development. The heights are the same as well. It allows three stories in both zoning districts which is the same as several of the neighborhoods zoned RSF4 in the adjoining properties.
 As far as the city's adopted plans, this area is designated as residential neighborhood area, which does allow for a, or it's meant to encourage a diverse mixture of residential developments, but there is a note in the future land use map designation that it is appropriate to have some non-residential low intensity and low, or low intensity non-residential uses along connecting corridors and corners.
 That said, that was part of staff's reason to support the NSL zoning district, considering crossover roads.
 classification as a major transportation corridor in Fayetteville. I also feel that the NSL zoning district did a good job meeting the city goal for appropriate infill as access to existing city streets, water and sewer. And under either zoning district, it does meet the city's intent for traditional town form to have buildings built up the street with parking either on the side or behind it.
 I did also include another image here for you if it's readily visible just to give you an idea of the future land use map. It was very deliberately laid out in this part of the city. You can see the two blue areas, one near the intersection of crossover with Mission and one with Joyce and crossover. It was very deliberately done to try and limit the ability to develop a crossover into a major commercial corridor with strip development similar to what's seen in certain other parts of the city.
 Other issues to consider with this are rezoning from the existing RSF2 to NSG zoning district is there is going to be an increase in density. The property is currently undeveloped, so any development on the property at all will have some sort of increased traffic, whether it's associated with businesses or residences.
 Staff felt that the NSL zoning district was an appropriate transition from the crossover highway 265 to the residential neighborhoods to the east. We weren't so comfortable with the NSG zoning district that it may result in larger developments more appropriately located up those nodes I indicated on the previous slide.
 Uh, and other issues that were brought up, and this was not only at the Planning Commission and agenda session, but since then, uh, we're more development related, but just to clarify things that as far as lighting goes, this, any development on this site other than a single family home will be subject to the same typical city ordinances. All lights need to be shielded and downcast so that they're not shining on them to adjacent property. Uh, there were questions about access.
 Cross River Road is classified as a principal arterial which limits the number of curb cuts to one every 250 feet. And on top of that, there's an existing median there so that will be subject to the Arkansas Department of Transportation approval if they wanted to change that. And one final question was with regards to possible right of way access to this property from the east.
 There is a right-of-way stub out from the Candlewood neighborhood to the northeast, but it is not adjacent to this property. It abuts the property immediately to the east of the applicant's property. Another item I included in here for you for visualization purposes, this was created when the NSG zoning district was originally proposed. I can give you a bit of a scale, bulk, and area concept of how the buildings, the largest building size would be compared to the RSF4 zoning district.
 That said, getting the Planning Commission's recommendation, as I noted, they revised the request with the applicant's approval to NSG, Neighborhood Services General, and this was forwarded with a recommendation of approval to the City Council by a vote of 7 to 1. Staff continues to recommend the previously requested NSL zoning district, and we're not in support of the NSG zoning district, and I would be happy to take any questions you
 Thank you. What about the applicant? I'm sure they'd like to make a statement as well. Hang on just a minute. Would the applicant like to? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Jerry Jones, council members. Well, that was a lot said right there in that comment. I don't know how I can rebut all that. But what my wife and I would like to do tonight is ask for your support in changing our current
 zoning from RSF to the neighborhood services general. Crossover has changed a lot. And as he has pointed out, particularly on the east side, if you, Crossover Road to us has changed so much from going north in Township all the way to Joyce Boulevard. If you take a look out that side of the road, you won't see any houses at all.
 All the way. No houses have been built on Crossover Road since 1982, my house being the last. And we never dreamed at the time that when the highway was being widened that we'd be forced with this issue. We started construction on that in 2005, ended in 2006, and have been trying to sell lots on Crossover Road since.
 So that's a good bit of time to try. And like he said, I've been back two or three times trying to find some common ground where we could find a zoning area that could make crossover road work or encourage somebody to want to build a home there.
 But we've had developers out, we've talked to different people, but we've never had a serious buyer come forth and even try to negotiate a price with us in all these past several years. Crossover Road is, I supported the median. And I think Crossover Road has become a much safer road and a much more beautiful road.
 I know that they recently redid some work with the trees in the median, and when those trees start getting up that highway, it's going to be one of the most beautiful corridors we have in Fayetteville. So I'm proud to live on Crossover Road. But it's just time to go back to the drawing board. My wife and I talked about it and decided to contact the city.
 And we did, and I talked to Mr. Garner Stoll and Mr. Andrew Garner, and they were kind enough to come out and meet with me and walk the property and touch it and walk around it. And we come to the conclusion that Neighborhood Services Limited was a good way to go. But I want to point out to Mr. Stoll, I don't want to seem ungrateful to you for the work that you put forth and when you came out and talked to us
 But I didn't realize at the time that there was possibly something else that might help generate potential buyers on this property and So that's when but that was before the Planning Commission voted 7 to 1 To change it from neighborhood services limited to neighborhood services general and that really excited me because I felt like that when I read the differences, it was basically in square footage and
 I thought that could really be a really big help to me and my family. So I just feel like that that neighborhood services general is not being ungrateful again, but I think that neighborhood services general is the most applicable way for us to try to generate someone that's interested in buying this property. My wife and I plan on living there.
 And we want something nice to go in there. Like, we don't have any control once the property is sold. But I do have some control over who buys it and what they're going to put in there. If I'm going to live there, I certainly want something there that's going to look nice and be nice. So, being a little bit redundant here, but I want to follow up by saying...
 I really would appreciate your vote regarding neighborhood service in general. I just know it's the right way to go, and I would really appreciate your vote regarding that particular zone.
 And I just want to say I thank you very much for your time and everything for listening to me and everything. I do have my realtor here, Mr. Rick Shelton, that can say a few words regarding he's followed me along quite a way through this path. And he would like to say a few things. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Okay. Yes, please.
 RICK SHELTON, CULTURAL BANKER, REPRESENTING MR. JONES FOR SEVERAL YEARS IN THE SALE OF HIS PROPERTY. PREVIOUSLY I WAS A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND ASSISTED HIM BEFORE I BECAME HIS REALTOR IN GENERATING CONCEPTS FOR IDEAS AND HOW TO PREPARE THIS PROPERTY FOR A MARKET CONDITION.
 Its location is in a corridor of no commercial development as staff pointed out. There's a long distance between commercial nodes, Joyce and Mission, that's 2.4 miles. And so there's a lot of development in properties in that distance, but none of them have walkable access to services of any kind.
 Anybody who needs to get anything or get any service provided must get in their car and load that street. So this provides a potential for an opportunity to have small, traditional neighborhood-style village services. I think the recommendation for 8,000 square feet is actually a sensible one in this case because buildings can house...
 Buildings of a more substantial size can house multiple businesses, multiple shops, multiple professional offices, while having several residences above, meeting the sort of live-work style that traditional neighborhood development seeks, and greater opportunity for attainable housing as well.
 smaller footprints overall for the total business area, reduces impermeable surfaces, and expands the amount of additional space left around those buildings for pedestrian gatherings. So those are the reasons that we felt like
 that Mr. Jones felt that it would be advantageous to agree with the Planning Commission on their increase to the general category. And so I just wanted to conclude with the application of neighborhood services in this location to provide a pedestrian accessible
 node of small village-like services, I think it's suitable for all the surrounding neighborhoods there. Because those neighborhoods have a minimum of 3 quarters of a mile to walk to any other services. And if they're heading north to Joyce, it would be nearly two miles.
 I'LL LEAVE YOU WITH THAT AND IF I CAN ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS, PLEASE LET ME KNOW. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER Okay. LET'S GET STARTED HERE. WHAT QUESTIONS DO WE HAVE FROM THE COUNCIL FOR THE APPEAL AND OUR STAFF? JUSTIN? NEW SPEAKER I HAVE ONE ACTUALLY FOR THE REAL ESTATE PERSON AND THEN STAFF, IF I COULD. WHAT IS YOUR PROFESSIONAL OPINION ON THIS? I'VE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH A LOT OF PEOPLE AND SOME PEOPLE HAVE SAID THERE'S PLENTY OF
 retail space up and down 265. This is not your only client. I'm sure that you've bought and sold lots of commercial property all up and down that side of the city. So my question would be, in your opinion...
 Where are we with the availability of retail space up and down 265? Is there an abundance? Is there not enough? Is it close to enough? What are your thoughts on that? Well, there's two ways to think about it. There is an abundance. There are plenty of commercial opportunities remaining at the mission exchange in that entire commercial node.
 There are several for sale now, more that can come online in the future as LAM opens up or maybe prices get better. And at the Joyce node, there's a lot of commercial space, even some being developed now.
 But the second part of that is that there's a long distance between them. So applying the traditional neighborhood or the town theme to that means that there should be something in between that's walkable, something that allows all of those developments to have a place to go to get coffee, to get a book, to meet with their account, whatever.
 that those walkability issues should be made available, or those opportunities should be made available, and they're not. So the core commercial areas have a lot of opportunity for further development. There are properties for sale in both, but nothing in between that's walkable for neighborhoods. Thank you very much. Did that answer your question? Yeah, it did. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 And then I have a question for staff. Jonathan mentioned, and I don't want to put words in your mouth, but you were mentioning the wording in the city plan does allow for, I think you said, low intensity commercial. Was that what you said?
 That is correct on corners and connecting corridors. In your professional opinion, can you define what low intensity is? Is there a definition per se or is it situational? I think you are correct that it is situational in the matter of compatibility. Is it safe to assume that that?
 gray area there of what's low intensity and what's not part of the reason why city staff is
 at neighborhood limited as a better fit as opposed to the Planning Commission neighborhood general? Was it based on that sort of intensity level? Part of it was again about compatibility. It is a mostly residential area and the uses and size of the buildings allowed in the NSL zoning district are more comparable to what's existing in the area and can be very complimentary if developed under those zoning requirements.
 Councilman, I think the primary distinction between those two districts are the size of the buildings. The uses, both are mixed-use districts. Both allow vertical mixed use, horizontal mixed use, but in our opinion, given the very attractive pre-covered parcel that has some depth to it that is immediately adjacent to homes to the east.
 that the Limited really fit that parcel to a T in our mind. I thought it was an excellent district. Is it normal—and just educate me because there are so many zoning and so many details on each zoning.
 to go from limited to general if the biggest piece of that is building size you're you're more than doubling so there's there's no middle ground there you see what i'm saying you go from limited 3 000 to general 8 000. seems like a big jump
 to someone like me who is looking at it strictly in numbers to go from a relatively small building of 3,000 to 8,000 seems like a big jump with just one zoning change. I agree. Those are the two districts that we have available at this point. Right. But you certainly can make an argument for an in-between. I understand. Thank you very much. Okay. Other questions we have from the council? Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Now, let's lay out the rules here before we get all carried away here. Everybody gets one turn to the microphone. There's a five-minute limit, okay? I'm trying not to take over two and a half minutes. I understand that. Just hang on. And keep the comments to me, and don't engage anybody on the council or out in the audience, okay? So give us your name, address, and I guess we're ready to go. I'm J.B. Hayes, a close neighbor, 2595 Firewood.
 immediately to the north and east of this. The other property is zoned at RO immediately north of this. And I understand the close neighbors behind and immediately to the north do not object to this. And I do not have any objections. I think this would be the best way for it to go. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. My name is Paul Henry. I live at 2885 East Township. I represent my family in a small group of houses in Edenbrook.
 I feel for Mr. Jones. I understand his arguments and request for zoning, but I disagree with the proposal. I have issues with the compatibility. I present some public opposition to the logic in a reasonable fashion. There are issues with traffic and safety congestion. I believe that the domino effect will decrease adjoining land values.
 The city does not want spot zoning. This rezone is not consistent with the city plan of 2030. City Fayetteville invested a lot of time and money in the 2030 plan. That vision is residential for this area. It is close to schools, houses, church, and parks. It is not a walkable area. It is not walkable.
 This is not this road 265 and crossover is a high traffic high speed area that is best avoided on foot. I've seen multiple accidents since the upgrade. I've narrowly avoided being injured myself from people disregarding the traffic signals. This area has lots of people in and out of the area with school drop-offs pickups and homes. One stoplight to the south we have multiple areas to shop, eat, trade with dentists,
 fitness centers, arts banks, as well as dry cleaners. I'm concerned that if you allow this zoning change, it will have a domino effect that will creep back to the corner where there's a two-acre lot who would go see one. It seems logical.
 At the Planning Commission meeting, there were several disparate ideas concerned for the 2030 plan and safety were the primary concerns. Multiple people were concerned about the safety of this as a residential area because of the previous mentioned speed and traffic. So the next step was to go to office, anywhere between 1,000 and 8,000 square feet. So traffic is a concern for six lots, but if you put a business on it, it's not a concern.
 I run business here in Fayetteville. It depends on traffic, lots of traffic, that is safe and accessible. Do we need more office space? Increasing the traffic is not logical. What seems logical is to keep this residential. Several of the property owners adjacent, immediately adjacent to this property, were against the proposed zone change two years ago. They are not here tonight because they have some significant health issues.
 Mr. Jones had indicated in the previous meeting that they supported the change and I have got an indication that Dr. Reynolds and his son are not for it. One last issue that I have is he says no one has made an offer and I did a search on what the property values listed Covington and Candlewood, two local areas of development, started at 20, 30, maybe 60,000 an acre. Mr. Jones started at 145,000.
 So I believe that saying, I feel bad at wanting to say no, but logically this request should be not developed or passed. This is not a plan. It's just a change. Thank you. Mr. Henry? Mr. Henry?
 Can I just ask one quick question? Because I don't want to assume things. So before us tonight, we've got a neighborhood general zoning request where city staff has talked about neighborhood limited. Are you saying you're against both of those, or is one better than the other in your opinion? It's not a walkable area.
 And the inference that this would be a safe area to walk in and in the planning commission they said they wouldn't walk in the area of 265 and Mission and the traffic has light is well regulated and they obey the signals there. They run this red light going south and north all the time. And increasing the traffic count in that area I think is illogical.
 I have some ideas on what would make a better plan, and I mentioned that there are some life changes that have occurred in these other property owners. And I think going forward, if that was all residential, it could be put together. But I just don't think it's a good plan. Thank you for that. Mr. Henry, I just want to point out, I won't quite let you sit down yet.
 Sunday before last, I walked on 265 on Crossover Road from Mission to Joyce Street. And for you to say it's not walkable, I'm sorry. I just did it a week and a half ago. I don't disagree. I said it's not safe. There are sidewalks all up and down. It is. It is. But I avoid it with my children and my dog because the rape traffic. I don't know what's coming out of the back of the trucks.
 So it's an unsafe walkable area. And to do city services or... I've seen good walkable spaces where they design the space and then the houses around it. But you didn't have 70, 50-mile-an-hour cars passing that area. And...
 Prior to the prior council meeting, so I say it's unsafe. If we have cars going 70 miles an hour, police need to address that issue. No doubt. But like I said, my neighbor was almost killed because of someone blowing through that stoplight. That's a separate issue, but it's unsafe. That's my contention. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this?
 Mayor Jordan, my name is Kathy Wade. I live at 2863 East Township Street next door to Paul Henry. I echo the things that Paul said. I would like to be a little more specific about the traffic concerns that we have about putting a business on that property.
 Because of the median on crossover, there isn't a way for people traveling south on crossover to turn into that. They would have to go to the intersection of Township and either make a U-turn, which I don't think was designed to do that, or they would turn into Township and,
 And then Edenbrook has a private driveway that goes in and out, and people would quickly discover that they could cut through our private driveway that we would then have to maintain. So I have a concern about that, that people would use that as a turnaround in order to get back going north on Crossover.
 Or they would subsequently use Candlewood Street as a cut-through, which I don't think that the residents of Candlewood would be very excited about either. So I think that the planning for Crossover to be an arterial road doesn't allow for easy access for a business
 or multifamily units at that piece of property. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, who would like to be first? Jesse. Well, Mayor and Council, I...
 would ask respectfully that we would hold it here tonight for multiple reasons. This is a very different piece of property as it's been the last several times that it came up. It's created a lot of conversation, and it's created a lot of things that I have been involved with. I'll let Councilmember Bunch, my fellow three representatives, speak if she wants to. But what I...
 What I did was I sent multiple questions to city staff. Many of them have been answered, but I do have some more that I would like to get addressed over the coming days. There's a difference of opinion between city staff and planning commission, and I think that alone should give us some pause.
 in what we're doing here, because I think there's different reasons for that, and I still don't think I understand them enough to make a decision tonight. I contacted Devin Howland, our director of economic vitality, asking him questions around the –
 the need, if there is a need that exists for retail in that specific area and all along that area. We can all have opinions on is there too many, is there not enough, is there the right kind and all those sort of things, but I'd really like someone that specializes in economic development to answer that question.
 On initial reaction, he also mentioned talking to the Chamber of Commerce. I would like to reach out to Chung at the Chamber and get her opinion on this. I think getting the most opinions from professionals is important when we're making a decision like this. I think I'm clear on what can and can't be built there. There's a lot of misinformation around could it ever be gas stations, 24-hour things, all these high-traffic things.
 Those kind of businesses need high traffic, and I just can't imagine anyone would want to invest there to put a high traffic need business there because, again, the access is pretty limited. You do have to make a U-turn at that light, and I would even suggest maybe me or someone at City Staff contact the Highway Department and ask them if that turnaround is indeed
 as a turnaround because I don't know if that's a definition or if they built it for that. I know there's a U-turn down by the fire station at Old Wire and 265 that is built a little more differently than the one at Township.
 You can see there's a lot of things there that I think need to be addressed, and I'm not guaranteeing that I can get all those addressed, or if anyone else has any questions, everything can be done by the next meeting, but I can absolutely tell you that I don't think they've all been addressed tonight to make an informed decision, at least for me. So that's just my opinion, but I would ask that we leave it here at least until the next meeting so that we can get some of the other questions answered.
 Okay. We'll check with the highway department on a cut through there. I know Chris and I have taken – Chris, you might want to – I know we've taken a couple of those to the highway department, and they have not been –
 Well, supportive of any sort of cuts in there. I mean, maybe they've changed their mind. Yeah, if you'd like an answer about the U-turns, all the intersections are designed for U-turns. We specifically had to change the ordinance to allow U-turns at signalized intersections, but those kind of weird bulb-out widening areas around the intersections are designed for basically any large vehicle
 I think it's designed for buses. It's about the largest vehicle that could make a U-turn at those locations, but they are designed for U-turns. Okay. Chris, since you brought it up, I was about to ask it. Is there any differences in that vehicle
 The way that was built, was it in consideration of the nearby schools, you think? You mentioned buses. Do they take into consideration, in your opinion, the kind of traffic that's going to be going both east? I mean, they come from all angles out of Township from the Vandegrift-McNair area. I would say they probably didn't get into that level of detail of looking at that detailed traffic stream. They pick a design vehicle.
 And, you know, that was the size vehicle that they could reasonably design to allow for the U-turns. Okay. Well, there is a significant traffic increase there around 8 and 3 every day. I drive it every single day multiple times, so I know very, very well that. But, again, I never really examined the turnaround area there, so I didn't know if there were differences in how those were built. But it sounds like that one was built so you could—
 make a turnaround to then go from south to north. Right. Yeah. All of the intersections up and down, crossover in the median section are designed that way. OK. Thank you very much, Chris. Thank you, Mary. You're welcome.
 Anybody else? I assume we're going to leave this on the first. I'm sorry, Sarah, you had something you're about to push your little push the button. Okay. I agree with Mr. Tennant that, you know, I'd like to see this held until the next meeting. And I have, you know, when I look at this, I consider it from a couple of different perspectives and
 And it is true that we have, you know, we have quite a lot of, there's, you know, someone had sent me a letter, I forgot who it was, that said we've got 250 vacant commercial units around Fayetteville.
 Well, I just did a real quick search earlier today, and I didn't come up with that many, but I only searched one outlet. But that doesn't take into consideration the types of properties that are available, and some of the properties that might have been commercial properties in technically Fayetteville city limits, some of them were actually in Greenland and Elkins and Farmington, and they weren't right in the center of the east side of town. So, yeah.
 So that is something I look at, that I think there's possibly still more room for some commercial over there. And we also do not have the type of...
 development that could be put on this property that would allow living above the commercial, I don't think there's anything like that. I'd have to really rack my brain to see if there's anything quite like that around mission. There might be some around choice, but, you know, again, that's something I consider that I think about as a type of development that would go in there.
 But I have real concerns with the safety and the access to the property. So for those reasons alone, I think I'd like to see this tabled as well. Well, we're going to hold it. It'll be two weeks before it comes back anyway, if you want to hold it on the first reading. Let's hold it on the first one. All right. Everybody okay with that? All right. So we leave that one right there. Okay. Number nine.
 A resolution expresses City Council's support for an updated City Plan 2030. Garner, I believe you have this, or someone? Yes, sir. Mayor and Council, this project was originally scheduled for 2017 and for various reasons, including staff changes, was held until 2018.
 I thought I'd give you a little bit of background about comprehensive planning and the process and some thoughts that we've discussed with the Planning Commission for this update. I also wanted to show some alternatives to the 71B corridor study that respond to some issues that were surfaced at the agenda session last week.
 Quickly, comprehensive planning.
 It looks at the entire city, the future of the entire city. It's a long-range document. All good comprehensive plans should tell the community, work with the community to answer the question, where are we going? And more and more recently, the second question is relevant. We don't like to create shelf plans. So how we get there, what steps are needed, and how we measure progress is important.
 The FATL is growing and changing, and an update is certainly advisable periodically, as FATL has wisely done, to make sure the document is current and usable.
 But also to involve today's decision makers. Some of you were on the council when the last update was done. Some of the planning commissioners were on also, but some are new. And certainly the public needs to be given an opportunity to get involved in the future of Fayetteville.
 So, the process itself sometimes is as important as the plan that it produces. A bit of an overstatement, Dwight Eisenhower said, plans are nothing, planning is everything.
 The history of comprehensive planning in Fayetteville, the general plan was done in 1970, and the plans have been updated through the years, various times. I'm told that there was a council retreat in 2004, and the council decided that we needed to take a fresh look at the future of Fayetteville.
 It launched the effort that created City Plan 2025. That plan is a paradigm shift in terms of growth and development policy.
 The six goals are behind you. I don't need to belabor those. But the plan also has benchmarks and timelines where it's identified. It has the Future Land Use Master Street Plan and street cross sections, and it has general policies to guide annexation.
 The plan was last updated in 2011. Minor changes were made to Goal Number 6, and some additional benchmarks were added and amendments were made to the Future Land Use Map, Master Street Plan, and the street cross sections. I won't go into these in any detail, but we've talked to the Planning Commission, we've heard from various members of the community.
 And we keep hearing the idea that we need to define the term appropriate infill and suburban sprawl.
 And we need to use that definition and public input to create a growth concept map that might illustrate where you would consider expanding the city or not expanding the city, as well as what we mean by appropriate infill and creating a targeted infill map.
 Lots of topic area specific plans have been completed and we would look at updating those. We would do all the usual stuff that was done in 2011 as well as update the charts and maps with current data. So coming to the College Corridor Plan.
 There is a budget rollover, not a large amount, to pay for consultant services for this update. Many of the work products that were identified looked like they lend themselves to internal staff work.
 So, we are recommending that that money be used to pay for the corridor plan. Last week's proposal that I presented was that that plan should be from North Street to the northern city limits.
 Since then, the mayor has recommended that we add the southern Cato Springs to Prairie
 I talked yesterday with Councilmember Marsh and also today, and Councilmember Marsh is suggesting that we also add the part in green, which is from Prairie Street to rock the Archibald Yale diagonal cutoff to this study.
 I think it's important to recognize it's a little bit different than the other blue parts because, first of all, it's a diagonal cutoff. It's also being addressed in the mobility plan that's almost finished that's coming to you shortly. Much of the engineering background work has been done on that section as well as some proposed street cross sections have been produced.
 Certainly Chris Brown can answer any questions about that if you have questions about that. So at this point I'd like to give Council Member Marsh a chance to, she suggested the green part. Well let me throw something in there. The reason I didn't put that particular in, I sent a plan similar to this to the transportation committee probably five or six years ago which they felt we needed to continue north first.
 And the reason I had not included the Archipelago Yell is that Nelson Nygaard has this on their transportation plan, but if you want to put that in there, that's fine too. I'm not wrapped around an axle one way or the other on that. Well, I did a little bit of research into our planning history, and in the Fayetteville Vision 2020 plan, which was completed in 2004, goal number five was a revitalized South Fayetteville.
 In the downtown master plan that was also completed in 2004, it listed as under immediate projects, redesign of Archibald Yale Boulevard. It also listed in our generation, redevelopment and infill along Archibald Yale. If you look back at the Walker Park master plan from 2008,
 It designates that we should complete the South School Avenue corridor, develop it with appropriate infill along the corridor to transform it into a destination that contributes to the vibrancy of downtown and the fabric of Walker Park neighborhood.
 If you look at the amount of private investment that has gone into just Walker Park alone, because that's where I could find statistics, in the last 10 years, just on single-family homes, we've had over $12 million in new construction and $1.8 million in renovation. And that does not include any of the apartment complexes like Hill Place or The Grove,
 Nor does that calculate the almost 300 homes under construction by Roush Coleman in that neighborhood right now and the anticipated 80 homes at Willow Bend, approximately 80, and the relocation of public housing down there. Recently, the Innovation Council, in their efforts to help us become the startup city of the South, reiterated the importance of connecting the square to the Arkansas Research and Technology Park down on Cato Springs Road. This is the gateway to our city from the South.
 It is the gateway to our commerce district, to the research and technology park. It's a vital corridor between the new U of A arts and design district and the city's new arts corridor. And it connects Jennings addition to Washington Elementary School.
 So, with that in mind, I think that we absolutely need to move forward on including Archibald Yale Boulevard. I've got it. I mean, and I wanted to be sure you all were okay with that before I put that in there. The old plan that I had sent to the Transportation Committee, I don't know, it's been five or six years ago, recommended going south. Right.
 But the advice given to me was to go north first and then come back south. But being that we're doing the study on the whole thing, I told Garland to go ahead and include the area at least from MLK to Cato. But if you want to put Archibald Young in there too, I know. I mean, I think we've seen a lot of – we've seen recent petitions from the neighborhood. I mean, there is a need there. And a very dense residential area within walking distance of downtown. Yeah.
 So we'll put Archipelago in there, I assume, as well. Just so council knows what the process is from here, assuming you add these extra segments to your resolution going forward, we would do an addendum to the RFP that is out on the street right now. It would add about three weeks to the process.
 It would also involve additional funding. We would write the addendum that that is subject to the Council's approval, so the consultant teams would know that that action is still pending. And then the contract, once the consultant team is selected,
 The contract is negotiated and it has to come back to the council for approval.
 Finally, those of us on the staff side, we're excited about doing this plan. We've recruited a talented team that involves communications, community resources, development services, planning, engineering, sustainability, and resilience.
 We have an ambitious work plan to get it done quickly. We are already working on ideas for public outreach.
 some of the innovative methods that were used with the Energy Action Plan. We then would come back to you with that result, so we would check back with you after the public outreach phase. We would check back with you with a draft plan. And then finally, the last phase is the formal adoption process through the Planning Commission and Council.
 So, with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 I'm encouraged by the plan. I think we're moving forward. To those of Councilmember Marsh and Councilmember Gray, I'm excited about the development I see in South Fayetteville. I see new buildings going up. I see new housing. It's exciting to see that part of the city being modernized and growing with development. I have this issue with infill. I have nothing against infill.
 I like for people to live where they want to live. And for those people who want to live in downtown and live above a shop, it's fine. Nothing wrong with that. But some people like to live on the edge of things. I don't want to exclude them. I want variety in the marketplace so everybody can be satisfied with what they want. So I'd hate for us to define infill so narrowly that we preclude development on the edge of town.
 So, recognize that not everybody wants to live in downtown areas. Not everybody likes mixed use. I like mixed use, but not everybody's like me, as we can tell. And maybe you'd say, great, thank you, we don't want everybody to be like John Latour. But we need variety in the marketplace, and that's the drum I've been beating for three years now.
 So, I'd like for us to, when we address these definitions of infill and suburban sprawl— Appropriate infill. Appropriate infill, exactly. I'd like for us to define them more broadly so as to not preclude development on the edge of things, and that's what I'd like to see. So it gives me pause when I read the notes here in our packet where they define these—these
 primary or six paramount goals we have to have. And I guess it concerns me just those definitions. And if we can get those definitions right, I can support this. So I do support in general the revision of the plan. That's just what my concerns are. You asked what I thought, Mary. Well, I mean, but how do you want to address that, John?
 I mean, I'm just asking. Right. Well, I don't want to preclude people's choice. I like choice. I like variety in the marketplace. So I don't want to define infill so narrowly that we say you can't have a two-acre lot on the edge of town. Maybe that's not exactly the definition of infill, but I think we still need those kinds of developments also.
 for those people who want that. And for those people who want to live in the downtown area and live in a mixed use, that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But at some point, we have to admit, if we continue to adjust infill, we're going to fill up, theoretically. That's sort of the point. Exactly. So we don't sprawl anymore. Well, the sprawl is just the growth of the city. At some point, if we don't expand our city borders,
 Then we'll run out of space. Then everybody that builds in Northwest Arches will be building in some other municipality. At some point, theoretically, and I'm not saying we're at that point, but we need to consider the future of our city. And when I look at the map, in my ward, we're already bumping up against Farmington. And going north, we're bumping up against Johnson. We're going to run out of land space that we can go, because other municipalities—
 that our neighbors don't always see things the way we see them, and they'll just gobble it up.
 But in 2006, the citizens, and I remember being a council member, helped define those growth boundaries, which was looper road on one side and crossover road on the other, and then for us first to work with infill into the city. That was direction that was given by the citizens to a council that I sat on, Adele and I.
 And I remember that very well. So that is what we have worked with. I don't have any qualms with infill development for those people who want to live in those places and want to live in that kind of development. But I don't want it to preclude other people from having other options. When they want other options, they prefer to live that way. I have people in my ward who want to live on the edge of town, not in the middle of town. They like their quiet solitude.
 And I don't see anything wrong with that either. I don't want to preclude those developments. I want there to be choice for everybody. That's the idea. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. What else? Do we... Oh, sir.
 Thank you. I did want to go ahead and speak in support of the update of the plan. I think that it's fantastic that we're doing this, and I'm glad that we're going to be able to leverage staff to do a considerable amount of the work that we would normally outsource. I just do want us to be cautious and recognize that there is a lack of diversity in our planning and development services group, and we need to ensure that all of the citizens are well represented.
 And so we need to be sensitive to the fact that we do have a lack of diversity on our team and make an extra effort to hear from different voices in the community. I can assure you that. What public comment do we have?
 Hello Mayor Jordan and council members. My name is Sonia Gutierrez, address 127 East Connor Street, and I'm in support of amending the existing plan, which would include the part from North Street to add Archibald Yale especially, and I would love it to actually go all the way down to Cato Springs. I feel like there's a huge population of people that are walking in that area, and I would love it to actually go all the way down to Cato Springs.
 And having lived there and had a business there for 12 years, I constantly saw tons of people trying to get across Archibald Yale to go to the farmer's market, to go to the library, to pay utilities,
 with strollers, trying to walk across there. So we just want to, I think it's worth the three weeks that you said, and I think it's worth the time and the energy to consider those people. They've been working, residents have been working very diligently to organize themselves to figure out ways to make this happen. So I think it's absolutely worth the time.
 and the energy. I also think that it's going to greatly benefit people who are utilizing the services of Seven Hills, Life Sources and Salvation Army. There are tons of people that are always walking on that street in that area. Students who are using the research and technology park and lots of families with strollers. I've seen lots of people in more parts of any other park
 with wheelchairs in that area. And I think it might be part of the same population. So I support the amendment. I feel like it aligns with our mobility plan. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Okay.
 I just want to real quickly, some of the things you said, Alderman Latour, I think are worth talking about. The reason we talk about infill so much is because that's what's in demand and what's hard to do. Housing prices in downtown Fayetteville have more than doubled in the last five or six years. They have not more than doubled anywhere else in the city. The reason they've doubled is because that's where demand so, so much outstrips supply.
 It is our rules create more or less a very, very level playing field whenever you want to build single family homes in a subdivision. And they make it very difficult to do infill development. So we actually have an incredible mismatch.
 in our rules in terms of what they encourage and what people want. We're actually distorting the market towards single-family sprawl development today when people want more infill development than we have allowed to happen. So I don't think that we're in any danger of outlawing the kinds of processes that we
 projects that you're advocating for, but we have already made it more difficult to develop in an infill manner, and that's why we talk about it so much. It's not that sprawl is under attack, it's that infill has been under attack for decades and we need to correct it. Okay. Sure. So just for a point of order, do we need to amend the existing policy
 resolution to change the North College to okay so I propose that we amend to change it from North College to the 71 business corridor to if you actually look at the resolution it doesn't speak of North College but what I would suggest that you do it talks about upgrading the plan
 And I would say, I would add these words, to include study of Archibald Yale Boulevard and South School Avenue to Cato Springs Road. I think that the exhibit might have talked about College Avenue, but if you want to change the resolution, make a motion on that, and if you add those words in, then I think that would be clear to the department. Okay, so I move that we add the words the kid just said.
 I do would like a little direction from the council because we do have Nelson Nygaard that's doing a study of that particular area of road. I believe that's correct, isn't it? So what do you want me to do exactly with that? Well, I think that the new consultants will just use the Nelson Nygaard as a starting point in whatever their recommendations are, and so it really will give them a jump start on whatever they want to propose. So they can just use that as a starting point. So my—
 My understanding is that the starting point would be the work that they've done. They've done the traffic engineering. They've done some cross-section design. We wouldn't be redoing that. We would negotiate a contract to look at how that—
 In other words, new people wouldn't go back and redo that whole thing again? No. Their mission would be to take those cross sections and see how it affects the adjacent development and the zoning.
 that's my that's my interpretation i just want to be sure that i don't get in a position where somebody said well mayor it's interesting that you had one study and then you added another study so we want to be sure that we're not paying for something twice i just want to be clear on that so we'll take what they have done and we'll add this new study to that yes sir okay all righty i have it all right so that's the amendment
 There has been a motion. Is there a second? Yeah. Kyle. I'll second the motion. Is there any public comment on the amendment? Okay. Bring it back. We have a motion and a second on the amendment. Is there any comments or discussions on it from the council anymore? Okay. Sunridge Police Call Room. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Stein. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 All right, now, let's see, we are on, we need a motion to second to pass the resolution as a whole from somewhere. Sarah? I move we pass the resolution. Kyle? I'll second. All right. What discussion do we have on the resolution? Anything? Okay. Any comments on the resolution as a whole? No.
 Okay, bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number 10, a resolution to amend the 2018 adopted budget by reappropriating $97,779,000 in bondage or ongoing capital projects out of the state
 outstanding obligations, and grant-funded items. Paul. As the council approved the 2018 budget, that essentially was the operating budget plus new capital for 2018. The issue we have in Arkansas is we have a timing issue because budgets only provide for a one-year fiscal period. So we have a timing issue with grants.
 with bonds that are remaining, with capital programs in progress, and for contracts that have been entered into that have not yet been completed. So each and every year I come back with those particular items and ask that we update the budget to include those items. This year that amount is $97.7 million dollars.
 The reason this is about $30 million more than we normally do, we normally take in an amount
 And approximately $60 million is this year. We need to include the contract for the, or excuse me, the bond issue for the library, which is roughly $27 million. So the reason we do this is because of timing. Timing of the grants don't coincide with our fiscal year. We have ongoing capital projects that span multiple years. Those are the basic reasons we have this. Two points I'd like to make. Number one, these were all previously authorized by the council.
 So in other words, they were authorized in previous years. Secondarily, anything over $20,000 that we have to enter into a contract with a third party for, again, comes to the council at that point in time. So you've approved these already.
 You'll get a second chance to approve them if they go under contract. There are some of the items that are done in-house, but those have already been approved also. So that's the basic reason for this amendment. This will take the budget up to roughly $259 million, which is pretty typical. Normally the budget, by the time we end, is about $250 million.
 $50 million. So I hate to call this something that's housekeeping, but in a sense it is because we're adding the previously approved things to the current time period for completion into 2018. $60 million of this is in the capital program, and we just discussed the capital program recently.
 $30 million is associated with bond issues. If we look at which funds are affected, the largest fund affected, of course, is the library, $27 million. $23 million would be for water and sewer. And obviously, we've got a lot of capital improvements and capital plans to implement for water and sewer. Yes, that's our biggest operating enterprise fund.
 The next biggest one is, in fact, the Sales Tax Capital Fund, which is there to do capital projects. So essentially, that's the rundown of what this is. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. OK. What questions have Paul on this? OK. What public comment do we have on this? OK. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. May we approve the resolution? John.
 Look at that motion, Mayor. All right. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution.
 Any final comments? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Okay. Number 11. A resolution to accept and adopt the pay plan committee's recommendations for the new criteria for market studies to approve a change order to the contract with your Henson Consulting
 contingency, I'm sorry. I lost my place there. Fees by the amount of $5,500 for the annual market studies and consulting and to approve a budget adjustment. All right, who has it? Brenda?
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening. Brenda Reed, HR Director. Last year, the Pay Plan Committee was formed to make recommendations to City Council regarding new criteria for market studies. The committee members consisted of council members, administration, one representative from each labor management group, police, fire, and merit,
 THE PAY PLAN COMMITTEE MET SEVERAL TIMES LAST YEAR TO DISCUSS AND DETERMINE THEIR PROPOSED RECOMMENDATIONS OF CRITERIA FOR FUTURE MARKET STUDIES WITHIN THE CITY. THEY PROPOSED THREE CATEGORICAL RECOMMENDATIONS. ONE, DATA SOURCES. WHERE DOES THE MARKET DATA COME FROM? TWO, SURVEY FREQUENCIES. HOW OFTEN DOES THE CITY ENGAGE IN MARKET STUDIES? THREE, BENEFIT OFFERINGS. WHAT BENEFITS ARE THE CITY'S COMPETITORS OFFERING THEIR EMPLOYEES?
 BASED ON COMPETITIVE LABOR MARKETS OF WHERE APPLICANTS ARE SOURCED AND HIRED FROM FOR THE VARIOUS LABOR GROUPS IN THE CITY, THE COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RELEVANT DATA SOURCES ARE FOR ALL LABOR GROUPS IN THE CITY, FOUR ARKANSAS CITIES. BENTONVILLE, ROGERS, SPRINGDALE, AND JONESBOROUGH. ONE REGIONAL CITY SIMILAR IN DEMOGRAPHICS TO THE CITY OF PHAITVILLE, LAWRENCE, KANSAS.
 Additionally, due to competition in the labor market with private industry, Tier 1 merit positions will include the Northwest Arkansas Human Resources Association, or NOARC, study, the DOL Northwest Arkansas study. Additionally, Tier 2 and 3 merit positions will include Comp Analyst Study and the Comp Data Study.
 To stay in touch with competitive labor markets, the committee considered market study frequency. The committee recommends implementing a market study every year, alternating with police and fire uniformed and merit employees. The following schedule is recommended. For 2018, police and fire uniformed, 2019 merit. 2020, police and fire uniformed, and 2021 merit.
 Lastly, the committee considered the value employer benefits offer to employees as part of a total rewards package. The committee recommends gathering information of five benefit offerings from the data sources for the two labor groups of police and fire uniformed and merit.
 The five police and fire uniform benefit offerings proposed for gathering data are 1. Retirement 2. Medical Dental 3. Time Off 4. Certification Pay 5. Longevity Pay The five merit benefit offerings proposed for gathering data are 1. Retirement 2. Medical Dental 3. Time Off
 4. Shift or on-call pay 5. Education reimbursement The budget impact for 2018 requires a change order increase in the amount of $5,500. The additional funding is necessary for the Johansen Group to conduct a market study and provide a report with their recommendations. What questions may I answer for you?
 Well, I can tell you the committee met for several months, which I certainly want to thank the committee's work on this because it was quite a... We had members of the city council, fire and police, non-uniform. Paul was on that committee. Don was on that committee. Did I leave anybody out? Non-uniform. So it was several months of we'd meet every...
 couple three weeks for several months and we came up with several conclusions and some of it was certainly daunting at times but this is the recommendations that came out of the committee was the unanimous vote
 We will answer any questions that we can. I know that four of the council members was on that committee, so I'm sure they can fill in whatever I may have left out. And we can take public comment also.
 Hello, I'm Jimmy Vaniard, representative of the Firefighters Association. I'd like to thank Mr. Lutour, Ms. Bunch, the Mayor, Mr. Petty, and Ms. Gray on their attendance to the meetings and the items that we reviewed. I appreciate it. I asked for the meeting. I valued your time. It was very important. I was going to ask, in our last portion of that meeting, there was quite a few small items that were motioned in.
 approved in there. I just wanted to make sure that that's part of what this full recommendation, there was a few items that were recommended that weren't mentioned. So I just wanted to confirm that the full committee recognized all those. I think the list that Brenda gave was what the committee voted in. Is that not correct, Brenda?
 I JUST WANT TO REVIEW THE LAST PORTION OF THE MINUTES WHERE IT TALKED ABOUT THE MOTION NOT TO USE BENEFIT PACKAGES VERSUS THE SALARY AND IT WOULD MEET THE AVERAGE MARKET OF THE WAGES AND THAT THE BENEFITS WOULD BE WHAT SETS US APART OR ABOVE MARKET. I BELIEVE THAT WAS THERE IF I'M REMEMBERING IT. IT JUST WASN'T MENTIONED IN THE.
 Well, I thought the discussion in the committee voted on a total compensation package. Is that not correct? Okay. I just think it was discussed in that matter, so I thought that they would understand it that way. Okay. Thank you for dying. Welcome. Anyone else? And, Paul, maybe you can define the total compensation package or Brenda or somebody here. What does that mean? It's where you combine the benefits and the salary.
 I MENTIONED THE TOTAL REWARDS PACKAGE, SO WHAT WE'LL BE LOOKING AT IS COMPENSATION ACROSS OUR DATA SOURCES FOR THE VARIOUS UNIFORMED AND FIRE POLICE AND THE MERIT GROUPS AND THEIR TIERS.
 but we'll also be taking into consideration what benefits that those data sources offer and what value that that brings to our labor groups. And so the value of those benefits that I,
 SHARED WITH YOU THE RETIREMENT, THE MEDICAL, THE DENTAL, THE CERT PAY, THE LONGEVITY. THOSE TYPES OF BENEFITS WILL BE EXPLORED AND REVIEWED WHEN WE DO THAT MARKET STUDY. SO THEY WILL ALL BE CONSIDERED AS PART OF WHAT THE DATA SOURCES OFFER FOR THEIR TOTAL REWARDS PACKAGE SO WE CAN LOOK AT HOW COMPETITIVE WE ARE.
 I'm still not quite clear on this.
 I know that we're going to consider all these things, but will we be considering them independently of one another? Because I think the concern from fire and police is that having that salary, the actual pay, and then the benefits are what set us apart. Whereas if we're kind of looking at a combined picture, they may not receive the market rate salary that they're looking for. So are we going to be looking at these groups individually?
 Or will there be a distinction between the pay and the benefits that we're looking at? Or will it be combined into one value? I think there's a distinction between the two, but they'll be looked at as a total rewards package.
 for what the city offers, for what we value. So the five benefits that I listed, police and fire uniformed chose five benefits that they found value in. Merritt, the representative there, she listed the five benefits that the Merritt folks found value in.
 So, we'll be looking at what other data sources are providing for benefits for their employees and then we'll be looking at our benefits and comparing those to see how that value adds up. But we'll be benchmarking them individually so we can see if there's a discrepancy between the benefit value and the salary. Absolutely. Yes. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. You're welcome.
 I think the confusion here is coming from this resolution being about the study itself and then the committee also looked at compensation policy, which is different from the study itself. And if I recall, and I may not recall this correctly, it's been a while, but if I do recall correctly what Jimmy is referring to, I think there was a vote that we were going
 uh establishing parity in terms of the salary and outperforming in terms of the benefits yeah because there was a lot of discussion on lofty one and lofty two the difference in those two and there's a significant amount of difference in those two we're one of the few cities in the states doing two i don't know you know paul you remember how many is doing
 On the lofty two, do you remember how many cities is doing lofty two? I believe there are only two left. Two. I think there are two left. And then they drop theirs down. So we took all that into consideration because that's a big benefit that we have to pay. And I know that we're sort of...
 summarizing here, but I mean there was hours and hours and hours of discussion on all kinds of stuff. I know Adela and Matt and John and Sarah and I went through. It was long periods of time looking at all the, what other cities are doing and you know when we looked at the cities that we were using.
 And the old, there's like 21 of them, I believe. Twenty-three. And then, you know, so we decided that now that the region has got where it's got, we thought we needed, you know, parity with the cities of the region to see what they're doing. Yeah.
 And we found our parity from the labor force is of where we're sourcing from and where we're losing folks to. So those were very important factors on those data sources for the Arkansas region. And I was on the first pay plan committee, and we were recruiting from all over the United States, but we started looking at where we were recruiting from, and I was...
 I can't remember the exact numbers, but I want to say we were averaging over 70% recruiting from right here. That's correct. Yeah, it was in excess of that. One was a little higher than the other, and I can't remember which one it was. But, you know, it's like we're getting our folks from right in this region, right in this area. Sure. Mayor, what gives me great hope is...
 You're a man of your word, and you told us if we can achieve sales tax increases, you'll share that with our employees, and I appreciate that very much. That's a very reasonable position. So we can debate about the very finesse, what we were talking about, and how we can calculate things, but the bottom line is your integrity and integrity
 I trust that. And we have disagreements among us here about zoning things and whatnot. I think to a man and woman on this council, none of us want to take advantage of our police or our fire or our C-staff. We all want to do what's right by you. And I think you have to believe us for that. And I tell the policemen in the fire particularly, you guys are laying your lives on the line every day and every night, for me and my children, my wife and my family.
 And that deserves respect and that deserves fairness and dealing. So remember that as we debate what we said and what we agreed to. We want to do what's right by you. That would be my bottom line. Do you want to add anything? Adela? Anything else, Matt? Mayor, I move we approve the resolution. Okay. Yes. Okay.
 Do we have a second? Sarah? I second that. All right. Any final comments? I want to thank the committee's work on this. It was a good, hard-working committee. Y'all really did a good job. And the staff. I want to thank the fire and police for being there, too, and your input on this thing. Okay? And the non-uniform. I don't think I've left anybody out of this good-sized committee. All right. Having said that, Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letourne? Yes. All right, number 12. Thank you all very much. Number 12, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $500,000 to appropriate emergency funding for work to repair damages caused by the flooding of April and May 2017 and water damage to the Arkansas Air and Military Museum.
 caused by a burst pipe in January 2018. Paul. Paul Bromley, Okay. As the council will recall, in April 2017, we had some severe flooding, not only in northwestern Arkansas but throughout the state. It was declared a national emergency. We ascertained the damage. FEMA came in to work with us for potential federal reimbursement.
 We are finally getting to the point that we are negotiating with FEMA. The negotiations are pretty well done and we are ready to finish phases of that work. Of course, the immediate work and the immediate damage is taken care of right away. That will be subject to reimbursement, but we still have some contractual work to do to finish this.
 I am requesting is a half a million dollars appropriation. This will come from the Copy Replacement and Disaster Fund. We have $3 million set forth in that for physical or natural disasters. That's where we use it. We'll use a half a million dollars there to fix these, the two primary places of damage. Actually, there are three. Sweetbriar has some...
 some bank failure that needs to be taken care of. The regional park has sustained substantial damage, which is going to cost in the neighborhood of $400,000 to repair. And we also had some sewer overflow issues and damage on old wire that needs to be redone. So this appropriation would allow us to get the work done by contractors.
 be reimbursed as much as possible by FEMA. That will be about 75% of the total, 25% of it. We're going to have to pay the cost, but we'll take it out of that fund, and that will address this damage, taking advantage of federal funding as much as possible. Again, Disaster Recovery Fund, that's exactly where it's there, $3 million for this type of work.
 And, of course, this is all reimbursable. That's why we have to take it out of there. But I'll be happy to answer questions. Any questions for Paul? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Back to the council. Adele. I move we pass the resolution. Okay. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Mayor, I have two announcements.
 The city facility that offers mulch is announcing that there is free mulch available at our facility at 1708 South Armstrong Avenue, available Tuesdays and Thursdays in February from 8 until 3 and on March 3rd from 8 until noon, and this is to make room for incoming materials. So we need to get the old out and put the new in.
 And then finally, it's a little early to announce, but we have set the dates for bulky waste cleanup. I won't go into those dates. They don't begin until late March. We'll do that later. It'll be on our website. But people can start cleaning out their garages and attics and get ready for the bulky waste cleanup that happens March through May. Thank you. Okay. Any other announcements? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.