I'm going to go ahead and call the City Council meeting of February the 2nd, 2021 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Bunch. Kirk? Here. Here.
 Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you, Carrie. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, and I am present. Thank you.
 with a limited number of essential support staff. City council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Fayetteville and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including
 contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting, viewing through federal government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. To request to speak during the public comment period, you must raise your virtual hand to be recognized.
 If you're accessing the meeting through a smartphone, tablet, or computer, please click the raise hand option to request to speak during public comment period. If you're calling into this meeting by phone, please press star nine to raise your virtual hand for public comment. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone.
 For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions in the search bar. I will provide longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote.
 if public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers will be only allowed to speak for three minutes the city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent for majority vote so let us begin uh the first order business tonight is our monthly financial report from paul becker good evening mayor and council
 This is the report for December. So this is where we are at year end for fiscal 2020. The patterns are being followed that roughly have been in place since, since Mark and the general fund sales tax for the city. One penny was up 6%. The sales tax for the County was up 7.9%. We talked about that earlier.
 at the agenda session. All in all for the year in the general fund, sales tax were up 6%. If we look at overall for the year in the general fund, sales tax were up 6%, property taxes were down three, franchise fees were down three, alcohol and beverage taxes and permits were down roughly 15%.
 Building permits ended down a little bit, 5% down. Charges for services were down from, driven by mostly parks and the park programs. Courts were down roughly 20% for fee collections and fines. The one thing that came that offset a lot of this, as we talked about before, was a change in legislation for 911 fees.
 where the city was increased for that. And so we're up in 911 fees, roughly $800,000. We talked about when we discussed the pay plan, we'll actually finish with a surplus in the general fund this year. That's going to pay for our increases that we delayed until this period of time.
 Also, I will advise the council at this point in time, part of those increases in the 911 fees, we will probably later have to pay for some capital outlay, although that hasn't been defined at this point in time. So all in all.
 was a very good year for the general fund. Remember, we were budgeted at a $1.3 million deficit. We made up for that. And a lot of that had to do with expense control. We had a lot of expense control. We functioned under good money management.
 Travel was cut back. We conserved on fuel as much as possible in many other areas, but very satisfied with how the general fund turned out. We're in a good position looking forward. We don't know, again, how long this coronavirus is going to be with us, but I feel we're in a good position going into 2021 in the general fund at this point in time.
 When I looked at the street fund again, the street fund we've talked about most of the year has been up. That is because of the wholesale gasoline tax that was passed at the last legislative session. We were not aware of that and did not, in fact, anticipate that. So we're up about 5% driven by that wholesale gasoline tax.
 Expenses again were under control in the street fund. We had some savings there. So we'll be up roughly $700,000 in fund balances. We'll have a surplus in the street fund. Now I've talked about the positives. Let's talk a little about the ones where we had a little more trouble. The revenues for the parking fund
 in the month of December were 42% of what they were last year. I think that's a little to be expected. Remember in December we had a lot of visitors who come
 to the city, especially the square, the Dixon Street, an entertainment district, especially driven by the lights of the Ozarks. We had the lights of the Ozarks this year. However, we did have a little cold snap. And of course, many of the restaurants and bars were limited in capacity.
 For the year, we collected roughly 60% of what we did for the prior year for the parking fund. When I look overall at the parking fund, we're going to sustain a loss of about $500,000 this year. Now, roughly $300,000 of that was capital, so we've got about a $200,000 loss in operations.
 I expect that to get better in 2021. We were able to absorb that in reserves, but we have also lowered the operating expenses going into 2021. And I'm confident that we can meet operations that point in time, still not be money available for art support. And we talked about that before.
 we'll have to use everything we can in operations. But again, we've trimmed back capital in the parking fund next year, and I'm pretty confident we'll be okay in operations there, even though we could sustain some losses there. We have made the parking payments. Those are not in danger for the bond, so we've got all the debt service payments. When we look at HMR, Parks Development,
 The month we were down about 15%. Again, I would associate that with not as much traffic for Christmas because of the reduction in capacity in our restaurants and bars at that point in time. But we have to remember when we look back to April, May, and June,
 We were down an average of 35% for HMR taxes, so we've come back fairly strongly. We're going to have about a $300,000 budget loss for the year. However, that's sustainable, and we do have the reserves to accommodate that. So even though we'll have somewhat of a loss,
 We're going into 2021. We cut back capital and I'm confident that 2021 will be much better for HMR taxes and that pays for parks development. Recycling and trash collection, we're down about 2% in revenues. It's about $280,000. However,
 We have made up for that in reduction in expenses because the trash that is being hauled to the landfill and other operations have been reduced in conjunction with the lower demand. Residential demand and residential revenue again was up. Commercial has been scaled back, especially full charges and things of that nature.
 recycling, actually cardboard was up. The money we got for recycling cardboard was up compared to what we had estimated. And
 So we have ended up roughly breaking even in the recycling and trash collection fund. We'll be down maybe $80,000, but that's very minimal compared to what we had expected. As far as water and sewer, it's up about 3% in build revenue. Water sales are up.
 much higher than sewer, that's to be expected. We have a lot of hand washing, things of that nature, because people are following a lot of the directives of the set up by the health board and the state health.
 for cleanliness, et cetera, to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus. That's the build revenue that we have. The one issue that we've talked about before, we have not been cutting off individuals because of the inability to pay. So we have a rising dollar value in the late payments
 We're up about five, we have about $500,000 due that is over four months due. So all in all our accounts receivable is up about a million dollars in the water and sewer fund, even though our billed revenue is up 6%. However, we have a pretty fair reserve in water and sewer fund at this point in time.
 The last fund to discuss today is airport. Airport gas sales were down about 15%. We're gonna have operating losses in the area of $100,000 or so, that's in operations. We're at the airport this year. Again, we're gonna have to watch that carefully going into next year.
 Hopefully things are going to turn around. Their activity has increased a bit, so we'll see how that plays off. All in all, I think when we look at the year of 2020, we look at the coronavirus and the challenges that we face. City of Thetfield did very well financially, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. We do have adjustments.
 for year end so the financial statements will not be issued until June, which is normal. And at that point in time, I'll give you an indication of how we finally wound up. But with that, I will be more than happy to answer any questions for activity of the month of December or any of the things I've covered with you at this point in time. What questions do we have, councilor? Paul, I have a question.
 Sure. You talked about in parking that you were able to lower operating expenses. Could you go into that just a tiny bit more? Yes, we've cut back. Obviously we cut back because we didn't need the help for the entertainment. Since we didn't have entertainment parking, we didn't have to have temporary people there. We've also had two individuals who have transferred to other departments within the city.
 for job openings that we don't intend to replace until the parking volume comes back. So that's what we have lowered essentially in operations in parking. Of course, last year, we were not able to fund any of the budgeted amount for the art support. So that's essentially where we have cut back in the parking fund. Thanks. A little question Sue Ann.
 Thank you, Paul. All right, let's move on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the January 5th, 2021 and January 7th, 2021 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a proposal from King Electric Contractors Incorporated
 in the amount of $50,050 pursuant to bid number 20-58 for electrical services associated with square lighting and electrical improvements project to approve the project tendency in the amount of $5,005 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 parks improvement bond project. Number three, a resolution to approve the conveyance of,
 General underground utility easement to Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation, Ozarks Go, and AT&T across a portion of Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain to place the overhead utility lines underground for aesthetic and safety purposes. Number four,
 a resolution to authorize a contract with Open Edge, a division of Global Payments for processing parks and recreation credit card transactions.
 Number five, a resolution to approve an agreement of understanding with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the reconstruction of a section of Razorback Greenway across the Lake Federal Dam to authorize the mayor to sign additional documents as necessary to utilize $150,000 in federal aid funds through the recreational trails program and to approve a budget adjustment to recognize the revenue.
 Number six, a resolution to approve an encroachment permit agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad Company and a contract with Titan RBR Properties LLC for utility relocation associated with a multifamily development on Razorback Road. Number seven, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Development Consultants Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 20-01-20.
 Selection number 26 in an amount not to exceed $46,790 for the design of a 12-inch gravity sewer main along Razorback Road. Selection number 8, a resolution to approve change order number 1 to the water main installation cost share agreement with Buckington Ware LLC in the amount of $70,064.16.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve change order number four to the contract Nelson-Baird-Wilson LLC in the amount of $65,000 for the development of an operations and maintenance strategy for the outdoor public space and the cultural arts corridor project. Number 10.
 A resolution to authorize an application for a 90-10 assistance to firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $300,000 for the purchase of two brush truck vehicles for the fire department. Number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Chevrolet Tahoe from Chevrolet of federal in the amount of $36,753 presented to a state procurement contract for use by the police department.
 Number 12, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Chevy Express 15-passenger van from Chevrolet of Federal in the amount of $26,295, pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Vaughan Richardson Community Center and to approve a budget adjustment. And number 13, a resolution to approve the purchase of eight Hustler Super Z mowers in
 from Williams Tractor Incorporated and the total amount of $78,000 plus any applicable sales, taxes, and freight charges pursuant to a source wealth lock and purchasing contract. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Pass, ma'am. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Thank you all. Next item of business is unfinished business, an ordinance to approve the annexation petition of Patricia Lynn's.
 So Barino is trustee of the Robert Eugene Byrd Evocable Trust and annexed 59 acres of land located at 3435 East Zion Road. Now, we have the later on in the agenda, we have the street side protection ordinance coming up.
 and i was in hopes that the council on my table this for a couple of weeks where we could look at the information and incorporate the uh streamside protection ordinance in into this you can't do you have any yes i'd like hopefully to see the streamside protection ordinance amendment passed tonight and neither one of the either the annexation nor the zoning
 be passed tonight because I'd rather have the streamside protection amendment in effect so that if we do if the city council decides to annex the land the streamside the stream that is inside this annex areas will automatically be protected by our streamside protection ordinance. Yeah so what's your all's thoughts? I move that we table the
 the ordinance for two weeks so that we can clearly have the streamside protection ordinance in force if it passes tonight. Second. Thank you. I would like to have a little bit of time to study the amount of information I'm getting in here as well. So any discussion on that? Yeah, I kind of want to talk a little bit about it. I'm glad we went ahead and tabled it even if it wasn't for this issue.
 we have got a massive volume of information and that's perfectly fine. Ultimately, I hope that we end up voting for this, but I do think there are some concerns and I hope we can work through those. Even before this came up, I think I asked kind of a water engineer about five months ago, I said, when are we going to get to swim in Lake Fayetteville?
 And so there's already been, I think, some conversations started about how do we do that? And ultimately, I don't think this one project is going to make or break that, but I really hope it starts the conversation
 about Lake Fayetteville in general and what we can do. I think there's some opportunities for cost sharing, even on this project, to really get some things done.
 The neighborhood to the north is producing a lot of runoff and hopefully by moving this into the city and using our design standards and maybe some cost sharing that we could provide houses and at the end of it have less runoff into Lake Fayetteville. So I'm glad we're tabling this. I really look forward to continue this conversation. Okay. Okay.
 Yes, sorry, Mayor. I also want to point out that, and I just remembered this, there was actually a report done by FTN.
 about the Lake Fayetteville spillway. And I think it would be helpful if the council would actually read that document. It came out in December of 2020. And it really basically says that in order to meet what they call the PMF, the probable maximum flood, which would be due to a tropical storm,
 that we probably need to increase the dam height and we need to increase the length of the spillway and we need to lower the lake level to increase storage capacity. So I think those are that report is really critical maybe for us to read in the next two weeks and I had forgotten that it was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee
 late last year so it has been out there for a little while and I think it's really important to this discussion here. Okay anything else? We have a motion to table for two weeks. All right, Kerridge please call the roll. Erksberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. And then there's item two in ordinance 13.
 to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled RPZD 2020-0002 for approximately 81.89 acres located at 3435 East Sign Road. I assume that we're going to table this one as well because we have an annexed land. So I would need a motion and a second. Move to table for two weeks. Second. Second.
 All right, we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Is there any discussion on that? All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Moving along to number three, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-009 for property located east of 662 West Taylor Street to vacate a portion of Street right-of-way. This was left on the first reading two weeks ago. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I move. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Kerr, it's Berth.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Johnson probably has this. Well, you've got to read that. Okay. I've been working with Johnson-Kurtz about this, and there's a very slight change to the conditions in this in Section 3.
 The current condition number two in that says an easement shall be dedicated over the vacated street right of way to ensure access for maintenance of existing utility infrastructure and we just want that change to our more standard general utility easement shall be dedicated in place of the right of way. So I would recommend I think Jonathan, I don't know if you have any comments on this, but I would recommend that we at the City Council amend the ordinance as I have stated.
 Jonathan, you have anything you want to add to that? I do, Mayor. Thank you. Jonathan Kurth with Development Services. I'm just going to show you my screen briefly with what the applicant has proposed. This is more specific to what Mr. Williams was referring to. The overall right-of-way currently, as you can see in this exhibit, is 40 foot in widths. I believe as the amendment had been discussed at agenda session, that entire width would be dedicated as a utility easement.
 What the applicant had worked out with the city's utility department was to dedicate the portion you see here in hatching, which I can make a little bit more clear here, perhaps. On the right-hand side, the purple is the right-of-way, and the area outlined in red is what would be dedicated as easement over the existing city sanitary sewer main. That's what the applicant is requesting, and the utility department has agreed to that in their sign-off. And that's all I have on there. Okay.
 Okay, what questions do we have for the staff or KIPP on this from the council? Anything? Okay. Mayor, I believe Blake Jorgensen is available as the applicant. Okay, would the applicant like to speak? He has 10 minutes to speak before the council. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor. How are y'all doing? Okay. Okay.
 Okay, good deal. You can hear me? Yeah. Yes, sir. Good deal. I appreciate everyone's work on this. It's been about, oh, I think six or seven months, but I think we're finally at the tail end of this. We've got all the appropriate notifications, and we've worked with utilities to identify the appropriate easements we need to dedicate. We're very comfortable with where this process sits right now. And if y'all have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them. Thank you very much.
 Okay, what questions do we have? I know that we need to do the amendment here before long, but what questions does the council have for Kit or staff on the amendment? And if somebody's good with it, then we could sure use a motion and a second here for the amendment. Mr. Mayor, can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay, I just want to make sure the amendment includes Mr. Kurtz's modification because Kit Williams' modification included dedicating all the right-of-way as easement, and we're requesting to modify that. So just to make sure we're clear procedurally, I do believe there may be a modification to that amendment. All right. Well, then let's go back to the amendment and have discussion on the amendment. What modifications are we –
 We talking about here? I think that Jonathan showed a different design than what I had seen. And so I guess that wasn't for the entire right of way, Jonathan. That is correct, Mr. Williams. And how wide is the one that you're recommending? The overall width, I believe the applicant could speak to it better than I, but I believe it's about 35 or excuse me, about 30 feet of the 40 foot right of way. Yes, sir. That's correct. Go ahead. Sorry.
 My understanding is that the electrical company actually wanted a wider, wider easement than even our right away. Have they changed their decision now and they no longer appear to have their 50 foot right away like they had originally said they wanted?
 And I'd like to speak to that real quick. So we have as built the power poles and the sewer mains. And what the the what SWEPCO is requiring is 25 feet each side of the power poles and the sewer main lies within that. And so basically we're dedicating
 around 24 to 25 feet because it's not exactly parallel, but typically the sewer main would require 10 feet each side. So we're dedicating five more feet than the city of Fayetteville needs, and we're adhering to what SWEPCO is requiring. So that does leave a bit of portion between where we're proposing that hashed area and a little bit more vacant area to the right-of-way.
 So are we dedicating an easement the width that SWPCO has requested? Yes, sir. That's correct. And it's above and beyond what the city of Fayetteville would need. Okay. That should be the amendment right there then. And we'll work on the fine details using probably the diagram that Jonathan showed you. But we still need an amendment to that effect. Okay. So...
 So, Council, the applicant and the staff are agreeable to Jonathan Kirsch's amendment that he has presented, and I assume that the city attorney is okay. Yes, and that'll be the way it'll be worded tomorrow when we fine-tune this ordinance, but we do need to have an amendment to reflect that you're in agreement with Jonathan Kirsch's diagram. Exactly. So, yes, we need an amendment agreeable with Jonathan Kirsch's amendment. Okay.
 I move that we amend the ordinance as described by Jonathan's diagram. Second. All right and we have a second. What discussion do we have on the amendment? All right we have a motion and a second. Karen would you please call the roll. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's go to the amended ordinance. Do you have any questions on the amended ordinance for this?
 or the staff or the applicant and um well before we do that i suppose we should let the applicant speak on the amended ordinance and staff if they wish to let's start with jonathan do you have anything you want to add to the amended ordinance jonathan
 Just briefly, I did want to confirm what the applicant said. I do have the SWPCO representatives approval document. It does say 50 feet easement centered on the power line, so that would mirror what the applicant is proposing. Okay. Black, do you have anything you want to add? No, sir. I sure appreciate everyone's efforts tonight. Okay. All right. Is there any questions for the applicant or the staff on this? I have a question.
 Jonathan, could you briefly describe the difference between an easement and the right-of-way? You know, we're having some changes here and I just want to make sure I clearly understand the implications of those changes.
 Certainly, they are often interchangeably used, but that's not an accurate way to do it. A public right-of-way is initially exactly what it sounds like. It's public property, allows public movement through the property. That's usually where our streets and sidewalks are. Inherent to public right-of-way is also the ability for franchise utilities to place utilities in that location. Okay.
 The biggest difference is an easement is typically private property over which an easement is laid that grants certain rights or privileges to a franchise or a neighboring property owner. In this case, it would be a general utility easement. So all the franchise utilities with which Fayetteville has an agreement would have access to the area. Thank you. That was very helpful. Okay. Any other questions or comments or anything from the council before we get public input?
 okay let's take some public input then everybody gets one one turn to speak you have a five minute duration in segments of two and three minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first
 Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to address us on this issue from the public? Kyle Smith. All right, go ahead, Kyle. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I would ask you to deny this request immediately.
 As Mr. Kurth explained, this is essentially public property. It's unbuilt, and so it can seem like we're holding on to it and not doing much with it, but its value is in the ability to plan for the future. This public right-of-way connects from the end of Gregg Street at Douglas and Taylor to the dead end of Cleveland and Westfield.
 While I'm not sure what might someday necessitate a connection there, a couple of things that you might have on your radar if you direct your attention to the map of the area. The university has a long-range plan for a parking deck and they've got preliminary designs that put it somewhere between five and seven stories on the northeast corner of Gregg and Douglas. Construction of that would
 have a major impact on traffic flow and might necessitate future connections. We don't currently have cross-section for streets that include transit, sorry, rail transit, and we don't really have a good long-term public plan yet for how we might incorporate passenger rail in the future, but as this is right adjacent to the existing heavy rail line, it
 would be an awesome candidate for improving that kind of service in the future. If we give up the right-of-way now, that's an asset that the city will no longer have at its disposal.
 It'd be great if we had those plans and could start gathering it up now, but in lieu of that, I would ask you all to think about the future as we grow and need to move towards other forms of mass transit and what this area might provide for that and worse, what giving it up now might cost us later. Thank you. Okay. One other public comment do we have?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion, questions, what does the council wish to do? Mayor, I have a comment to make. Sure. I can't support this for many of the reasons that were stated by the members of the Planning Commission who voted in the minority to oppose the vacation. I just think we haven't...
 imagined what we might need this right away for. And I'm especially skeptical of the public benefit to vacate this right away and then to sell the adjacent city-owned land or a portion of that to the east, which was what we heard about as being the master plan the last time we discussed this. It's not just the presence of the historic rail line,
 through this location, although I think that's pretty darn important. I think it's also the university's plans and its proximity to the creek. I can imagine eventually needing this right-of-way for some kind of transportation purpose, and at that time, if we still have control of the right-of-way, we'll be in the best position to construct that infrastructure in a way that's sensitive to
 in the way it needs to be because of its proximity to Skull Creek. So in any case, I'm especially skeptical of the public benefit for vacating this. I'd hope everyone, I urge you to consider that carefully. Thank you. Okay, thank you. One of the comments we have in the council on this.
 I have a question. I know that Mark was expressing concern last time and so I wondered if Mark's concerns have been addressed or reviewed. Mark, you want to talk about? Well, for what was mentioned earlier, I do think that I have a concern with this.
 You know, I would love to see the developer have the opportunity to do their project as they wish, really would. But, again, we have the property right now. And to relinquish that, I think, is premature at this time. And that's just my opinion. Okay. All right. Appreciate that. Sonia? All right.
 But they can come back or someone can come back and maybe, I don't know, but it's premature at this time. Okay. What other comments do we have in the council on this? I have a brief comment. Kind of like I expressed last time, I remain concerned.
 about its proximity to the creek. So I know technically it looks like it doesn't come under our stream side protection ordinance, but there is some kind of waterway and creek that will be very close by if we actually give up these public rights and it's developed. So that's kind of where I'm standing. Thank you. One of the comments we have in the council, that is in ward two, correct?
 I think so. OK. All right. Mayor, I move to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. OK. OK. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Terksburg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes.
 And ordinance approved DAC 20-009 for property located east of 662 West Taylor Street to vacate a portion of a street right of way. Okay. We're on third and final reading. Any final comments from the council? Okay. What? Somebody say something? I didn't know if I was going to get a chance to respond to those comments, Mr. Merritt. That's okay. Unless council member...
 request, ask questions for you if you have your allotted time. Does the council wish to hear anything more from the applicant? Sure, I would love to hear any response, Blake. Yeah, I'd go ahead and support that. Good deal. I sure appreciate that. I know we're dealing with weird times. Hang on, Blake. How much time do you want to give the applicant to speak? Sonia? Okay. Three minutes? Five minutes? Okay. All right, go ahead, Blake. You have five minutes.
 Yes, sir. Good deal. I'll take less than that. So I know y'all are seeing this, you know, for the baseball, I guess the second time, but
 I've been developing this area with different, you know, we've done a lot of development along this corridor. And if you really look at the right away going North and South, I guess the most prominent example is if you're at the railroad crossing of Dixon street, you see two buildings right up against the actual right away of the railroad company. And that's consistent as you go North and South. And so this portion of right away,
 I'm not sure which councilman brought up. I may have been the fact that there is strength side protection zone, but that lies to the North, which prohibits the ability to put a road in up to Cleveland.
 There's not a physical way to encroach into that floodway in the last eight years, which is the last eight years. Yes, it hasn't been built in the last eight years. It hasn't been built to service anyone or. And this is an opportunity for the city to relinquish unused property and hand it over to.
 development that will add to a tax base. And this reminds me of something very similar that Mr. Petty just brought up in the school rezoning is we have to maximize our tax bases for our corridors. And that's exactly what we deal with for the Fayetteville public schools along Rupert road. And this is what this would do. And so, um,
 The opportunity to develop unused PARP, this is the chance to do it. And it does not inhibit the opportunity for a light rail system going forward because you're dealing with the same amount of right-of-way to the north and south. And so I hope that answers some questions. I appreciate the insight from everyone. But I do want to try to point those facts out real quick. Thank you. If I may ask Mr. Jorgenson a question.
 The concern is not just as you've addressed, but also the proximity to the creek and the impact that it would have in that area as far as stormwater runoff. Do you have an insight on that? Yes, sir. Absolutely. So the unnamed tributary that runs into Skull Creek, it is...
 prone to flooding and unmanaged but as we if you were to try to install a roadway all the way to Cleveland you're dealing with a massive Roadway improvement project you're talking about a loan where to go through FEMA you're talking about no rise elevation certificates a bridge structure
 And, you know, you're talking about, I mean, I'm sure everyone's either biked or walked along that portion of the trail. I mean, that bank is, it's more than three to one. It's like a two to one ride.
 drop off that is it's let me put this way it wouldn't be acceptable in most developments but that's just the natural path of that course of that creek so the land that we're requesting to be vacated stops well before that we did not try to vacate it all the way to the north because nothing to the north could be do you couldn't do anything with that property to the north it's
 like a 10 foot drop off into the Creekway right there. So we had stopped it into a land that we feel is developable and underutilized. And it's obvious that it has been, you know, underutilized for the last eight years. And so we're trying to recapture that and offer housing to the city of Fayetteville. Thank you. Okay, any other questions or comments from the council?
 I have a question for Jonathan. So in terms of how the current right-of-way stands, is this going to kind of cut away in a direction that we really need in terms of what's before and after it? Like would it cut out a chunk that we potentially could utilize somehow?
 I mean I guess I'm just trying to figure out the impact overall for our potential uses in the future and also the stormwater. That's a good question. I think one of the challenges with this one is and to the applicant's point is developing it as a street would be difficult if not infeasible. If I may show my screen real quick this is just an exhibit from
 The last time I presented this, and just to give it some context, the yellow is the area being proposed for vacation. And that includes the right of way continues all the way connecting Cleveland Street to the north, Taylor Street to the south.
 and where the infeasibility of connecting it from staff's perspective is not necessarily what's being proposed to vacate, but what remains. That blue you see there is Skull Creek. The hatching is the floodway associated with Skull Creek, and the blue is the floodplain. To Councilmember Petty's point, that does not necessarily preclude using it in some way, shape, or form. A street is not the only thing found in rights-of-way.
 So that does bear some consideration. That is something staff looked at when we considered it as alternative forms of transportation. And ultimately, we felt that it would be redundant to keep it and use it as an alternative means of transportation, considering the Skull Creek trails on the east side of the railroad. So to be more concise, I would say it.
 Removing this would prevent that whole connection from ever being made, certainly. But the staff asserts that that connection is unlikely to be ever made. Thanks, Jonathan. And it's because the topography and the way the street kind of essentially is going to need to dead end there. Correct. Yeah. For a street construction, it's probably unfeasible. But again, that's if you look at it from through that lens for vehicular transportation.
 So development wise is there because of the topography is there any restriction for Mr. Jorgensen you know if he tries to do anything there because it is so close to that stream and because of the topography is he going to be limited?
 I've not seen any development details. That's hard for me to speculate at. It is accurate to say that it is beyond the streamside protection zone that extends 50 feet from the banks of a stream. And even in the steepest cases, that's 70 feet. The portion, the little drainage way in this right away is not actually a protected stream. Skull Creek is the nearest one.
 There are clearly there is clearly drainage going through there as would probably be anticipated with how much the railroad has been built up. But it may or may not be subject to to a higher scrutiny or standards there if it's developed properly.
 Other than with a single or two family under that, I guess a lot of people call it a loophole in our ordinances. If it's developed with something more intense than that, it would be subject to our drainage criteria. But otherwise, it could potentially be developed without having to meet those standards. Thank you. Anything else before we vote? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Herzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. No.
 Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Fudge? No. Turk? No. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number four. An ordinance to amend 161.22 community services and 161.24 urban thoroughfare by changing certain permitted uses to conditional uses. Now the last meeting
 This is on the second reading, but it was tabled for Kit to develop a couple of two or three more ordinances out of this. Yes, the city council, Mayor, as you remember, asked that the current ordinance that's right here before you and that we discussed before, it should be changed to three different ordinances. So there are three different questions. It's very easy to divide them up. I sent a memo out to the council with...
 These ordinances, including the one that would be, needs to amend from this one to the one I sent out, and that would cover the community services for conditional uses for use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-thru restaurants. That's the only issue that that particular ordinance would cover. And then the two items on new business first and second would be the other two parts of this ordinance. So,
 I would recommend the first thing the city council will do is simply amend to the ordinance that I have provided them. I think it's also probably part of the additional information within this agenda item. And I can read it if you want me to, to make sure everybody understands what it is. And that's so that would be my recommendation. Right. So I know this was sent out to the council, but.
 KITT could read it and basically what this amendment does
 is takes the two items of CS and urban thoroughfare, moves it to new businesses one and two, and leaves in the gas stations and the drive-through businesses. That's correct. So that part of the community services that would be proposed to change gas stations to a conditional use instead of permitted use would be the one that would be amended to here if the city council wants to make a motion.
 KEN HOWARD JR.: Jim, why don't you go ahead and just, if nothing else, for the public and read the amendment and then take a question. JIM POPHAMSEN- I'll do that. An amendment, no, ma'am, sorry. An ordinance to amend section 166.22 community services to move use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from permitted uses to conditional uses.
 Whereas the City Council adopted City Plan 2040 with objectives to promote context-sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street designs that treat walkability and cycling as core functions. And whereas City Plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas of the City intended to develop into pedestrian-friendly mixed-use nodes served by the current or future transit service,
 And whereas the community services zoning district is often applied to areas where mixed use development is desirable because its stated purpose is to encourage mixture of residential and commercial uses in a traditional urban form. And whereas convenience stores with gas pumps and fast food restaurants are some of the most intense commercial activities allowed in community services,
 and can lack compatibility because of their high traffic, substantial lighting, and 24-hour operation in certain locations near residential houses, duplexes, and other housing,
 And whereas recent proposals to rezone to community services have drawn public concern and criticism about the safety of traffic associated with use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants in areas with high pedestrian traffic or the compatibility of these uses with nearby residential areas.
 and whereas use unit 18 should be moved from a permitted use to a conditional use to allow neighbor comments to ensure use unit 18's allowed uses are appropriate in the location requested and to allow the planning commission to place reasonable conditions upon the applicant such as the placement of the building gas pumps or drive-through windows requiring more screening limiting the number of gas pumps or reducing the hours of operation
 And whereas the conditional use permit process allows the Planning Commission to hear from the public and to apply a higher level of discretion to ensure development pursuant to use unit 18 is safe, compatible, and appropriate. Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 at the city council of city of fable arcs are hereby manned section 161.22 community services by removing use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from subsection b1 permitted uses and adding use unit 18 to subsection b2 conditional uses
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby recognizes the vested rights of property owners who have purchased property for development based upon existing zoning standards and hereby exempts all unexpired large-scale development, small-site improvement plans, large-site improvement plans, preliminary plats, final plats, concurrent plats, and building permits approved within six months of the development.
 following the enactment of this ordinance. This exemption shall include any approved renewals or extension pursuant to Section 166.20 of the Unified Development Code and all subsequent phases of PLAAF subject to this exemption. Okay, that is the amendment. And we'll leave a motion and a second. Or what discussion do we have of the amendment? The first thing, Paul, would be a motion, a second, and a discussion. Then we can discuss it.
 Move to be amended as read. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to amend. Now what discussion do we have on the amendment? If there's no discussion from the council, I guess, Carol, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended ordinance. Now from what I'm reading here, it was left on the second reading, so I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance amends section 166.22 community services to move use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from permitted uses to conditional uses. Okay, Jonathan, you got anything you want to add on this? I do not, Mayor, but I am available for questions.
 Okay, so I guess we'll open it up for discussion with the council. You have any comments, questions? What's your pleasure here? Well, let's take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes in segments of two and three minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residence first.
 press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us on this from the public pal smith okay go ahead
 thank you mayor and council and i will start with my apologies for handing you a a muddied water piece of uh agenda on my way out the door i appreciate you splitting it up and and being able to address the separate concerns a little more clearly as to this one that now is only impacting the uh the gas stations and drive-through restaurants
 I would urge you to listen to the clear voice of the neighbors over the past few years and to adopt this amendment. Rules change on a regular basis. That's why you all exist and that's why you have procedures for amending the code. I think this is a reasonable response to public requests for changes to rules that they either don't feel are working or aren't confident in protecting their neighborhoods. Thank you.
 What other public comment do we have? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the third and final reading. I watch discussions, final comments from the council. Everybody ready to vote? Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move to new business now on the first item of new business. Mayor, may I interrupt and ask a question real quick? It pertains to this last issue that we voted upon. Is it possible to move to put an emergency clause in this –
 bill that we just passed in order to reduce the six-month time because essentially it would be seven months because we have to wait 30 days before this goes into effect. And so we're actually giving developers seven months before this takes effect. So I don't know procedurally if that's okay to make an emergency, ask for an emergency clause or not. Well, it's already been passed.
 I think and uh oh yeah it's been passed but I don't know the uh you know instead of that the easier thing to do if you want to be take effect six months from now you would simply say that uh that you could lower that let's see what I don't know how we have this written you're talking about 30 days though aren't you
 I am. So if I understand things correctly, and maybe I have them wrong. Yeah, you do. If you look at the wording for the six months, it's following the enactment of the ordinance, not the effective date of the ordinance. Okay. Thank you, Kit, for clarifying that. It would be the actual enactment. Okay. I withdraw my concern. Thank you very much. Okay. So everything's everything, right, Teresa? It is. Thank you very much. It's great. Okay. You're welcome.
 I don't mind you all stopping me all right now let's go on to new business okay so an ordinance to amend 161.22 community services to move use unit and single family dwellings and use unit 9 two family dwellings from permitted uses to conditional uses kit
 Whereas the City Council adopted City Plan 2040 with objectives to promote context-sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street designs that treat walkability and cycling as core functions.
 And whereas City Plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas of cities intended to develop into best-friendly mixed-use nodes served by current and future transit service. And whereas the community service zoning district is often applied to areas where mixed-use development is desirable because its stated purpose is to encourage a mixture of residential and commercial uses in a traditional town urban form.
 And whereas recent examples of development in community services districts utilizing only use unit eight single family dwellings in patterns indistinguishable from neighboring residential zones have failed to produce the intended variety of housing types or reserve space for future commercial development to serve a growing residential area.
 and whereas the conditional use permit process allows the planning commission to hear from neighbors and public to ensure development of these zoning districts will promote the mixed-use objectives of community service and the city's long-range 2040 plan as well as better serve the neighborhood's needs for nearby and compatible commercial services now therefore it be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one
 at the city council the city of fable archer hereby amend section 161.22 community services by removing use unit 8 single family dwellings and use unit 9 two family dwellings from subsection b1 permitted uses and adding them to subsection b2 conditional uses section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby recognizes the vested rights of property owners who have purchased property for development based upon existing zoning standards
 and hereby exempt all unexpired large-scale developments, small site improvement plans, large site improvement plans, preliminary plans, final plans, concurrent plans, and building permits approved within six months following the enactment of this ordinance. This exemption shall include any approved renewals or extensions provided by Section 166.20 of the Unified Development Code and all subsequent phases of plans subject to this exemption.
 Okay. So Jonathan, do you have anything on this or kid or? I know this was just the second one that I did and I had put in a new business so we could follow proper parliamentary procedure. Okay. And so it's to the city council at this point for their work. Okay. Jonathan, you want to add anything or? No mayor similar to the last item. I'm happy to be available for questions. Okay. Okay. Let's, let's get started.
 What's the questions or comments? I have a question for you. So just so I understand, I know we've asked you this before, but I want to ask you with the whole group here. So what we're talking about is removing a small, smaller part of, you know,
 land use for single family out of community service, which is community services, which is intended for more densely developed development, I guess is what I'm saying. Is that is that kind of the the vibe of the ordinance kind of the direction so that we can separate and not necessarily use community services type zoning when in allow for like this big spread out type development?
 i believe former council member smith may be able to speak better to his intent of the ordinance uh as far as my understanding of it and read of it is it's not entirely removing the allowance for those uses it it's shifting it from a permitted use to a conditional use which does not mean that it can't be done it's subject to a higher level of scrutiny it means a conditional use permit would have to be brought before our planning commission
 And my understanding of the idea behind that is some of our more higher intensity mixed use zoning districts are intended for higher intensity uses. And so while a single family home can be a very ubiquitous building block of a neighborhood, it may have less of a role to play in some locations in the city where we'd rather see attached residential dwellings or vertical mixed use dwellings and so forth.
 perhaps most importantly, access to services. And a lot of places in the city we've been seeing properties zone CS, either by the city itself, for example, on Ruple Road or at the request of applicants. And then ultimately it's developed with low or medium to low density single family, which is not the purpose or the written purpose of the CS zoning district.
 Yeah, that's kind of exactly what I had understood quite a while back when I was asking about this. So in general in cities, is that a normal thing? I mean, it seems like it's helpful for the people that live in that area to kind of have a better narrow scope of what potentially can go next door to them. But is that what cities do? Do they kind of more narrow or do they generally...
 kind of include everything in below so you can basically do everything below or is it more narrow? It's, if you want to look at it on a historical basis and the nation as a whole, a lot of cities look at zoning in a hierarchical manner. It's kind of a pyramid. You imagine a single family home at the top of it and as a result it's given the arguably highest priority, if you will, and it's allowed in every other zoning designation under it with the notion being that it's the lowest, the
 potential for nuisance or intense development or impacts. A lot of cities have begun to realize, including Fayetteville, that the impacts of making single-family homes king is that it's been prioritized to the detriment of cities spreading outward on and on and on. And so as some cities have developed mixed-use zoning districts, they've incorporated
 Certain tools, this one that you're considering right now is not a common one, but it's not uncommon either, where it allows the city to have a higher degree of scrutiny when the development comes through, where if someone wants to develop single family homes, the planning commission gets to look at it and see if those single family homes are a part of a larger whole in a neighborhood that may be more complete and more connected with residents.
 closer proximity or mixed in with services and attached residential dwellings. So it's not to say single family homes are bad inherently. It's just to say that in certain parts of our city we have emphasized that it's meant to be a piece of the puzzle to make a better neighborhood, not the puzzle. Great. Thank you, Jonathan. What other questions or comments do we have? I have a question for Jonathan. I'm trying to get this
 pull back up here just a second. So when we're talking about the single-family homes, what constitutes a single-family home? Are we only talking about RSF4 or do we have other categories of single-family homes that could be fitted in with under that umbrella?
 So the way our zoning code is broken out is there's each zoning district, which you know them by their esoteric names, RSF4, NC, whatever it may be. And each one of those zoning districts has use units in it.
 And what the council, of course, is looking at tonight is use unit eight and nine, which is single family and two family. So regardless of zoning district, use unit eight is a detached single family home under use unit eight. So that just means a standalone structure. So that's what's being proposed along with use unit nine, which is duplexes to be moved to a conditional use. So it's not necessarily tied to a specific zoning.
 district, the idea of a single-family home. Single-family homes are allowed in multiple zoning districts, if that makes sense. So some of the things that we do have in this part of town, we have row houses that are single-family and detached. Would that be a conditional use also with this? A lot of that depends on how they're developed. Our code talks about
 single family dwellings as, as whether it's on a single lot or, or I guess could be sold fee simple, if you will, whether a house is on its own piece of property or whether it's attached on, on,
 one piece of property or on separate either all attached to one piece of property or separated on multiple pieces of property use unit eight single family dwellings means a true detached single family home on a single lot so if you took row homes moving up the street on ruple for example to ruple row i think there's duplexes and i think some quadplexes
 If each one of those were on a property, whether it was divided up or not, that would not be considered a single family home under use unit A in our code. So you could still develop townhomes not as a conditional use, if that makes sense. Okay. Okay. So would it also include things like, we have lots of areas in town that have
 that have much higher density that are single family. They're very small lots. Does it also include like a cluster development? That is a fee simple transfer, isn't it? That's a good question. That's a completely distinct use unit in our code. Cluster housing is. So that would currently remain as a permanent use. Correct. Yep, good question though.
 But we do have places in Fayetteville where we have freestanding single homes that are on very small lots. That's correct. And again, those are not prohibited under this change. It would just be a conditional use. Just with a conditional use permit. Okay. Jonathan, there is always the mention of this was the intention of whatever. This was the intention. Back when the form-based...
 zoning came about, specifically, we discussed C2 allowing a broad range of building by right. And somehow, people keep saying it's a failure because it's all single-family homes. I guess it's how you consider a failure. A lot of that is driven by the market. But also, the single-family home is a failure. It's a failure. It's a failure. It's a failure. It's a failure. It's a failure.
 is an option. And we wanted to have all of these options available. A conditional use is not easy and it can be very subjective. And this subjectivity sometimes can be perceived, especially by a builder or a developer or a person that wants their home as being unfair. So I'm trying to, I'm trying to get back to what I knew when we were doing form-based development
 code, and that was to try to not make people go and get conditional uses. So I think we need to let it, in my opinion, it should be played out and not thrown away. It's almost advocating the opposite of what you're saying that it's advocating now, but
 and giving an opportunity for multi-use. I think that that's good but the multi-use still has the opportunity now. I don't see why we're excluding duplexes and single homes. We have approved a lot of high density development in the south side of town that are single homes and it shows the wonderful usage of the property that's available and it makes it more affordable
 whatever your definition of affordable is, to get into these homes. So I just, I'm wondering why we're hearing from everyone that the intent was this but it was a failure. Do you have a, do you have some easy way to explain that? Except yeah, there's a lot of single-family homes out there, but if the right type of other home was out there, then they would be popular too. And we do have a lot of row homes. Look on Salem,
 They're wonderful. They're by the Boys Club, and they are single-family homes on small lots, and they're high-density. So I just don't understand adding this extra step for a builder, developer, or a person that wants to buy a single-family home.
 This extra step of time and money when I don't think that was the reason that we went to form-based code. And I was around for that. So I do recall a lot of the argumentation to support that because Fayetteville has a reputation of being hard to build in. And this was going to give us the opportunity to have a mixed-use area, a little commercial, a little single family. If it's a failure, I don't see...
 basically we're still going to have the single family homes and the town homes, but it's going to take so much more time and money to get it through the conditional use and a lot of despair and a lot of divisive attitudes. And I've got to come to reckoning with that. Well, anyway, when we developed the, the,
 the code wasn't it to make it easier to to develop that's really what we were trying to do right i i was not here when that came through any intent is just what i've inferred from what's written in the cs zoning district's purpose i don't know that it was necessarily meant to make it easier to develop period as much as easier to develop mixed use neighborhoods that's from
 Which I think is where the dilemma has come. And again, I'm inferring what I understand about the intent of former council member Smith's proposal is that whether you,
 the argument can be made that CS has failed, which I'm not trying to do here, is that what we have gotten is single-use developments of single-family homes where the city could have benefited from a more complete neighborhood with a mix of housing types and particularly the ability of having housing near the services and retail and restaurants that can make a more walkable community.
 So I'm not asserting that CS is a failure. I think that this does add another step. I don't want the council to be unaware of that. A conditional use permit does potentially add time. It does add some unpredictability to a development process. To get a conditional use permit, you have to provide a higher level of detail up front than a developer may want to if they can develop something by right. But if the goal is to,
 to create truly complete neighborhoods, this would give the Planning Commission more authority and more ability to drive that.
 You know, I was on planning commission when we started, when we really started adopting the form based zoning. And I know, you know, I, I just know I remember the meetings where we talked about zoning on Rupert Road and zoning at CS and all the things that we were going to get with that zoning. Now,
 It hadn't worked. And I'm probably somebody that said a couple of times in meetings, this did not work the way we intended it to. Because I'm thinking about what I voted on several years ago at Planning Commission and
 you know, I thought my vote for CS in certain areas was going to get a more diversified neighborhood, a more mixed use development, you know, and then maybe gradually as you got away from the major street, you know, getting into single family homes. However, I also understand that if we're in an area where people are able to buy single family homes and that's what they're looking for,
 then I don't really, you know, I'm also kind of torn with the idea that we want to make it a little bit harder for people to get into a single family home because we have so many different types of single family homes now. It's not just a house on a quarter acre. And I also feel that in certain parts, you know, like if you did have mixed use homes.
 A good transition for that would be duplexes after it. I think you could have a fairly dense duplex neighborhood and then maybe get off into row houses or something like that. It's not uncommon for,
 you know a development to start out denser and then as you work your way into the development the lots get a little bit bigger or something like that so i you know so i may have said that this this did not work the way that we intended it to and i'm thinking back on what i voted on on planning commission and what i was expecting to get but those houses on rupel are selling they're not you know it's it's not that they're not selling they're sitting there and we need to
 I just don't know what, you know, I'm not really sold on taking these two out and making them conditional use permits now. Thanks. Yeah, I think one of the big goals was to allow people to live close to where they work. And, you know, I've been saying almost five, six, seven years ago that we need more houses in East Fayetteville and we need more jobs in West Fayetteville. And I think that was...
 kind of the attempt is to start getting more jobs over there. The houses are affordable over there because of the commute that you have to make to get to any job. So they're artificially lowered because there's just no jobs over there and you have to deal with driving across I-49.
 If this had been built with some more commercial and some more jobs, I think those houses actually would sell for more. And I think they would be able to be in there more dense. So, yeah, it is kind of an object failure because now we've got more houses built.
 in West Fayetteville that need to come across 49. And we're going to see how bad that is when they close Weddington to start rebuilding that. It's going to be, it's not going to be good. And so the idea of form-based is that it is possible that your job could be in walking distance.
 And nobody over there around Ruple, unless they work at the school, is within walking distance of a job. They all have to drive. And a lot of them have to drive over I-49. And there's more and more and more subdivisions being built as you go west outside of Fayetteville. And the traffic's only going to get worse. I think this ordinance makes sense. The only issue is
 This is mostly directed at one developer, and we need to know kind of what that developer may do if we actually push this as far as litigation against the city. And I will support this if we don't think we're going to get sued. You know, one of the things when we talk about our largest employer, if we think about jobs in terms of you go to the specific place to work,
 Our largest employer is the university. You're not going to have a job over on Rupert Road, probably with the university that you walk to. But I do think that our traffic is going to continue to get worse. But if you work for Tyson, you work for Walmart, you're not going to have probably your job right there within walking distance. But because of our pandemic...
 The job market and how we work has changed substantially. And I don't see that going back to completely the way that it was before. A lot of people now, a lot of companies have realized that they don't have to have, you know, they don't have to have an office building. They can have people working remotely and get by with a lot less commercial space than they used to. I mean, we're having a remote meeting right now.
 We're not in, you know, I didn't drive to city hall. I'm sitting here with my house shoes on. So I think that's, I think that's something that, you know, you know, I kind of am taking that into consideration too, that maybe there's going to be more people working from home and you can do that in East Fayetteville, West Fayetteville. And, you know, I don't know. So, but I know it's going to be a mess when we, when we start working on, when they start working on Weddington. I'd like to add some thoughts to, you know,
 I think I'm leaning towards support of this, and I probably have been since the beginning, but I haven't been completely sold on it, and I suppose I'm still not, and so I want to share where my thinking is now. I've definitely been one of the ones that have called these codes a failure, but I want to be specific that that's with respect to the intent of the codes that we memorialized in the code itself. They're not producing mixed-use districts.
 Uh, and, and I think that's just an observation. I don't think that counts as an opinion yet. I've got some, I've got some opinions I want to share, but I think that's just a fact. Um, I, I think if we go back to the, um, you know, I want to try to do this in good faith and talk about the spirit of the law, not necessarily just the letter of the law. Um, and, and this is maybe where I have some opinions or, or, or some, some open-ended thoughts. Um,
 In my opinion, the intent of the code is to produce more options for consumers, for citizens, not to produce more options for builders and developers. And I think that's a real subtle difference because we can't provide housing or services for consumers, for our citizens, without partnering in some way to
 through code or infrastructure or other means. We can't provide those things without partnering with builders and developers. But it's not for them. It's for the end users, for our citizens. And we should have a system where the partnership works out well. And I think
 I think for me, this is the fulcrum that my decision-making is kind of resting on. So I want to explore it a little bit. Right now, even with the proposed changes, if they get voted in, these codes aren't really excluding any housing options. All the possibilities are still preserved. But in what we see built today, we are excluding options for consumers. If you want to live somewhere right now,
 We have, relatively speaking, an oversupply of single-family housing compared to other housing types. Now, that's an overall housing market that's really undersupplied. So you'd never know it because everybody who can't afford one is moving into a house. But what we see when we interview them or when we – I know a lot of people are brokers here. When you talk to prospective clients, I'm sure you have a lot of people that are settling homes.
 for a house that isn't quite right, or a location that isn't quite right, or both. And what we see whenever we do consumer preference surveys, when I say we, I mean when the National Association of Realtors does consumer preference surveys, and this has been true for the last six years, or when Arthur Nelson at the Arizona State University does his National Demographic Studies against housing supply,
 or when RCL Co does trade industry data for developers to choose what kind of projects to build in different metros. They all come to the same conclusion.
 which is that there is a significant segment of the population, somewhere around 20%, who wants either a smaller home than what they can get or an apartment that they can't find in the right spot. And so they're settling for a larger house or a house that's a little farther away from what they want. And that's because that's what the market has provided. You need a place to live. If you can't get the one you want, you're just going to get what's out there.
 you don't really have a choice. And our codes, I think what I'm seeing is that our codes have failed to provide a variety of options for people. They failed to match the optionality that our citizens want. And that's probably mostly because builders do what they know how to do and what they have experience doing. Even when we change what's allowed, we aren't really changing things
 The development capacity in our community. They know how to get certain kind of applications and how to build a certain kind of house, and it takes a lot of something else besides just changing what's allowed it takes something more than that to get them to experiment in their own portfolios, and I think that's just what we've seen.
 is they've continued to build what they know. And so, you know, there's a question that maybe we've teased that a little bit, but we haven't asked directly. And I want to ask it and maybe try to answer it. And we ask, well, what will builders do if we pass this? What will the builders who are already active and who are committed to continuing to build, whether or not we pass this, what will they do if we do pass it?
 And when I imagine the answer to that question, what I see is that builders are going to come in with plat submissions to the planning commission, and they're going to be partnered with developers that build other kinds of housing and other kinds of real estate products.
 And maybe a builder who owns a big piece of land that zones community services will still want to do predominantly single family housing, but they'll partner with somebody else for the corner properties or for the properties that are out against the corridor. They'll partner with an apartment builder or a commercial builder to try and fill those other needs.
 They don't have to do it all on their own. And this is how I think development of large parcels proceeds in most other communities whenever they get the mixed use thing right. So if you find yourself thinking that maybe this is binary, that this is all or nothing, and if we pass this, we're just not going to get single family anymore. I don't think that's that doesn't feel true to me.
 it feels more likely that we'll continue to see more or less the same volume of activity, but we'll see some more creative proposals and creative partnerships come into the planning commission as they're on their way to the approval that they're going to get in the end. So I'm still leaning. Yes. And those are kind of where my thoughts are. That's what they're that's what they're centered on.
 But I'm still trying to listen very closely to what everyone else's experiences and predictions are. I think my only concern would be if we make it more difficult, builders will not want to build in Fayetteville. That's the only thing that I'm thinking right now. I'd like to respond to that or just to try to because I don't know if there is really a good answer. But I think we've been hearing that for 20 years and they still keep coming.
 Even though we keep changing the rules. And like back in 2006 or 2007, we didn't have any of these new rules. And it was basically like building anywhere else. And we heard the same thing, but they still keep coming. So I don't know. That's what I think about whenever I hear people in the community say that. I get probably an email every other day that would love that.
 Now, I think they'll keep building no matter what we put in the way. It's a great community and it's gonna sell because more people wanna move here than we have housing. So I think builders will stick around. Okay, any other thoughts? And we're gonna open it up for public comment here. Okay, let's take it to the public.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration in segments of two and three minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no road rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you so who would like to address us from the council first will dockery go ahead
 Hello, Will Dockery for, can you hear me? Yes. 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. I live in Ruppel Row. Let's have an analogy here. Say that I want to have some donuts for my company. And so I send off, I call into one of those donut companies that we have here in Fayetteville that makes all sorts of crazy, awesome assortment kinds of donuts. And I say,
 And I say, I want an assortment of two dozen donuts. And they say, you got it. And then when I go to pick it up, all that is there are giant glazed donuts. And while I love giant glazed donuts, you know, there are people in my company who also want to have that mixture. They want that jelly filled. They want that cream. They want that cookie monster donut. And yet here we are and we go to our, our.
 Our urban development code, and it very clearly states in the community services that community services is supposed to be a mixed commercial zone that allows housing. And yet everything so far that has been built in community services since we make community services is on one fifth of an acre or bigger for a single family home.
 So we keep arguing like, well, you know, this is a slippery slope, but so far every house that has been built since we had community services is one fifth of an acre bigger. The houses that we have that are on college that are community services were built back before 1950, those stone houses and stuff. So,
 We also have some concerns that city council is worried that these denser areas in South Fayetteville or Ruppel Row won't happen if we take this away in community services. But, you know, every example that was given, those are PZDs or downtown general, which are even more dense areas than community services. Right.
 And we also worry like, well, then there'll be more cars or whatever. But, you know, I'm the POA president of Ruppel Row and 70% of my neighborhood are university employees or students. And we have a large contingent of bus commuters. In fact, like we have two bus stops in my neighborhood alone just for how many people ride the bus from my neighborhood. Denser mixed use districts allow for more dense modes of transportation and that takes cars off the road.
 Also, if you actually have a mixed use, then there are some places that people can work besides here, besides just driving. And like I said, so far, every house that's been built has been fifth or an acre bigger. And when we keep doing this, like, I just don't understand why we keep doing the same things that we keep knowing don't work. Yeah.
 The other thing I'd like to point out is that when we first started talking about this issue, there were some developers who came on here and they said they were fine with this.
 So, in fact, one of them is even one of the developers who has community services, and they are totally fine with having this being that. So we keep hemming and hawing and saying, man, it'd be nice if there's more places for people to live. We know we're going to have 20,000 more people in Fayetteville in the next 30 years, but we just don't know where to put them. And, of course, we're not going to have any place to put them if we keep building the same way that we keep building. Yeah.
 And that's all I have to say about that. I think you should seriously consider this. It's not taking the option away. It's just when you plan for it to be mixed use and all we get is one kind of thing,
 then maybe it's broken. Maybe we should go back to the drawing board and say, hey, like we asked for a mixture of donuts. Where are all the other kinds of donuts? Like the glazed donut is delicious, but if it's a giant glazed donut that it takes three people to eat every time, then maybe we want some smaller donuts that are not as, that are different. Maybe we want different flavors. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Kyle Smith. Okay, go ahead, Kyle.
 thank you mayor and council and i hope this is the last time you have to hear from me tonight i'm glad that we're getting the opportunity to talk about the housing issues without clouding them with the noise of the gas station issue because i think this is maybe the more important of the two
 Councilmember Gutierrez asked some questions about the sort of the historic context of this and I think Mr. Kurtz did a fantastic job of laying it out and expressing the intent I had when I brought this forward originally, but it wouldn't be me if I didn't also give you some numbers for the context here.
 Historically, we have zoned things exclusively, and we still have those zones. The C1 and C2 commercial zones completely omit housing, single-family housing from their zones. They make up about 7% of the land area of Fayetteville.
 The CS zone, which is intended for mixed use, like we've heard, makes up 3% of the land mass. That's the part that we're talking about here is 3% of the city. Okay.
 The development in South Fayetteville, the downtown generals, the main street centers, those would not be affected. They can continue as they have been. Many of those have been requests to change from neighborhood conservation to RIU. That would continue as it always has. This would not impact that.
 By comparison, 68% of our city's land mass is exclusively single-family zoning. That means that is the only thing that can build there on more than two-thirds of our city's land. So I think this is a very targeted approach to fix certain areas of town.
 The phrase variety of housing choices appears eight times in the 2040 master plan that was unanimously approved by council. I think that is a recognition that single family is not only appropriate but it is also necessary to achieve variety. I think that is a recognition
 I don't want to remove single family entirely and that's why it is part of the, or just being moved to CUP. That process allows single family houses to be part of a healthy and complete neighborhood while allowing the Planning Commission to guard your policy of encouraging diversity. If that indeed remains the public policy that the Council is pursuing.
 To Councilmember Petty's point, this is not perfect. And I think I described it that way when I first presented it. It pains me to no end to create any hurdle for housing.
 But the reality is that single-family housing is incentivized in so many ways at so many levels, whether it's financing or federal tax policy or even our zoning here, as I've mentioned. I look at this as leveling the playing field for other types of housing, denser housing in zones that we have specifically designated for denser development areas.
 This is kind of a stopgap measure. It is not perfect. I encourage you to continue after this, strengthening the code to get the variety of housing all across our city that we need to grow into the next century. In the meantime, I hope you will adopt this as a starting point. Hopefully it will point us in the right direction. And I will reserve whatever time I have left to take any questions since I've prepared this ordinance originally, if you have any. Okay.
 Is there any question for Mr. Smith on this? Kyle Smith on this? There's about a minute left of his time. Well, I guess not. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate everybody's work on this. All right. Thank you, Kyle. All right. Who else wants to address this? Okay. All right. So we're back to the council. I don't know. What do you all want to do? I want to leave it on this reading for the time being. Okay. I also have a request. Yes.
 If someone on the west side of town bought their home because they didn't find a rental unit or a unit in a high rise or whatever, I want to hear from them. Because I don't know any of those people that were forced to buy a single family home because they didn't find any rent.
 multi-unit, whatever, that fit their needs. I'm just curious about that. I'd like to jump in to make sure that I was exceedingly clear. There are people who, what I said was there are people who are settling for a home in a location that they don't want or for a home that has characteristics that they don't prefer.
 And there are people who are looking for a place downtown and can't find one and are choosing to live in other arrangements. And no one has to take my word for it. You can go, I cited my sources, you can go to the National Association of Realtors and look at these consumer preference surveys. And you can look at the demographic projections for our metro area in Arthur Nelson's research at Arizona State University, which has been corroborated by
 other trade groups for years. In any case, it's out there. Eddie, I want you to know I wasn't putting you down. I wasn't putting you down. I was thinking if there's someone there, I want to talk to him because you do, you always support your statistics and I appreciate it. I just needed an example. I do really appreciate what you bring and I would never put you down that way.
 One other point. Do we need to make it seem that there's a notion to hold it on this particular reading? Is anyone in disagreement with that? I'd vote to advance it if that's the consensus. Matt, I didn't catch what you said. I'm sorry. What'd you say? You were taking a straw poll. I was indicating I'd vote to advance it myself. Oh, okay.
 I think we had enough conversation about the item we just approved in old business, but this one we really didn't talk about at all, even though we broke it apart. So I do want to, I actually want to hold it. Okay. Is anybody in disagreement with holding it? Well, then we'll just hold it right here. All right, let's move along to number two.
 An ordinance to amend 161.24, urban thoroughfare to move use unit eight, single family dwellings and use unit nine, two family dwellings from permitted uses to conditional uses. Kip. Whereas the city council adopted city plan 2040 with objectives to promote context sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street designs that treat walkability and cycling as core functions.
 And where city plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas of the city intended to develop into pedestrian friendly, mixed use nodes served by current or future transit service. And whereas the urban thoroughfare zoning district has often been approved by the city council for areas where high density mixed use development has been determined by the city council to be desirable to encourage a mixture of residential uses,
 including high density apartment style residential developments and fairly intense commercial uses built in a traditional urban form. And whereas urban thoroughfare districts are designed for much greater density than use unit eight single family dwellings and use unit nine two family dwellings,
 provide so too many of these low density developments could defeat the zoning purpose of urban thoroughfare for high density commercial and multifamily uses and fail to reserve a sufficient space for future commercial development.
 and whereas use unit eight and nine should be only conditional uses in urban thoroughfare and not permitted uses because the conditional use permit process allows the planning commission to consider the purposes of city plan 2040 and to hear from neighbors and others about whether the proposal fits the neighborhood's needs and wants or whether a more dense residential or commercial development would be advisable
 Now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend section 161.24 urban thoroughfare by removing use unit 8 single family dwellings and use unit 9 two family dwellings from subsection B1 permitted uses and adding them to subsection B2 conditional uses.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas hereby recognizes the vested rights of property owners who have purchased property for development based upon existing zoning standards and hereby exempts all expired large-scale developments, small-scale, small-site improvement plans, large-site improvement plans, and large-site improvement plans.
 preliminary plants final plants concurrent plants and building permits approved within six months following the enactment of this ordinance this exemption shall include any approved renewals or extensions pertaining to section 166.20 of the unified development code and all subsequent phases of plants subject to this exemption okay i assume jonathan you will be available for questions unless you have something you would like to add
 i am and i did not bear thank you okay uh all right let's take this one to the city council what discussion do we have on this one council
 I have a question for Jonathan. Sure. Jonathan, do you have an approximate estimate of how many single family dwellings or duplexes are in urban thoroughfare zones? From the previous one, I knew there were many in community services area, but I just have no idea in the urban thoroughfare zoning district type.
 that's a good question and I do not I think given its application and some of our more or busier corridors that they do not lend themselves to property values to develop with single-family homes allow me to think on that while the council continues to talk about it but I cannot think of a single example off the top of my head that has been developed with single-family dwellings today okay that's interesting
 What other discussion do we have in the council? I have a follow up to that answer you just gave Jonathan. What percentage of the city is zoned urban thoroughfare and for how long in the past? Similarly, I do not have the answer at my fingertips. If you'll humor me, I can try and track that down while the council continues to speak. Sorry for not having that available. Well, I have an insight here to a degree because it sounds to me like this is working
 the way it is, so I don't know why we're worried about these single family homes. And if there were a few single family homes there, I don't see how that would be a problem. Sorry. You know, to speak to Councilmember Petty's point, if you do look at a map of the city and how it's zoned, it is overwhelmingly zoned
 very heavy toward RSF4, and especially in your older 1960s, 70s, 80s, and 90s neighborhoods. So I do know that there's a lot of that RSF4 zoning, especially in my ward. So I don't know the number, the percentage though. It's a lot. That's the percentage. It's a lot. Okay. What other discussion do we have?
 Okay. Well, let's get a little public comment here then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. We're open in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise...
 raise hand and zoom to be recognized. So we can hear you who would like to address this first from the public. Kyle Smith. Okay, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. I did not intend to speak on this besides to say that it did originate as one change coupled with the CS zoning and so that's a
 while you're looking at the same changes proposed for it. Those two zones are very similar except for their intensity. And so it was originally written to keep them in similar form. The question was asked about the percentage of the land use of the land mass that was UT was 1.23%. So less than one and a half percent of the land
 About a year ago, and I believe the council has rezoned a couple of parcels UT along MLK since then. So it may be a few acres more than that, but still fairly insignificant. The follow up on the RSF4, that in its own right is 29.3% of the land mass. So, yeah.
 Sorry, I don't have further decimal precision for you there. Well, that's close enough. I knew it would be something similar to that, and I'm not surprised. Anything else, Kyle? No, Mayor. Thank you. Okay. I'll be happy to keep my spreadsheet open in case anybody has a question. Okay. Who else, Susan? Nobody? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussions do we want to have or comments or?
 I'll make a brief comment. I expect this one will probably held tonight too. If you do think this is a problem in CS, then it makes even more sense to me that we would do it in UT. UT is supposed to be even more intense than community services.
 I think one of the reasons that we haven't seen it be used is because we just haven't zoned much of it. And I mean, almost all the biggest UT zoning we've done was just very recently, and the developers are still doing the plans for it now. We heard a little bit about those when we were looking at the railroad crossing at the end of 2020. There's just not that much of it. But if past is prologue,
 it seems reasonable to predict that it would be a problem if we continue to rezone large swaths of land, just as we have with community services. That's my prediction. Okay. Okay. What else? I'd be up for holding it as well, but I totally agree with Council Member Petty because what we're looking at is an opportunity to be preventative,
 you know, try to encourage that more denser development and not, not single family homes. And as much as I, I want to allow people to have all these options, there's two thirds of the city sounds like has a lot of single family homes. And so what we're trying to do, especially through these thoroughfares and these,
 these neighborhoods that don't have services is to make opportunities for people not to drive and you know not that they can't ever make a single family home but I just feel like
 I appreciate that former council Kyle Smith came on and explained with and shared with us that it is the intention, historic intention, to create that type of neighborhood. And so I think this is our opportunity to revamp, revisit. How do we, you know, we made it the first time. It didn't quite work out that way.
 to kind of get the results. So I definitely don't want to make a decision tonight, but I feel like it's our opportunity to revisit and consider how to encourage what we're looking for. Okay.
 I have a few thoughts. Go ahead, Sloan. Yeah, I actually think on this one, I don't see a lot of developers going through the political pressure and the fights of the neighbors to go UT and then at the end of it go, gotcha, it's single family. I just don't see that actually happening. I think if they wanted to do single family in an area, they would zone it single family because it's easier.
 As far as the politics in the neighborhood, so I think this one it doesn't really matter. Honestly, I don't think people are going to go through the effort to zone UT and then not not actually.
 do the high rises and the dense stuff that's allowed in it. So I'll go either way. I don't think anybody's gonna sue us and be like, oh, I was gonna build a whole bunch of single family in there and now I've got to build high rises. Okay, thanks. Okay. So I have a comment. This council just approved rezoning the Maranoni property and most of that was UT.
 And if you heard what Ms. Maranoni was talking about, the flexibility that she was talking about, this might restrict some of their development.
 because you know they could have tiny little single-family homes in there kind of similar to what's down in South Fayetteville. They could be looking at that. So I just want to point that out that yes we did rezone to UT just a month ago for I can't remember the acreage at least 80 acres it might even be more than that. I think the whole parcel was 112 but there was some that was CS.
 Consider that. That's some recent action. Okay. I have a quick question. Sorry, Mayor. They would be grandfathered in, right? They're not. It's six months. Is this one a six-month one as well? Yes. That's what I recommend. We have all of these with that six-month grandfathering in. Okay. Thank you. That's a really good point, but you could have another large development like that come through.
 And while it doesn't prohibit it, it certainly sets the bar a lot higher for the developer. Okay. Anybody else? Mayor, just Jonathan Curtis from Development Services. Just to follow up on the answers I was unable to respond to earlier, I can't identify a single property in the city that's zoned UT and has been developed with single-family homes. There are a handful with single-family homes that were already existing before they were zoned and
 And former Councilmember Smith's percentages on the zoning districts appear to be spot on. It's about one and a quarter percent of the city is zoned UT and just shy of 30 percent is zoned RSF4. If you take CS and UT combined, it's still about just under 3 percent of the city's land area. Thanks. Oh, that one was messed up on it. Okay, any other questions?
 this actually good conversation to tell you the truth but anyway um i assume we're going to leave this on this reading unless someone is disagrees with that okay see no opposition let's move on to number three uh resolution to approve the transportation division payment management and sidewalk construction and maintenance work plans for 2021-2022 uh this is 2019 street improvement bond project chris
 I'm here mayor sorry just trying to get everything turned on there we go so this is the the yearly work plan for the the Transportation Division that we have our yearly budgets for it's it's noted as a bond program because there are some bond funds included in both of these work plans as supplement supplemental funding but this is the the work plan for the year so the sidewalk program
 We use a scoring system that we developed a couple of years ago as part of our mobility plan to make decisions about the sidewalk plan. So the projects that have come out of that have come from that scoring system. We've got about
 1,800 feet of new sidewalk will be constructed by transportation, about 2,300 that we have proposed for some contractor construction work. The program also includes eight to ten bus shelter pads that we've got that were determined and selected by the Transportation Committee last year, and then we've got about 4,400 feet of maintenance and replacement work on the sidewalk
 plan. This is a two-year plan. We also have 2022 and some major projects identified for 2022 that we'll be designing this year as part of the program. Similarly, we have on the pavement
 Pavement management program. We have a pavement software that we've used. It was developed the last couple of years. That is used to make decisions about what projects we do.
 We've run that program and then our transportation division uses their knowledge of other projects. We work with water and sewer to determine what projects they're working on to include those projects in the plan. Get everything put together, starting with the software and then the human element comes in and makes the final tweaks to the plan.
 2021 we have about 21 miles of proposed maintenance and 2022 is about 19 miles. Again this is a two-year plan but we update it every year as things change throughout the year and we will then come back with the with the two-year plan towards the end of this year. So with that I'll answer any questions. Okay what questions do we have from Portress on this from the council?
 Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Residents will speak first.
 Press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address it from the public on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have no public comment. This is a resolution. What discussions, what's the wishes of the council? I have a quick question for Chris here. Chris, I've been getting some comments on the
 the extension of the sidewalk along Mission. And that was at our meeting, that was at our transportation meeting, that was in our 22, is that correct? 2022 meeting.
 That's correct. That's a project that's under design right now. It's not in this work plan for sidewalk because that's a trails program. That's a separate discussion.
 I was looking for it and I didn't see it on there. Yes, it is still proposed. And we're working on that project right now. We've got preliminary designs. We're trying to get a better feel for exactly where the right-of-way is and where property ownerships are. And then we're going to be sending that out for review by all the property owners. So we're getting closer on that. Thank you. That was my mistake. I was just... Yes, Sarah, I've been getting a few of the same...
 calls and emails you're getting I'm sure on the mission project what else do we have well this is a resolution so what would y'all like to do I move we approve the resolution if there's not any other questions I second that we have a motion and a second to pass resolution any final comments from the council okay Karen would you please call the roll Erksford yes Gutierrez yes Jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 All right, number four, an ordinance to amend 168.12, Streamside Protection Zone C, establishment of designated surface waters to incorporate applicable streams within areas which may be annexed after the adoption of the Streamside Protection Ordinance into the protections of Streamside Protection Zones and to adopt an emergency clause, KIPP.
 Whereas on March 1, 2011, the Fayetteville City Council enacted into the Unified Development Code Section 168.12 Streamside Protection Zones and adopted the Protected Streams Map. And whereas the adopted Protected Streams Map is within the Streamside Protection Best Management Practices Manual, which facilitates quick and accurate application of the Streamside Protection Zones,
 and should be able to be administratively amended by the city engineer to recognize and include streams and areas which may be annexed after the original adoption of the protected streams map now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 at the city council of the city of favela arkansas hereby amend section 168 and 1 2 streamside protection zone subsection c establishment of designated surface waters and subsection 1 by repealing subsection 1 in its entirety and enacting a new subsection 1 as follows
 Subsection 1, all surface waters identified on the adopted protected streams map, which may be administratively amended by the city engineer to reflect applicable surface waters within annexed areas, including any pond, lake, or reservoir located within the natural drainage way of said surface water.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Haverhill-Arkshark, by amends Section 168.1.2.C, by enacting a new Subsection 3 as follows. Subsection 3, surface waters that would have otherwise been protected, but were outside the city limits when Ordinance No. 5390 was adopted on March 1, 2011.
 shall be automatically included as designated surface waters within the requirements of Section 168.1.2, Streamside Protection Zones, upon the annexation into Fayetteville of the property on which the surface waters are located. Section 3, Emergency Clause. In order to protect the health and safety of Fayetteville citizens and residents by ensuring areas...
 that might soon be annexed into Fayetteville can be properly protected by the streamside protection regulations, this ordinance must be made effective immediately. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists and determines that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay, Chris, you have this one.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is an issue that came to light as we were discussing the annexation that was talked about earlier tonight. The way the ordinance was written, it did reference the map, and the map shows areas only within the city limits.
 So this clarifies two things. One, that we can amend the map as necessary as items come in, as annexations occur. And also that areas that would otherwise be protected and meet the criteria for protection will automatically be protected. And we actually have already updated the map to make it much more clear which streams in the planning area would be protected if annexed. So that work has already been done.
 and I can answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, both in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address.
 federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you so who would like to address first from the public okay nobody from the public i'm going to bring it back to the okay uh nicholas anthony go ahead
 Well thank you. I just have a few questions because I'm the person that lives next to the property 3301 East Zion Road next to the property that started this discussion with regard to the streamside protection. I have a question with regard to what happens when a widened stream enters a more narrow stream which would be the case in here. In this case the narrow stream is in a county
 whereas the water is coming out of the city. So this has been created because of that donut hole situation that is coming with the potential annexing and rezoning of this property. And I'm concerned that all of a sudden I'm going to get a large volume of water trying to squeeze into a smaller stream and it's going to create a tremendous amount of turbulence
 Um, as that, uh, pinch point occurs and really result in more stream bank erosion in my, uh, on my property. So I would like to hear how that would be addressed, um, with this and, uh, you know, pretty much just hopefully the council members have looked at the new FEMA map that has come out with regard to flooding because Hilton Creek is a lot wider now than what it was, uh,
 several years back when the last time this was done. So, I mean, I just see that based on what's going on with stream side protection that this stream would become very, very wide based on it extending past the floodplain. So anyway, those are the few things that I had to bring up. I really am curious about how
 My property would be impacted, seeing as it's still in the county. And I don't feel that the committee has actually tried to resolve this donut hole situation that has been created by the potential of this annexing and rezoning of this property. Thank you. Okay. Well, to answer the question, we'll probably eat up most of your time in minutes, but I will have Chris answer the question if there's any.
 time left for you then then we will let you continue on chris you want to try and answer that
 Well, I suppose the, I mean, some of the question I think is related to the proposed development and more water that may be flowing in the stream. And the answer to that is that our drainage ordinances, the theory behind them is they don't increase the amount of flow beyond what's currently flowing off site.
 There's a lot of detail related to that. But with regard to stream side protection, the stream side protection ordinance requires a setback from any protected stream. There's the first 25 feet from the top of bank.
 has much more restrictive requirements. Then the next 25 feet also has some restrictive requirements. Essentially what the stream side protection ordinance is designed to do is to reduce development right up on top of our streams and create a little bit of a riparian buffer. That's the intent of this ordinance.
 It doesn't really speak to how wide the stream is or widening requirements related to additional flow or anything like that. It really doesn't speak to some of the questions that Mr. Anthony asked. Yeah, well, I mean, that's what my concern is, is that there's gonna be more water coming because the water from the development, the 40 acres of development is gonna be diverted to.
 the property to detention ponds, at least in theory, detention ponds that will drain in ahead of the water. So currently, the runoff from the property comes through my property and through my pond, and then through a stream that connects to Hilton Creek. So we will have additional water coming into this region because of the development.
 and it'll be collected in that riparian area that you're talking about. It's going to be a lot wider. So again, the speed of water coming into my property is going to cause a problem. I mean, there's no doubt. I mean, it's physics. It's simple physics. So I hope that this is taken and addressed because I don't know who's liable. If a decision is made with regard to this property, who's liable for the flooding that could happen in the stream bank erosion that's going to happen because of this pinch point. So anyway. Yeah.
 That's what I have. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Joseph Robertson. Go ahead. Good evening. I'm Joseph Robertson, 3397 East Sound Road. I just had a question about what the enactment of this protection ordinance would have for existing structures. If you already mentioned that, I'm sorry, I missed it.
 I don't know exactly who wants to address that from staff. Well, I would assume that the question is related to protection from flooding of existing structures.
 And again, this ordinance doesn't speak to that. This ordinance is about protecting the stream and the riparian area along the stream and the water quality in the stream itself. It does not have any impact on flooding or anything like that, at least not directly. That's why we call it the Streamside Protection Ordinance. Correct.
 May I respond, Mr. Mayor? Well, sure. You've got five minutes. My question was regarding if you enact this protection ordinance and you have requirements for the first 25 feet and then the next 25 feet, is that retroactive? What does it mean for the existing property owners besides just potential flood impact of other changes? Sure.
 I'm trying to get a sense for what it means to those of us that already have structures in place.
 Sure. Okay. Yeah, that's, uh, there are, um, there are some, there are some details in the, in the ordinance that we could go through, um, with you in, in more detail if you'd like, but, um, essentially there are allowances for, um, you know, grandfathering being able to operate, uh, the way you're operating now. Um, there are BMPs that we would encourage. Um, so if you're,
 For instance, mowing up all the way to the edge of a stream. You know, that would the BMPs would would look at doing something different to that, even planting trees or allowing the stream bank to to grow up naturally, those sorts of things. But essentially, yeah.
 However, you're operating now, if brought into the city, then you would be able to continue to operate. There are allowances for existing structures that are within streamside zones. They can be improved. The footprints generally can't be made larger, especially not towards the stream itself. But there are variance processes for that as well that could go through planning commission if necessary. Thank you very much.
 Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion? What's wishes to council here? I guess I'd like to see council to talk about the liabilities that somebody brought up. I have a pretty good idea of what they are, but I want to make sure it's clear for the people that called in and asked. Okay.
 Well, I don't, as a city attorney, I'm going to not really give advice to private individuals about what liabilities they might have or against whom. I do can tell the city council that I don't think the Spring Tribe Protection Ordinance is going to bring liabilities to the city, especially because...
 that we've already had it in place for uh all of the cities for quite a while and it will be in place if you pass it tonight with the emergency clause before any other stream would be brought into the city and so as a regulation that's already in place before a land gets annexed into the city i think we're pretty safe in that particular regard so i think
 For liability to the city, I think it's very small. And obviously, if there's flooding back and forth between neighbors, that's really between them. That's not a city issue. That's an issue. If they can't agree between themselves, they'll have to go to court and have the judge or jury decide who might be liable. But it's not something that my office can advise individuals about.
 I mean, Sloan, we had the same discussions back in 2011 when we passed this. And the purpose of the Streamside Protection Ordinance is to slow the water down where it can go in and recharge the aquaculture. And then we had people that was in the Streamside Protection Area, and we grandfathered them in where we wouldn't affect their homes.
 if i remember correctly that is correct and when there was no litigation we also had this uh a period of time so people could actually build and buy despite the screen side protection ordinance for a period of time yes they didn't do that then that the stream side protection was in in fact and in place and so it's been in place now for almost 10 years
 And a lot of the spring stride protection ordinance is to protect the stream banks. And that's what Chris has been telling you. It's not a flooding issue. It is a protection of the stream banks, which should improve the water quality and prevent damage to the stream and damage to people downstream. And that's the basic reasons that we have that, is to try to improve the water quality, especially the water quality for that's going into Beaver Lake, our water source.
 now that was some of the major reason we did it and that's why we had several uh people like the beaver water district coming forward and saying please adopt it if something needs to be done and so from a liability point of view i think the city's in pretty good shape individual liability for flooding between different individuals that's not for us to decide
 Okay, I appreciate it. I mean that was my understanding of just people's bandwidth changes based on how close stuff gets to them. So they may not have heard any of that until the last week or two. So I definitely plan on moving this forward, but I want to make sure the other council members have time to speak before I do that. I would second if you want to move forward. I move to suspend the rules and move to second reading. Second.
 All right, we have a motion to second and go to second. We care which police call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 In Ordinance of Man, Section 168.12, Streamside Protection Zones, Subsection C, Establishment of Designated Surface Waters to Incorporate Applicable Streams Within Areas Which May Be Annexed After the Adoption of the Streamside Protection Ordinance Into the Protections of the Streamside Protection Zones and to Adopt an Emergency Clause. Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to amend Section 168.1.2, Streamside Protection Zones, Subsection C, Establishment of Designated Surface Waters.
 to incorporate applicable streams within areas which may be annexed after the adoption of the streamside protection ordinance into the protections of the streamside protection zones and to adopt an emergency clause. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council on this? I just want to say thanks to Kit for getting it together, getting all the wording and time for us to consider this proposed annexation.
 you're very welcome and chris uh was right on the ball uh helping me out on this ordinance getting it drafted right because i remember the first one that took a little bit we had some dissent at that one not from the council but there were some citizens that did not seem to like that there was uh i think mark was on the council then matthew was on the council i i think that was about it but we we spent a while on that it's good ordinance still is all right any other final comments from council
 Kerr, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Now I need a vote on the emergency clause. We need a motion to second on the emergency clause. Move to approve the emergency clause. Seconded. We have a motion to second to pass the emergency clause.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Do y'all want a break? I think I could use about six, seven minutes here. It's 8 o'clock. I need a little break. All right, me too.
 We'll be back in about seven minutes. All right. Let's go ahead and get started again. All right. Number five, a resolution to approve the second two-year renewal contract startup Junkie Consulting LLC to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation in the total amount of $300,000. Devin.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council Members. My name is Devin Howland, Director of Economic Vitality for the City of Fayetteville. As Mayor mentioned, the item before you for your consideration is the second renewal of a contract for entrepreneurship and innovation with Startup Junkie Consulting. The item has a cost of $150,000 annually, and what this contract does is simple.
 As the primary point of contact for small businesses, it holds their headquarters center space in downtown Fayetteville. We receive a majority of the regional education programming, which they do very well. It holds the startup column in Fayetteville, and they dedicate one full-time employee equivalent to the Department of Economic Vitality for anything we might need, a component we used a great deal during the pandemic and that staff feels is critical moving forward.
 You might remember we did significant revisions with this contract in 2018, very minimal revisions in this version. We're very proud of the work they've done through the pandemic. And I'm going to turn it over to Jeff Amarine now to present what they've done and where this contract can go. Jeff, it's all yours. Thank you, Devin. Jeff, you have 10 minutes to present.
 Yes sir. Thank you Mr. Mayor, Council Members. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen here and we've got a few slides that we'll go through. Bear with me just one second. All right, get it to screen share, slide share here. Hold on just a second. Okay. Okay.
 All right, thank you again, everybody. It's been an honor over the course of the last several years to work closely with Fayetteville to drive a small business and startup community. Just a few overall comments to kind of set the stage that I think are relevant. The Kauffman Foundation would tell you that 85% of all net new jobs over the course of the last 20 years have been the result of startups and small business. The Small Business Administration would tell you that 99% of all US employment is in startups and small business.
 So these functions as an entrepreneurial support organization to small businesses and startups that typically don't have the dollars for professional consulting are critical to achieve survivability and viability of the small business scene. And all of our services are completely free to the startups we serve. So to get into some specifics, and there is a heck of a lot of detail.
 on these slides, so I'm not going to read all these key points, but the pandemic response was an important part of what we've been engaged in over the course of the last year. Thematically, we were, as many groups were, forced to improvise, adapt, and overcome the circumstances. At times, we felt a little bit like emergency room doctors for small business and startups who were facing real existential challenges.
 concerns and threats during the pandemic due to public safety issues that were causing lockdowns and a significant decrease in business. So the reaction to that was quick. Beginning in March of 2020, in those days when it was clear that we were going to have pretty significant business disruption, we continued our no-cost consulting sessions, which were largely live on a virtual basis. The mentoring continued at the same pace.
 In addition, there were a number of task forces created to look at finding PPE to work on government and a public-private response to the pandemic, and we played an active role in those regional groups to help improve the situation. In addition, very early on in the process, it was clear that federal –
 and state involvement was going to be required as a response in terms of funding. So we were quick to push out survey instrument to 400 local small businesses to find out what the impact was. This was a critical step in getting the governor to go ahead and make a disaster declaration to open up the what they call the EIDL funding package from the Small Business Administration.
 In addition, because we have a very diverse community and because the CARES Act had comprehensive but very confusing payroll protection provisions, we went ahead not only on a regular basis submitted that for public consumption with very clear guidelines in English, but we also included Spanish translation very early in the process with the help of the University of Arkansas Social Innovation Group.
 So these are just a few key examples of things we did in active response. Another thing that was very clear was that digital transformation of all the some 250 events per year that we typically run was going to need to be required to make it accessible. So in the course of about two and a half to three weeks, we took all of the content that we would typically run in live workshops and turn that into a comprehensive digital library.
 of content for small businesses, innovation, entrepreneurship. It's on a YouTube channel, and it's a wealth of good information that's accessible throughout Fayetteville and really anywhere at no cost to entrepreneurs. The other thing we did that was clear was it was very evident that there needed to be
 an approach to entrepreneurship in the coming years, not only in response to the pandemic, but in general, that pushed policy initiatives that federal, state, and municipal leadership should take a look at. So along with the Kauffman Foundation's business plan for America, we built 60 recommendations that were widely submitted that are intended to drive policy discussions to help improve the recovery as we move forward.
 On the next slide here, I know there's always on these types of services contracts interest in what are the outputs and what are the outcomes that are delivered. We served over 1,000 Fayetteville entrepreneurs with high-quality one-on-one free consulting, mentoring, and training. Of those, 289 were women-owned ventures, 154 were minority-owned ventures, and 53 were veteran-owned. And the businesses we served ranged from extremely high-tech ventures.
 semiconductor companies like Ozark Integrated Circuits to new restaurants like Tula and everything in between. During the course of that time frame, contract time frame, we also executed 256 events, workshops, and programs serving over 19,000 attendees. And the data is based on a monthly tracking database that we've developed over the years that ensures that we have really accurate data on what our output metrics are.
 The other thing is important are the measurable items that measure the outcomes of the services that we provide. Some 685 net new jobs were created, 90 million in capital was raised by our clients, 1.6 million in grants, state and federal was secured, 261 new product services and solutions were brought to market, 72 patents and patent applications, 19 SBIR and STTR awards received,
 You know, we assisted 51 unique Fayetteville retail restaurant and accommodation ventures through multiple different engagements during this timeframe. And the top five bullets were based on data received from 98 client companies in Fayetteville that were surveyed. It's important to have measurable outcomes.
 There was a lot of additional notable activities and added to what we were doing. One was in particular the work in support of intellectual property intensive companies with support for SBIR and STTR awards.
 maintaining a very close relationship with the University of Arkansas and the research park. We worked with companies like Wattglass, Bloom Green, Surf Tech, and the ones you see here in Phygenics and others. These are critical in that these are high wage rate jobs that tend to build clusters where you can have additional high wage rate retention of talent that comes out of the
 We were actively involved with the University of Arkansas National Science Foundation, the I-Corps program to help spin out more ventures. We lead and grow the only active angel group in Arkansas, the Archangel Alliance, and we have continued to work closely on the SLS Communities Project aimed at South Fayetteville that will have
 a multi-generational impact on those that are developmentally disabled. This has been a long time in coming and there's really been great progress on it, and you're going to see more to come in the coming years. This gives you an idea of some additional notable things that we've been involved with. The center space, which is a space we maintain in Fayetteville,
 It's fairly expensive to maintain. It's a University of Arkansas building. It's not only the place where our team resides and where we have client meetings. It's available for entrepreneurs and others to hold workshops. It's a very flexible space. We're proud to be in that location as our main location for all of our operations.
 We continued extremely high cadence of activities across a variety of different events during the downturn, the pandemic. And I think a lot of these things serve to buoy the overall entrepreneurial attitude and the fact that they were not alone in this process that they were going through. But it was a ton of good events and content that we put on.
 And then finally, one of the hallmark events that you've come to know is the startup crawl. This has been a three-year process, 2017, 2018, and 2019, with attendance increasing each and every year up until the pandemic. And in fact, in 2019, we had more attendees by three times than what a larger metropolitan area of Kansas City had, over 2,000 attendees. And it was extremely engaging.
 In the face of the pandemic, we had to figure out what to do with that sort of marquee event. If you have about one more minute. All right. And I think I'm about to conclude. And we turned that into Startup Week, which was a week of very engaging content that was both hybrid and virtual. So that was another example of how we adapted to the situation. And then finally, going forward, there's a few key things that we'll focus on. And I'll just highlight some.
 one or two key points. It's obvious that we're going to have to continue to respond to the limitations associated with the new world under the pandemic. And so we're going to emphasize training e-commerce and making sure that small retailers and others have effective ways of reaching their customers. That will be a significant new add to our activities. In addition to all the other things that we have done in the past, that's going to be one that will be emphasized in the future.
 The idea is to accelerate recovery using the best practices. And that is the end of the presentation. I'd be happy to take any questions if we have time. Okay. What questions do we have? I have a couple of questions. Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff, for your presentation. And thank you, Devin, too, for helping to coordinate it. I've got a couple of questions just to understand a couple of things for you, Jeff. And then maybe a question for you, Devin, after that. Okay.
 Jeff, I think there might be a perception in town, and it's one that I've had for a while, but I'm starting to think that maybe I was wrong about it. And I think maybe a lot of other people still have this impression that startup junk only works with startups. And from your presentation, you mentioned a couple of companies that are long standing. For instance, you mentioned Ozark Integrated Circuits, which has been around for a little while.
 I don't know where you draw the line on startups. That's not my business, but it seems like you're serving a wider population than just startups. And I was wondering if you might characterize that
 the kinds of client companies that you do have? Yeah, absolutely. It's a good question. And thank you for that. I mean, in general, the free services we offer are available to companies from pre-revenue to about 25 million in sales. The idea is that those are still companies that are in a range where it'd be very difficult for them to retain a McKinsey or KPMG level of consultancy. And so,
 But if we're able to get them beyond the friction points that typically cause companies to stall in terms of their growth, then amazing things can happen. So, yeah, Ozark IC has been a research intensive company for 10 years with a number of patents. They're just now on the verge of breaking out and getting into production. And we have played kind of an essential role in advising them on capital raises, how to take advantage of state incentives, how to attract talent, how to think about that transition to production.
 That's one of many companies we deal with. And we have the same sorts of conversations with restaurants, restaurant change at all levels that are still within that kind of revenue range where they would qualify as a small business. That's great. Thank you for explaining that. Sure. Yeah.
 As a follow-up question, I was paying careful attention to what you were saying and what you had on the screen with your outcomes that you were presenting. And I think I heard you say that those were outcomes that you had measured with, I think you said 98 client companies?
 So I wanted to ask just to check this out. Were those outcomes only associated with the companies that you had worked directly with or were those citywide outcomes that you just you just measured? Those were just our clients and it wasn't all of our clients. It was a sample size of 98 out of the many hundreds that we work with.
 Okay, so when you say that, that leads me to believe that those are clients that you're having a close relationship with, not just somebody that you have a phone call with that goes on the list. Absolutely. I mean, absolutely. It tends to be the clients that we've engaged with multiple times. In some ways, our services are kind of like a doctor's office. We'll give them the tools they need to be successful, right?
 when we'll give them the homework, they'll go out and do some things. They'll use us as a sounding board at some point in the future. So the more they engage, the more they tend to be in that sample size and responding to the survey data that we send out. Okay, that's great. I have one more question before I ask my question to Devin. One more question for you, Jeff. One of the things that I've been able to see an impact with with some of my colleagues is a program that you have called the Scale-Up Cohorts.
 Now, I was wondering if you might just give a brief description of what those cohorts are for. Yeah, it's actually a good question. So the Scale-Up Program was funded by the U.S. Small Business Administration during the Obama administration. And we ran actually four of those Scale-Up cohorts. This was aimed at businesses that were between $100,000 and $500,000 in revenue.
 When the administration changed, the funding for that program ended, but all the work that we had done to build that platform did not end. We took that same format and we use it for a statewide program available to companies across Arkansas called the 10X Growth Accelerator, the very same type of approach with a little bit of an expanded revenue range.
 and also the fuel accelerator that's run by the Startup Junkie Foundation. So those key components are still used in two programs that have state AEDC funding rather than federal.
 And it's proved to be essential. Now, I will say that we're a little bit optimistic and hopeful with the new administration that there might be funding again for the scale up program. And if so, we would apply for that because it did a lot of good things for a lot of companies in the area that were trying to figure out how to break out of the revenue range that they were in. I'll make sure to call my congressional representatives. OK, thank you, Jeff. A question for you, Devin. Thank you, Jeff.
 A big part of Mr. Amarine's report was COVID response. I think that was the first part of the report even. And I wanted to ask you, in your position as the manager of these contracts, if you would characterize just informally what it was like working with Startup Junkie in the days immediately after the pandemic started.
 Absolutely, Councilmember Petty, happy to. And as you all get to know me, you know, brevity is not one of my strong suit at times, and there's literally a 50-page report on my website outlining this work because we recognized very early on, I need to document this. I'm going to write it down. So that report starts March 12th, and that's kind of where it all began. Jeff and Brett, my office, that was, I believe, the day that Mayor had announced
 the declaration of the emergency and it was what turned it was supposed to be a regular scheduled meeting turned into a somebody that saw the writing on the wall away um it was wonderful in the sense that um you know i feel and i kind of jokingly said you know maybe i've used that one fte component of the contract because i relied on them for a lot there's expertise there in regards to these federal programs with finance banking etc that i don't have internally
 And so working with that, it was consistent. It was reliable, but it was fast. And in a time and I go back and I talk about this in the report, I believe I mentioned it at council. And I don't pretend to have had problems over the past year. I'm so lucky compared to some. But in a time when there was so much unknown and uncertainty, what became very clear was what we could control was information.
 and getting that information out fast and at the rate of which billions of dollars in PPP were getting chomped at was giving me nightmares. And I think all of us, too. And so it was essential to get that out. And, you know, we could lean on that and we could just say, you know, I need guidance on this. I know you're going to do this. I need I need it now. And it was urgent. It was different, but it was very, very clear. And I think the other thing, too, that was comforting about this contract through the pandemic.
 was the practicing what you preach when they said improvise, adapt, overcome. That digital transformation to adapt to our current situation was crucial, all the way from mental health to the happy hours they did via Zoom to a really quick with Startup Week. I mean, you know, Jeff, they didn't touch on that a lot, but if you participated in that, you realized, I mean, you were having craft beer delivered to your house since you could not go and have these vendors. Right.
 And it was getting streamed in using assets like Fayetteville Public Television. So I could spend all night talking about that, which is why I wanted to get my thoughts on that report. But also just for the future, as we collaborate with other cities, I think it's going to be important to look back on.
 Thank you. I read your report very carefully. I appreciate that you put it together and that you're summarizing it for us here tonight and for the audience. I had a follow-up question for you. You said that you leaned heavily on the one FTE, the one full-time equivalent position that we had in the contract. I read the contract carefully as well, but I was hoping that you would summarize verbally for us
 What kind of guarantees are in the contract in front of us for dedicated resources? Is that in terms of FTE or person hours or would you just verbally explain that? Absolutely. When I say FTE, I'm using the baseline of, you know, 2080 hours a year is what you consider a typical working year. I think it's like 2048 if we take a leap year in.
 But in looking at that, it's kind of this baseline, and that was added in 2018 after discussions around what this contract is specifically doing. And specificity is really important to me, and that's why we made those revisions. And looking at that, it's really a sounding board, too. So that's kind of why we added that in. But the measurements specifically answer your question is, you know, I based that off of, you know, what's my cost to add somebody in?
 internally. And so that's kind of where I base that at. And so for startup junkie, just put a super fine point on it in this contract. It's, it's one FTE in the contract or it's. It's one FTE. Yes, sir. Got it. Got it. Thank you. Leave it in section one. Yep. Thank you so much. Okay. That's it for me now. Thank you. And what are the questions do we have in the council?
 I just want to say I look forward to the continued support of Startup Junkie. About two years ago, I actually brought an idea to them and had a meeting, and they had a pretty candid conversation with me and said,
 Basically, in effect, the thing I brought to them, they said that I'm probably going to get beat on. And in about four months, they expect my competition to basically create the thing I'm wanting to. And I know it's not in any of your metrics, but wasted resources, not having those is really important. And and and.
 They were absolutely correct. About four months later, a product that I couldn't compete with came out, and I had not wasted four months of my time or money on other people. So I appreciate that. I think that this is absolutely wonderful that it's in Fayetteville, mostly based in Fayetteville, and I hope we continue that. So thank you. Mayor Joyner, I'm sorry. Go ahead, DeAndre. Go ahead, DeAndre.
 Devin and Jeff, thank you so much for your report. And Devin, I know that we've talked a little bit about minority-owned businesses. And Jeff, I would really like to hear more about what you described with creating an opportunity for individuals with disabilities in South Fayetteville. I'm really interested in knowing about that.
 I think that's really special and amazing. Thank you for that. Absolutely. And would you like me to say a little bit about that now, or do you want me to follow up with you later? Either way is fine. I would go ahead. Okay. Okay. That's fine. Well, well, so, so the SLS communities is intended to be a comprehensive work, live, play community. And it was started by Ashton McCombs, who is the CEO of Vigenics and his wife, Beth McCombs, who had, um,
 an adult developmentally disabled child that is on the significant end of the autism spectrum. And there weren't significantly good residential communities and also pathway to employment
 for them based on all the national survey work they had done and really looking for a place. So they created this out of the situation that they've experienced themselves. And since that time there's been a land purchase, there's been a lot of discussion with a variety of key people about getting this pathway to employment. 85 percent of developmentally disabled adults and people on the autism spectrum are unemployed.
 And so it was a big problem. And it's going to be very comprehensive when it realizes its zenith and full vision in terms of live-work-play integrated into the community to where it's not a group that's sitting off in an institution somewhere. There'll be a variety of fantastic things on this property that is in South Fayetteville near the campus.
 Kessler Park. And they started with some initial initiatives to just raise awareness of what it takes for employment managers to get the beneficial employment out of those that are on the spectrum. Because a lot of times employment managers don't have a clue as to where to start, how to interview or how to engage these folks. So
 We got involved with that early on, introduced the founders to the city and have been working with them in a comprehensive way ever since. And it's a big project that requires a lot of
 money to actually pull off, but it's coming together in a really nice way. And it's been kind of an all hands on deck where there's been lots of support from the city, from the chamber and from a variety of folks in town who want to see this happen. So it'll be a one of a kind kind of a place that will be based right here in Fayetteville that hopefully will set a national standard once it's done. Absolutely. So Jeff,
 Are you looking at, I guess, collaborating and partnering with some of the existing organizations that provide somewhat similar services? Absolutely. It's not intended to replace anything or compete with. It's intended to augment and add additional capability to the area with lifestyles and a variety of other groups that are doing fantastic work already.
 And when do you think, when is a, do you think that that may start?
 It's a good question. A lot of that will be driven by how quickly the funding comes together and the master plan gets built out on the space. They're already working actively with one residential home now and getting sort of the clinical side of it figured out on a small scale. So they're already serving a constituency now. They're just doing it on a very small scale and it will continue to expand as the funding comes in on the development side.
 Well, Jeff, again, thank you so much. And at some point I will be reaching out because I would like to, I guess if I can take somewhat of a tour and learn more about it, MDF, but I think that's a very valuable, important, much needed service. It will definitely move our community forward. Thank you for that. Absolutely. Thank you. I really do appreciate all the hard work you've put into this. And
 I look forward, we've had such a good relationship with Startup Junkie, and I look forward to the continuation of that relationship. And I just cannot, in talking with Devin, I'm just amazed at how quickly you were able to come out with all these ideas and really help us help our citizens and our small businesses in Fayetteville during an unprecedented time. And, you know, I just wanted to acknowledge that.
 Thanks. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have five minutes in two and three segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Name and address. Residents of federal will be allowed to speak first.
 press star nine on your phone or raise your hand in zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address from the public okay now i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution uh so what's the wishes the council move to approve the resolution okay i second it we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution uh any final comments from council
 I do have a comment, Mayor Jordan. I'm sad that there wasn't anyone from the public here to speak, but the impact that I think that Startup Junkie has had on the community, including my personal experience with it as well before being on council, has been really phenomenal.
 they've been invaluable to multiple businesses that I've started and, and kept running. And some of them didn't, didn't do as well as others, but, but they were definitely a key part of all of those. And so, I just want to speak on behalf of those people who weren't able to be here, who have had a really great experience for free services from Startup Junkie. So thanks for all y'all do. Anybody else? Okay. Please call the roll.
 Hertzberg yes. Yes Jones yes Kenyon yes, Eddie yes, Scroggins yes, bench yes Turk yes. OK, thank you all very much. Let's move along number 6.
 Resolution approved the second two-year renewal contract with the Federal Chamber of Commerce in the amount of $180,000 per year to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of business recruitment, retention and expansion.
 Thank you, Mayor. Council, the item before you for your consideration is the second renewal of a contract for economic development consulting services with the Fayetteville Chamber, which staff is recommending approval of. The item actually has a cost of $180,000 annually, same as past. The impetus of our initial professional recommendation at exploring reduction of services under this contract was to look at new services that might not fit or giving us some flexibility to the pandemic. However, this version of the contract does add new services.
 The additions stay within the two pillars that the Chamber excels at, and that is managing projects with the Arkansas Economic Development Commission and their areas of workforce development. The draft below for you tonight was developed by myself and the Chamber. I do want to thank Zane for working hard with me to get it to this point. It's specific and it's measurable.
 And now I'm going to turn it over to Zane Chenault, the Chief Economic Development Officer with the Fayetteville Chamber, to talk about what this contract has done, the revisions, and moving forward as well. Zane, it's all yours. Okay, Zane, you have 10 minutes. Thank you very much, Mayor and City Council. I appreciate the time. My name is Zane Chenault, the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, and I am going to share my screen real quick, real slow.
 Let me minimize a couple things. Okay. As I said, my name is Zane Schnapp, the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. Opening statement here, I'm not going to read everything that's on the slide you're going to see, but I will point out a couple of takeaways. And the primary takeaway of this is that the chamber has had an 11-year working relationship with the city council. I think it's been a very good working relationship.
 In the past, especially the recent past, we've demonstrated a strong willingness to work together, compromise, and move forward in a mutually beneficial direction. A couple of things that you're going to hear throughout the next 10 minutes is that
 We are concentrating on a livable wage, not something that we've defined, but that is defined by MIT, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, at the direction of the Office of Economic Development, but Devon primarily. Inclusion, diversity, equity, and inclusion is important to us, and investment. Thank you.
 We've worked in very close collaboration with the city to develop a new contract that follows the direction set forward by the Office of Economic Vitality. And my slide's stuck. There we go. Apologies.
 Okay, I'm going to just a couple slides on the past and then I'm going to move into some of the changes because this is a contract change and there's some significant changes and I think that's what we need to spend the bulk of our time on tonight. Just some highlights. Again, I'm not going to read everything. We excel at targeted job growth and one of the other things that we've done very well is we published a book called A Calling.
 and we have a robotics center. We have the first robotics center in the state of Arkansas that actually issues certifications that are industry standard.
 In 2019, we issued 148 certifications and 2020, 70, down significantly due to COVID. We had to put everything on hold for a number of months. We did re-institute the classes at a much reduced class size, but we are still moving along with that and we expect 2021 and 2022 to easily exceed 100 per year.
 In the past, we've shown our successes in the number of visits and the number of VR&Es and a number of different things. But what Devin and I work together on is coming up with a new way to show the work that we're actually doing that we think benefits citizens of Fayetteville and the city of Fayetteville the most. And that's this project report that I've put together.
 The big takeaways here is that we are encouraging job growth and companies that provide income. And again, that's a livable wage as defined by MIT. That's something that we've come up with. We are not going to bring you or spend contract time on jobs that don't pay a living wage. A caveat is that if a company comes to us,
 and they want to expand, but they pay less than a living wage, we will certainly work with them. We'll do everything to get whatever they can in order to move to Fayetteville, but I'm not going to count it against this contract. This is one of the agreed upon pillars of the contract. One thing to note over the last year and a half, 70% of the funding that we've secured from the AEDC is from non-chamber members. So, but for this contract,
 that funding would not have been delivered to these clients. Talk a little bit about the new contract and the direction that we're setting. This slide here, what you see in blue is what we have traditionally delivered, and what you see in green are either significant changes to what we've traditionally delivered or their net new services.
 One of the things that we've done is we formalized project management process with actionable items and deadlines for the ADC, as well as other expansion projects.
 We are instituting a new business survey. And the idea behind this business survey is that we hope to survey every licensed business within the city of Fayetteville. We will send out electronic and social media requests for these surveys. We will track them by business license. And we're going to develop this process and develop and maintain and to report back to the city. This way, we will gain actionable data from all of the businesses within the city of Fayetteville.
 And anything that we do in terms of business surveys, outbound growth, the idea of diversity, equity, inclusion, that will be included in everything. When we say all businesses, we mean all businesses. One of the really exciting net new things to come out of this contract is a career atlas.
 And that career atlas is going to be very similar to a calling, but it's going to be digital. We are reserving space for the city to advertise for their jobs, but we're also going to focus on populations that face barriers. They're going to be LGBTQIA, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual, or ally. We're going to concentrate on everything.
 And as a chamber and as part of this career atlas, we want to make sure that we, forwardly, we honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals, regardless of race, gender, age, religion, identity, or heritage. Finally, we have new performance metrics that are going to be based on outputs and inputs.
 outputs and outcome. And one thing I want to note here is that to the absolute extent possible, the chamber refrained from input to these metrics. These metrics were devised by Devin and we fully support them. The only caveat there is that we didn't want to divulge confidential information. Anytime we engage with a client, we have a nondisclosure agreement. The thing that I'm the most excited about is our proactive growth plan.
 When I consider the most important change, it's something that Devon and I have talked about for a long time. It's one of the things that we talked about when I first started about. It is completely dependent, or not completely dependent, but very much dependent on the business surveys. So we will identify what we have, what we need to pursue to create a versatile business economy, and then seek out those businesses and attract them to fail. And just as the city proactively hunts CRE projects with recon projects,
 This has taken on an intentional offensive approach to attract new large-scale employers. As a city, we must be able to weather any storm, and a diversified employment base protects our residents and our local economy. Again, the reoccurring theme here is jobs that pay a living wage, as defined by MIT.
 I touched on the career Atlas. This is something that I believe will get a lot of synergy between both the city and the chamber. And while this contract as news, this is new and it's a significant deliverable from the chamber and it is something that is requested by the Department of Economic Factuality.
 Again, it's going to be similar to a calling, and the success of the calling is that that publication was distributed to every high school student in Fayetteville and every parent in Fayetteville. What we're going to be able to do with this digital publication is send it throughout Northwest Arkansas. So it will hit high school students. It will hit teachers.
 people who face barriers. It will hit people at NTI, the college, and people that aren't associated with any of those organizations. We want to blast this career outlist throughout the multi-county area. And we believe that not only will this help Fayetteville, but if you help your neighbor city, that's going to help Fayetteville as well. And again, you have about one minute to finish. All right, let me...
 I talked about the new business engagement system. I'm going to rush ahead because I want to get to the most important part. It's a digital business survey. I touched on that briefly. If you have any questions later, I'd be happy to answer that.
 The new metrics, again, these are metrics that I fully support. The chamber set back. We do not want to be an organization that defines our own measurement metrics for success. So this is something that the city came up with.
 What are most important is that we need to look ahead post pandemic. The next 18 to 24 months is going to be vitally important for the city of Fayetteville. There are a number of opportunities, projects that have been put on hold and once we get on the other side of this pandemic and we're three, six months away,
 Once we get on the other side of this pandemic, we are going to have to actively chase businesses to attract them to Fayetteville. A business once they're ready to, I'm sorry. Your time is up. That's fine, it was last night, thank you. All right, what questions do we have for council? Okay. I have a question. Yeah, sure. I guess I'll ask Devin this question.
 It's the same question I asked you about startup junkie. I was wondering if you could characterize the chamber's responsiveness and especially their flexibility with respect to contract definitions in the days and months immediately at the beginning of the pandemic.
 Absolutely. And one of the items that Zane did not touch on that I think is critically important when we think about pandemic response is these two contracts are very different. They do two very different things. And whereas you have a sheer small business focus on one, you really have the cornerstone building blocks of economic development on the other. And one of the items that he did not mention on the slide that I think is critically important is you got to see the active project side.
 And those projects, if you look at it, didn't lose many. They were able to hold on to those investments. And I do think that was critically important.
 And the days after the pandemic where I turned my attention to Zane has been an active member of our small business resiliency task force, but I'm going to run to the organization on the small business side. And so in regards to that, yes, I use that more, but in regards to the chamber, and I think that, you know, part of the revisions tell my experience with Zane in regards to flexibility has been huge. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 I guess I got a couple more questions. I'm having a little trouble understanding how the business recruitment stuff in this contract is different than what we've been doing over the past 10 plus years. Hasn't business recruitment of large employers into the Fayetteville area been at the center of our contracts forever?
 Yeah, happy to comment on that. Actually not. When we look at the actual language of the contract, the actual contract that was passed in 2016 was titled Business Retention and Expansion Services. And that was something that I noticed throughout these past few years. And it really didn't do justice to its intent. But language on actually proactively hunting and pursuing was not in the contract drafts. It is now.
 I guess I'm confused because I seem to remember getting billed for going out to conferences like the real estate and large commercial retail conferences out in Las Vegas to do recruitment. Those original from the recon were from the city of Fayetteville. I do remember looking at those. I was actually starting prior to my time.
 Recon expenditures when we go. One of the things, we actually did an amendment to the last contract so that the chamber could go with us. Because I had actually taken the retail section out of the 2016 version of the contract, and we pulled that internal. That was where our business development manager came in, and that was really kind of the big talking point in 2018 when we made that revision. That was the most significant revision.
 And so those bills and the funds that I spend on recon come solely from me. And because we had taken it out in the past, I wanted to cover that cost because when I plan a recon, I plan to take four people out there. And that's just part of my budget.
 So it was in the contract until 2013, but now it's new, going back in? It was actually in the contract until 2018, and I had taken that over. And actually, my first year in 2017, I advised not going because we needed to get booth, the logistics, et cetera, taken care of.
 And but this new component is actually not focused on retail. It actually specifically calls out the targeted industry sectors for employment side, which is was something I don't proactively. And so when we pulled that in, I only pulled in NAICS code 44, 45 and 72. So retail and then restaurants and accommodation like hotels, etc., bars.
 Okay, thanks for explaining that. I read in your memo that you had originally asked for a $100,000 contract and a reduction of services. And that now you wanted to bring this forward. I guess I didn't read in your memo why you brought it forward in this manner, except for you said that you thought that the council should be the venue for the discussion. But I didn't read in your memo why this wasn't the contract that you wanted to bring forward. Okay.
 Absolutely. And in going back and looking at these discussions on restructuring of funds across both contracts, it's not new. We actually had some pretty robust discussions in 2018 over that on both sides. And one of the reasons for the main FTE revision out of the Startup Junkie Consulting Contract came from those discussions.
 And the revision level this time is just as high on the ED consulting contract as it was. But I included it for a reason. Traditionally, we do that and we bring it at an agenda session. I wanted to be transparent with the council and the public about my initial recommendation, because one of the things that's really absorbed me over the past 12 months, or 10 months, excuse me, has been the economic impact from the pandemic. And
 And knowing that they, even when the vaccine gets distributed, there are still going to be economic and social stressors at play. And uncertainty and unknown has really kind of been our world. And so we look at that. I'm not going to die on that hill. In regards to that, I didn't die on it in 2018. But when you do that, and it's always important to me on both contracts to challenge and to assess. I feel it's part of my job to manage and have oversight of these contracts.
 But I had somebody across the table working with me that was very open to revisions. And I was able to get revisions. And I think as Zane put it out really well, the changes that are of a very significant level to get it to a point that I didn't know that we could. But I was very happy to have somebody across the table that was so open to that.
 And so I do that to be transparent, just like in 2018, we actually presented multiple iterations to the city council at an agenda session on both contracts. It's hard for me to square you saying that they're very open to revisions, but then they refuse to put in a full-time equivalent in the contract. They refuse to work with you on your $100,000 target. I don't know. I just have more questions and...
 I have not requested an FTE dedication out of this contract. Well, I guess I'm like, why not? It's $180,000 a year contract. That's more than the startup junkie contract. Like, why wouldn't we? I don't, I guess I'm not an expert here. Maybe I'm not smart enough to figure it out.
 if I might, in response to Councilman Petty. Economic development is a team sport and involves startup junkie, involves a chamber, involves a city and lots of other folks.
 and our agents with an FTE we think you're shorting the city on the contract for what you get for services so uh one of the conversations earlier in the conversation about a business uh that's trying to locate here uh we facilitated getting a call from the governor to that business to suggest to them that this was the very place they should be that's an important and impactful sort of event that occurs and we don't take what we do with our contract and
 pigeonhole it or put it in a silo as just one thing. So a lot of our work is with startup businesses and startup junkies. A lot of our work is with existing businesses, expanding businesses. A lot of our work will be tested, will be identified as to the kinds of business we want to recruit, recognizing health care as a big part of that. So in this instance, we believe on the services that we provide, which
 which does not just mean the services of Zane Chennault. It means my services and Zane's services, other people's services on our team about various things that are happening. We provide more than one FTE and I think we should. And based on what we believe to be the market value of the services we provide, we think that's a fair market value. We have not increased that contract price
 over the last three years, I believe. And the reason for that is we try to be sensitive to the things that happen in our city and the changes that are coming in our city. But clearly, economic development is a pink board. Without all the players, I think it's difficult for us
 Fayetteville to me is highest profile for us besides DEI and workforce and those issues alone. It is making sure the existing businesses in our community, there are some or several on that report, just not identified by name. Got funding at the state level, not funding from y'all, not funding from the city budget, funding from the state level to help them expand, hire more employees,
 And then you'll came through with a sales tax back and sales tax program. But that's a part of what we do. And that's a little different than helping someone start a business idea that's helping retain a business and helping it grow. We also then look for resources at the federal level, like the Economic Development Administration, which provided a grant, which is one of the largest Arkansas has ever gotten to create more appropriate programs
 land or economic development and wasn't mentioned in our talk about our robotics program we've just required two more robotics two more robots to add a second and third layer of certification so this conversation to us is the one that's ongoing and as Devin said there's no question
 We're trying to make certain whatever Devon and the mayor and you all say to us, you want to get done, we do it just as you have requested or as nearly possible, perfectly as you have requested, or in concert and cohort with whether it's startup junkies, small business technology group, the university, the state, AEBC.
 economic development administration, those are the folks that are part of this team and this team effort. And for us, we weren't trying to be headstrong and we were not trying to be difficult. We're trying to be anything but that. But we're also trying to say what we're providing in services is different. And it takes more time. It takes more people and it takes more effort.
 Thank you. I guess, frankly, I'm still not sold. Is the robotics program funded by this contract? It is not. So it's not actually, with respect, it's not actually relevant to the contract discussion. And I think this has been something that comes up over and over again in these chamber presentations, and we've mentioned it publicly, so this will come as no surprise. There's a
 a legitimate complaint that we get presented numbers and outcomes that have nothing to do with the contract that are just things that get counted. And we've brought it up before and we've been through this thing where we revise the presentations in the contract over and over again. And at some point,
 respectfully to everyone involved, I just have to ask in my agency to the members of the public, the citizens of Fayetteville, how many times are we gonna revise something for the exact same purpose before we admit to ourselves that we aren't going to achieve what we want to achieve? I mean, we're chasing our own tails on this. Let's talk about funding for AEDC from AEDC. Devin, those are competitive grant pools, right?
 They are competitive grant pools. I want to ask Devin, Steve. I want to ask Devin. Absolutely, Councilmember. And do you mind, before I answer that question, if I just do a brief comment on your previous? I have been studying these contracts, and the Robotics Training Center actually is in the contract under the Work and Development section.
 as is the Fab Lab. And so if you look at that workforce section, it is in the contract. And so, Steve, I just wanted to make sure that we said that. How come someone so close to the contract didn't know that? Anyway, please go on, Devin, with the other question. In regards to how AEDC pool funding works and in regards to looking at if it's competitive, you know, Maya General, and I do defer to,
 the experts who have worked on that a lot longer than I have in regards to Arkansas Economic Development Commission projects. I read the rule book when it gets updated, and that's about it. And I lean heavily on our colleagues at the chamber for information on that. So what I believe, and Steve or anybody else, please feel to correct me if I do misspeak.
 And we do think they are competitive because there are certain allotments that go into the budget on what they can and cannot do, whether it be quick action closing fund. But I don't think there's pools on things like sales tax backs. And I don't think there's pools. So I don't think it's a yes or no, if it is or it isn't. I think it depends on the program. But in regards to how those programs operate fully, I would defer to the ones who work on those specifically.
 Devin, last week on the phone, you told me that you thought our reception of a road grant from AEDC had impaired our ability to get another grant from AEDC during the same funding cycle. Would you talk a little bit more about that? EDA explicitly. So with the EDA grant, when we look at that, that Commerce Park Road has been a discussion point for a very long time. Very long.
 And in the past, when we looked at the assessment of that, I didn't support it professionally at $2 million. I supported it at $500,000. And so when the grant was secured, when I talk about the impacts that these grants have, and this isn't just EDA. This could be HUD. This could be anything else. It could be CARES Act funding.
 There are these different buckets, and this is a complicated topic with a federal entity. Under general capital improvement funds, you look at, we get an ADA grant, I can't go back to that pool and knock on that door. They just wrote a $2 million check.
 But what I can do and what I am doing in my pursuit specifically with another project that I can't discuss at this point in time is going after EDA innovation funds via the CARES Act. And so when we get these big grants and we look at that, yes, it makes it where we can't go back and ask for that. That's natural. They can't invest all their money in Washington-Benton County. They've got to spread that out across the entire northwest Arkansas district.
 And so I don't think it necessarily impaired my ability to pursue that as it would anybody else in the city to go after EDA capital improvement funds. And so it's still the largest grant in Arkansas history. And it's a success of this contract, too. It was under the impression you thought we could be a little bit more strategic whenever you learned that there was another opportunity. Oh, I always will.
 I got to wonder why we're funding a flat fab lab out of this contract when we just paid for a library that has the same facility at a order of magnitude, better equipment, better programming, better availability. It just seems like we're not being very critical. And it seems like we kind of owe it. I mean, the answer that we can't put a,
 FTE metrics measures in this contract because more than one person works on it to me is kind of word salad. I mean, does anybody here think startup junkie only has one person working for us because they put a commitment to one FTE in the contract? Just trying to go along with what we've been doing because we didn't want to have the hard conversation about whether or not what we've been paying for is worth it.
 If I might, Councilman Petty and members of council, I would tell you the equipment at the library versus the equipment that's in the Fab Lab are not identical. You cannot get the same training. You cannot learn the same skills. You can learn similar skills. As far as I know at this point at the library, there's no dedicated personnel in that area to get certifications.
 And as to the issue of workforce development, the creation of about 225 people in the workforce
 people in northwest Arkansas who are skilled robotics technicians and a world that's moving through robotics every, not day, every hour, has a direct impact on recruitment and attraction of talent and business and a direct impact on existing businesses and their ability to get a trained workforce to do the things they're now doing.
 I would also, Mayer if it's okay, like to comment on something too that I think is important because I am a very, with numbers especially, when I look at these various items.
 And so one of the items too, why, you know, it's never crossed my mind to add an FTE commitment. And it goes back to, these are two very different things, especially this new version. And so when we look at, and when I place valuation on items, and I would not send a contract to you if I wasn't comfortable and I could defend it.
 It's very different here because, yes, the ABC and you look at you have these really fast hits of time where very quick and tactical responses have to be done. And they come up. And what's absolutely incredible right now is, in my opinion,
 I look back and we're not talking about the past specifically, but when I first started here, I remember joking that this is never going to be possible again because it was Disneyland for an economic developer, the amount of projects that were going on. And it's approaching that level again when you look at Zane's active project list. And so to me, with these various services, what I add value in is.
 In regards to the Fab Lab statement, the language in the contract actually that is retained from the original contract is supporting the community by having those entities there. It doesn't call for specificity necessarily. And so in regards to the cost breakdown, I did look at that. I can be honest and candid with the council. My highest valuation for this contract is the work with ADC.
 But it would be quickly followed by workforce development. And those are the two pillars that we've maintained consistency on that I really think and believe. And my professional recommendation is they excel at those. Mr. Howland, let's just OK, you've got a budget, right?
 You see the value in this contract, right? I hear you saying that. And you're the professional for the city that helps coordinate activity within our city to be certain that we have a good return on our investment. And I appreciate that. And so if I'm hearing you correctly, you do place value on this and you can support it. So I appreciate you for that too. Um,
 I just wanted to say that because it's your budget in a way that we're having to spend on services. You're the director, the head of that department, that division. And so you have to spend it wisely or you'll be accountable, right? Council Member Kenyon, that is a great point. And one of the slides I showed in the agenda session, I wanted to talk about our budget because I frame it up. Fayetteville invests more in economic development than any other municipality in the region.
 Our grand total investment, just for specificity, but I really, you know, we can go off on do bond projects have economic value? Yes, every question does. Do these other items, is what Yolanda's division doing, have economic value?
 Yes. Mary McGettrick and long range planning. Yes. And so development services as a whole. Our budget is making up five hundred and ninety six. We'll call it a thousand dollars. And so with that, you know, about 40 percent of staff costs spent about four percent on travel, training, promotion, 30 chamber, 25 startup junkie. I would not send a contract to council at evaluation if it wasn't at a point that I could support.
 At the same time, though, one of the things that, and I did this in 2018, and we talked about it is, I'm open about the fact that I look. And so when I look at right now with my budget decision, the core pillars of this contract, above all, that I wanted to bring was workforce development and ADC.
 And I'm operating under the purview of an RFP and a contract by it. And there's a key sentence in that contract that in order to make an amendment, all three parties have to agree. And so in regards to that, we've got to a point where I was able to agree. There was an agreement on the other side, and that's okay. Good things come out of dissent. Good things come out of disagreement. I think back to the entertainment district and how many businesses –
 were very unhappy with me when we started that direction and how popular it is now. So it's not, I don't walk away from that. When you have somebody sitting across the table, just my professional ethos, you work with them. And that's the basis of why this is here. Thank you. Mayor Jordan, I would like to echo what Mark said earlier.
 Devin, I think that I've read the information that you provided and Steve, thank you so much for chiming in this evening and Zane, thank you for the great presentation. I feel like that all of the bases are being covered. And again, Devin, this is what you do for the city. And I believe that when I'm looking at this,
 I believe that no one's left behind. I really do. And I think that both you and the Chamber of Commerce are working, are collaborating, and you are making sure that every perspective is represented. And even when Zane pointed out, you know, for making sure that there is a specific focus with minority groups,
 I look at that as being equitable. So thank you guys for your presentation and working together, collaborating to move Fayetteville forward. County Member Jones, I'd like to just echo on your comments, if that's okay, Mayor. One of the items that, you know, this discussion that I think is critically important is, you know, Fayetteville as a government, one of the things that I've admired in my time working here is
 And I may be wrong in this statement, but I've built a lot of plans for cities in my past. I've worked with. We plan our work and we work our plan. This is a plan-based city. Plans guide zoning decisions. Fayetteville first plan is over. We are doing an audit. And it's over. It's perfectly timed with this massive impact that we've had.
 And so these conversations about, you know, new services is what we're doing right now. The best thing for two years, those questions are impossible to answer in the face of the uncertainty that we've had and with the uncertainty ahead. And that's at the top of my mind. And so I'll be back soon to talk about that. But that's really become evidently clear.
 as we think about what recovery looks like. And I'm jealous of some of the other communities that we've worked with. And Council Member Petty connected us in the days after the pandemic with this network of we're the smallest city by the factor of a million in this group, that they're moving forward with these recovery initiatives. And it really beckons the question, what new services, where do we go?
 And my heart, I mentioned this in the budget, I mentioned this in my presentation, is focusing on home right now. Home's hurting bad. Home's hurting really bad. And it is at challenges that we've never faced. And I look back on my career right now, this is our modern day version of the depression that has hit us. And so while right now those views may change in the future.
 on exactly what we need, but we do that together as a community. That's always been the principle. And so that's kind of where my head is. Councilmember Bunch, you're muted. I'm just talking. I had it unmuted and then I muted it. Sorry, I'm going the other way around. You know, we as a city have had a long standing relationship with the chamber. And, you know, I think...
 That if if anyone, you know, if we're thinking that maybe we're, you know, if we'd had any ideas that we weren't getting what we were paying for. I think the fact that Devin was able to work with them and come up with, you know, a resolution there. I think, you know, it kind of alleviates any fears I have with that.
 And when I look at what they provide versus what Startup Junkie provides, and they're two different things, I feel comfortable going forward with this contract based on what, you know, Devin's recommendation. If we were not getting what we thought we should get, I mean, we are the stewards of the contract.
 the taxpayer dollars. And, you know, the, the mayor has a dollar bill that he sets in front of him when he goes to the council meeting and it means the buck stops here. So, you know, if we aren't getting what we think we should be getting, I would assume that we can always go back and revisit the contract. Um, also I think there's a, uh, you know, if, if for some reason,
 You know, if it just does not work out, which I cannot imagine that it won't work out. There is, is there a 30-day clause in here in this contract, Devin? Correct. Section 9 of the item pre-exhibit. This contract can be canceled by either party with 30-day notice. So, yes.
 With that in mind, I feel like, you know, I feel like we've expressed what we would like to get from the chamber. They've come up with what they're going to offer us and we're at a good point and we're in agreement there. I think we're covered on this. So, you know, I'm in support of continuing this contract. Okay.
 When we all get done with everything, I still have to take some public comment here. What else might we have for questions for the staff or the Chamber? I'm sorry. It's where someone else is going to sit. Mayor Jordan, I would just like to add that again. I look forward to seeing what Devin and the Chamber will
 what they are going to do as it relates to moving Fayetteville forward. I see that they are intentional and deliberate on making sure that everyone has an equitable opportunity. So guys, I can't say that enough. Thank you so very much. I've seen the plan. I've talked with Devon. And again, I think it's going to, I think it's an amazing collaboration.
 Thank you, Council Member Jones. If I may, Mayor, Council Member Bunch, you mentioned that we might need to change that. And I apologize for trying to cram a 20 minute presentation into 10 minutes. That's all right. My job is to keep you on time. The last comment of the last slide and I'll just read it to you because I think it speaks to what was said just a few minutes ago.
 The chamber understands and acknowledges that changes may be needed for what the city has to do, especially with the great deal of uncertainty that we face over the next 18 to 24 months. Our commitment is to remain client-focused. That's our mantra in servicing this contract. If we need to make changes, as David mentioned many times, I'll sit right across the table, and we'll work together to come up with an equitable solution for all involved.
 That's our commitment, and that's not just mine. I know that's a commitment from Steve, and I know that's a commitment from every employee in the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much. I would expect, if we're in a partnership with the Chamber, I would expect nothing less than that from you guys. And I think you would be – I think whatever we need to, we can probably get worked out. Thank you. Okay. Well, if there's not anything else, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, here we are back again. So this is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? I have another one. Go ahead. I'm sorry. We're going to say something, Sonia. I have a comment. Sure. All right. So thanks, Zane and Steve, for coming to get us updated on what's been going on and kind of where you are with things.
 I want to point out a real specific thing that Zane brought up that has been definitely a concern of mine. He mentioned reaching out specifically to our LGBTQ community. And this has been a big concern for me with the contract.
 because it's a branding perception challenge. So I don't know that you necessarily need to think about how you're going to answer this now, but it's a real thing. This really, you know, the civil rights ordinance and your stance on that civil rights ordinance is not forgotten. Now, I know that we change and we transform, and I would love to hear a serious commitment from,
 to our LGBTQ community and how you're going to rebrand, reconnect, rebuild these relationships that were so severed
 And, and, and I, and I, I do want transformation and I do want that reconnection. And I absolutely want it from our chamber. Our chamber should be leading diversity and inclusion and, you know, all of, all the resources that we have in that, that time, that point in time is really hurtful time for me. And so I'm glad to hear that this is happening.
 the direction you plan to move, but there is a perception challenge there. So I hope that you're actively, really actively pursuing that. I don't know how you're doing it, but that's a big concern for me and taking political stances to make barriers with people is hopefully not something that we can do in the future. And I will challenge the contract
 if that's something that we need to bring back up. So that's my honest hesitation on this contract. I just want you to know that I want to give you a chance to move forward, but that is definitely on my mind as I, as I move forward and, you know, to go see the contract go from a hundred back to, you know, now where are we at 360 for two years? And I did the math there's,
 You know, and I understand all the impacts that you have. I'm so excited about the educational opportunities that you guys have added with the robotics. Very excited. Want to see that continue and expand. But that just makes me hesitate a lot now that I, you know, can look over this contract. So you don't necessarily have to answer how you're going to do all of that in one fell spoo, but yeah.
 Maybe a short answer would be helpful. The short answer is to remind everyone that when there was a second civil rights ordinance offered, the chamber joined wholeheartedly in getting that passed. Secondly, the chamber is now into its eighth year of the Hispanic Heritage Festival for Latinx Population, the only organization doing that in northwest Arkansas.
 The Chamber is a regular supporter of Black History Month with banners and contributions and those things, participation in events. The Chamber was hanging off of its balcony on the square, rainbow flags, and would have marched in the parade. There wasn't a parade because of the pandemic. So we recognize that we have a ways to go to get people to have confidence and have
 comfort, two words, both very important, in the things that we're doing. But we recognize that we live in a world that everyone else lives in.
 And if there is not a commitment to diversity and equity and inclusion, there will not be a life thereafter. And so for us, in our recruitment of talent and our recruitment of companies, we make that, as Zane said, a focal point of those conversations. And we make that an important part of that conversation so that people understand that the way Fayetteville will thrive and Northwest Arkansas will thrive.
 global drive is if it becomes more diverse, not less diverse, more diverse, and be a welcoming community with welcoming organizations for everybody. And so I do take your comments straight to heart. Know how sincere they are. I appreciate you being so forthright about them. And we will work on that. And you'll see those actions, but we're doing lots of things other than just hanging out
 hanging banners off the building or marching in parades. We're literally making that a part of contracts and making that a part of the kinds of companies we want to recruit and attract and indicate to our members as well as to our community that that diversity and that equity and that inclusion is essential to our success.
 If I may, just to kind of add to that, you know, and Steve mentioned that, you know, the parade, we were going to march in that parade. More than just marching that parade, it's easy to be one person among 16 to 20,000.
 our chamber logo truck was going to be in that parade. So we had already worked that out. There are a number of things that we were planning this last year that COVID interrupted. We will re-institute those plans for the coming year. So it will absolutely be an integral part of what we do as a chamber. And I can tell you when Steve and I talked about me taking this position,
 A full third of our conversation centered around diversity, equity, inclusion. That was on his mind and that was on my mind. So that absolutely. And I'm sincerely sorry that anyone and Council Member Guterres, I'm sorry that you feel that way. I really am. We will work to make sure that you feel like you are getting the representation that you deserve, as does everybody else.
 regardless of race, religion, identity, heritage, gender, age, etc. We'll make sure you know, not just feel, but that you know. You can measure, you can identify, you can relate to. I appreciate it and I will follow up with you guys and Devin to help to see that in action form. So I appreciate it. I would like to share
 Real quickly, Devin, I introduced him to a young man, BK Simmons. And BK has an extensive background with minority business development. And so I'm sure Devin would mind sharing some information about his relationship with BK. And I think that it's going to be very, very beneficial to all of us.
 We recognize that opportunities may not have all been present, but we are anticipating and looking forward to a new day. And that is why I was really excited about making the connection between BK and Devin. And Devin, if you don't mind just sharing with us a little bit about BK and what that relationship could look like. Number one challenge.
 That conversation and that connection from Councilmember Jones actually predates his time as city council member. As you all know, one of the items that we were working on and getting ready to deliver in April of last year was our workforce development initiative. It is, if you've sat down and looked at our action items, it is a significant turn of the wheel. It is where I want to go, and that effort is still there. And when we think about the groups that reached out that wanted to engage, the African American Advisory Council was one of those.
 We presented that item and that was a meeting that's really driving me and pushing us forward. When we talk about focusing on home and we talk about the social stressors, that the light that's been shed on a lot of things from 2020, whether that be with racism, whether that be with showing just how fragile our economic system is with people working with jobs below a living wage,
 To really move the needle on that, I know we can, and that's going to take a great deal of intentionality. That's going to take a quote from former Councilmember Smith, you're finding where your principal is. And I visioned that document wasn't done in vain. It's going to be, you know, I think a centerpiece of the next effort that we go. And, you know, the conversations with the individual that Councilmember Jones is referencing was actually behind
 The initial pilot of Venture Noir out of the Bentville Chamber of Commerce, that was a regional effort and it was successful. It, too, was impacted by the pandemic. And there's good work being done now. And I don't know if it's my place to talk about all of that. There's great work being done because that's an area that for me as a professional, I've realized I need to do a lot of listening, not a lot of talking.
 And so taking that same vein, I do see a great deal of opportunity of working very closely with people that this has been, you know, their life's mission. And recognizing that I don't have all the answers for some of these things, specifically when we talk about equitable economic development. And I'm talking about true intentional change, not just checking the box. And that's where my hope is. And I hope that, you know, that introduction with BK leads to many more.
 And there's so many others that I need to do listening to, that we as a city need to do listening to. And there's great examples and best practices. And the relationships with the communities that we look to can help guide some of those. And so I'm really looking forward to that. I'm ready to get to work on that. But I think that's just as essential part of recovery from not just the pandemic, but 2020, than anything else. Thank you, Council Member Jones.
 Okay, well, this is a resolution. I have another comment, Mayor. Sure. I wanted to take one time to address something maybe some people are thinking. Obviously, I'm not going to support this and I expect I'm going to be in the extreme minority. And I guess for me, what's hard to reconcile are all the private comments that have been made to me in the face of the pandemic by local businesses. Right.
 and the reports that I get about what they say to one another on the phone calls after the chamber representatives click off, and the stark difference that this presentation has taken compared to the phone calls that I've had with city staff over the past month. I can't reconcile those things in my head. Maybe that's just one of my curses.
 but I can't do it. And I know that there are some people probably thinking that I would only oppose this for political reasons because anybody who's been in politics for a while, especially going back to things like the anti-discrimination ordinance knows that I've probably been the most outspoken critic of the chamber on the council. And I expect some people at the chamber take that personally, although it's not intended that way. I just feel zealous about,
 obligation to maintain my agency on behalf of the citizens. What I actually think is that this is a political proposal. I was there when the first one got drafted in 2009 and pulled together. And the history before that was that the chamber and the city were on the rocks because Mayor Dan Cootey had pulled the original chamber contract and set up a new independent organization called the
 What was it? I don't remember what it was. The Fayetteville Independent Business Association or some name like that. And back then, the justification was that the city wasn't able to
 to keep any trade secrets on behalf of anyone who inquired. And it turns out that's not true. We're able to do all of those things. We're able to keep things from being FOIAed if they're trade secrets or they are about a business's competitive advantage. None of those reasons exist anymore. Right.
 And when we first did the contract in 2009, we didn't really even have deliverables. You know, we just did it because we were going to restore this contract. And it seemed to bring some political spheres together. And we've seen this contract change over and over again. It changed when we did the Fayetteville First Economic Development Plan, which is pretty much just a boilerplate cut and paste plan from Bentonville. But we never had one before.
 And it was what gave us what we needed, the justification we needed and the confidence we need on the council to create the department and create the very first staff position, which is Devin's position. I remember it really clearly because I led that. I proposed funding that and selecting someone to do that work. And then afterwards, I tried to support very strongly creating that department.
 And it wasn't a unanimous thing. It wasn't like everybody was in consensus about it. In fact, there were people on the council who were really skeptical that we should change our relationship with the chamber at all. And then when we did the first major contract revisions where we inserted deliverables, there were people who were skeptical that we needed to do much with the deliverables at all, that we needed to change the relationship. And when we decided to pull business recruitment out of it,
 and create another position under Devin and his department. There were people that were skeptical that we needed to change our relationship with the chamber again at all. And I feel like we're in that same situation once more, where because of our friendships, because of our relationships, and because of the political power that comes with being aligned with the Chamber of Commerce, we're afraid to criticize this in public. But I've heard many criticisms in private.
 We're not doing right by the public whenever we keep all that to ourselves. Okay what we have we have a resolution before the council so what's the wishes of the council? I move we adopt the resolution if we haven't said that yet. We haven't. Okay I move we adopt the resolution. I second it. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. All right if there's nothing else Karen would you please call the roll. Ernstburg? Yes.
 Gutierrez? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go on to number seven. All right.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 20-011 for property located at 345 South Combs Avenue to vacate a portion of Street Right-of-Way. Kitt. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of Street Right-of-Way is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval
 is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with Development Services. This right away is located in South Fayetteville towards the northeast extents of the Walker Park neighborhood.
 As you can see on the aerial here, it's pretty narrow as most pieces of right-of-way are, 10 feet wide by about 160 feet long. It extends northwest from the intersection of Combs and 4th Street to its dead end at the western edge of the applicant's property. The applicant's request is to vacate it in order to develop the property.
 You can see exactly what it looks like here and also tell that the right-of-way doesn't actually extend all the way to Washington to the northwest, where it terminates at the property owner's western boundary is where it ends. There's no further right-of-way between it and Washington. The right-of-way was platted in 1888. At the time, it did make a little bit more coherent since why it was there based on the lots you can see in the Combs Edition plat at the time.
 It was, however, never built. And as you can see here from some aerial imagery in about half century increments, the street was never, again, the street was never built. Ultimately, Fourth Street was built, basically making this section of right-of-way redundant. Additionally, in the time since it was planted, FEMA did designate the Spout Spring Branch as having floodplain associated with it.
 So if the right away were to extend all the way to Washington Avenue, it would have to contend with the fact that the stream is there and all the associated development requirements with using the right away or for some sort of connectivity. That said, staff does not see any issues with the request. All the affected franchise utilities have agreed to it and
 and signed off. With this in mind, staff again is supporting the request and the planning commission concurred. They placed the item on their consent agenda and forwarded it on the city council. I'm available for questions and Julia Sampson is the applicant here tonight to take any questions you may have for her. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? I don't have a speech prepared, but I'm
 i'm prepared to answer any questions you may have i've owned this piece of property for a very long time and i'm finally ready to build a small energy efficient home on this land okay uh all right what uh what questions do we have from the council either to the applicant or the staff okay all right well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak
 You have a five minute duration broken in segments of two and three minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public and council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise your hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is an ordinance.
 It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion do we have or actions or whatever you all want to do? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Tara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Harris?
 Brogdon? Yes. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 20-011 for a property located at 345 South Combs Avenue to vacate a portion of a street right of way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Chair, you're muted.
 Sorry, thank you. I'm trying to improvise. I made my own standing desk with my two municipal league books. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 In order to approve the AC20-011 for property located at 345 South Combs Avenue to vacate a portion of street right of way. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council?
 I had received, Mayor, some feedback from via email to hold on to this just a little bit while the neighbors were deciding and figuring out what all they wanted to do with combs. Now they, you know, I just wanted to not rush it is the main thing why I voted no, not.
 just to kind of slow it down. So I was wondering if we could hold it here. Well, you can table. I have to have a motion to table. And you can make a motion to table, Sonja, if you'd like to do that. Okay, I'd like to move we table this to allow for a little bit more time. I second it. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table. What, two weeks, you think, Sonja? Sounds good. Okay, all right. We have a motion and a second to table for,
 Two weeks. Please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Hang on, I was taking a few notes here, y'all.
 Okay, number eight, an ordinary street zone that properties is driving his own petition RZN 20-025 located 318 South Combs Avenue for approximately 0.20 acres from NC neighborhood conservation to DG downtown general.
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from nc neighborhood conservation to dg downtown general section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in section one okay john
 Thank you, Mayor. Let me get my presentation pulled up here. All right. This property is also in South Fayetteville. Unusually, it's very close to the previous item. It's just to the north, closer to Huntsville Road, one lot shy of Combs Avenue's intersection with Huntsville.
 Although it fronts Combs, the property is a through lot, meaning it has access to two streets, both Willow to the east and Combs to the west. It is currently developed with a single family home that was built, according to Washington County, in 1915. This property and the large area were all zoned RMF 24, residential multifamily 24, until 1915.
 2008, when the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan was adopted. This property and the rest of the Walker Park neighborhood all had new zoning designations applied with that plan's adoption. This particular property was zoned to NC, Neighborhood Conservation.
 To the northwest and northeast of this property, those lots were rezoned to DG, downtown general, to the southwest and southeast. Those properties also received an NC neighborhood conservation designation. So as you can see on the zoning map, it's kind of a transitional piece of property between areas where it was envisioned for different types of development, the Walker Park plan
 The request before the council tonight is to rezone it from NC neighborhood conservation to DG downtown general. In evaluating the proposal, staff found it to be consistent with the city's long range plans and even elements of the Walker Park plan that encourage some non-residential uses and attached residential uses at certain locations.
 as a residential neighborhood area designation on the future land use map, but it's encouraged to have the full spectrum of residential development potential and also some non-residential uses where appropriate. While this request may be inappropriate if it was just a standalone DG request in the middle of the block,
 staff certainly took into consideration the fact that this would make a coherent and contiguous piece of DG zone land all the way to Huntsville Road, which is arguably or arguably a connecting corridor where we'd like to see some of our services. Similarly, the property and its proximity to many services and amenities and areas support the case for rezoning it to DG.
 This includes access to both transit providers, ORT and Razorback, proximity to several parks, the Yvonne Richardson Center, and a heightened level of street connectivity that you see in a lot of our older parts of Fayetteville. Some other issues that were at play on the property included traffic.
 the development potential versus development codes. Again, the fact that it's a through lot and public comment that staff has heard, and I believe that some of the council members have heard as well. When it comes to development potential versus development code, that's certainly something staff considers when evaluating requests like this. The size of this property at about a fifth of an acre is extremely limiting on its development potential
 which makes the DG zoning district somewhat deceptive in its allowances for things like five-story building. Even if you took this property in conjunction with the one between it and Huntsville Road, that still creates a property of about half an acre, which again, if it were developed under our development code, as it would have to be, the other requirements in there, including for parking and potentially drainage and tree preservation, would be
 limit the ability of any development to get more intense than staff feels is incompatible. Additionally, as I noted earlier, this property is a three lot, has access to combs and willow. We feel that this is a unique situation that can help disperse some of the potential traffic to or from the property and alleviate some concerns that we've heard from the public. And on that note, we have heard from nearby residents that have expressed opposition to the request.
 The main concerns were that this represented spot zoning would negatively affect the neighborhood's character and increase traffic to the area. One that did want to go on the record under her name, Miss Virginia Chase in particular, asked that I share her name since she's likely unable to attend the meeting. She lives to the west, southwest of this site and is also opposed to it. We also have received some comments.
 more ambivalent public comment, people simply asking about what's happening, but they didn't ultimately provide any statements of support or opposition. So on the balance of issues, staff is in favor of the request and a portion of the planning commission concurred forwarding the item six to two to the city council
 of the commissioners that did disagree. One did specifically go on the record to say that they weren't disagreeing because they felt this is spot zoning. They were specific about that, but did have concerns about the compatibility that could result from some of the development allowances of the DG zoning district.
 As a closing note, and just to get it on the record as well, I do realize that the property owner has a similar name to mine. It's also Kurth, but with a K. I do want to note that there is absolutely no relation between me and them. I do not have a direct or even tangential interest in the proposal. So I do want to say that. And I'm available for questions. And Richie Lamb is present as the applicant. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes.
 Yes, Mayor. I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes. Good evening Mayor and Council. Thank you all for your time and consideration of this application tonight. I want to share with you that the motivation for this request follows a desire to create a place which has more of the things that people need every day. So not just houses,
 but a variety of housing types and a mix of uses which are adaptable for change over time. The downtown general district allows for just this, yet it still provides for compatibility with the surrounding mix of uses within the neighborhood. And then also this district is already in place.
 both the neighboring property and across the street. I find that the staff report covers any additional comments that I would make and in the essence of time tonight I'll just second their findings and ask that you support the recommendation for approval. I'll remain here on the line to address any questions that you have.
 Okay. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the council? I don't have a question, Mayor, but I just want to clarify. I was meaning to hold this one and not the last one, so I want to apologize to the mayor and to this council and everyone. I'm getting tired, so I just want to put that out there. I'm a little bit exhausted, but...
 So I just want to say that now that I'm planning to hold on to this one. I'm trying to keep it at the few readings as possible. Thanks. Okay.
 I will point out at the right time if you really want to go back and change that you can do a motion to reconsider your motion to table and then you'd be able to go ahead and vote on that tonight. That would be awesome. Should I just go ahead and do that after this maybe just to go ahead? Let me get my bearings here, Sonia. Let me take some public comment and then when we bring it back, if you want to, you can go back and reconsider the process.
 the previous vote because I'm certainly we've certainly done that before. So maybe give me a cue when you're ready for me to do that. Oh I'll cue you. I got it. Thank you so sorry. Is there any other questions from the council for the staff or the applicant? Okay let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. It's in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to address us on this from the public?
 Nobody? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now, Sonny, it would be the time for you to reconsider C7, which is an ordinance to approve Vacation 20-011, property located at 345 South Combs Avenue, to vacate a portion of the street right away. And you'd be reconsidering your motion to table? Yes. I'd like to make a motion to reconsider my motion to table. I second it.
 okay we have a motion in a second to reconsider the tabling of item number seven okay everybody got that and i'm sure you do um so carol would you please call the roll earthsburg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggins yes
 Yes. Yes. Okay, now we're right back where we started. Yeah, I think we got Ariana. Yeah, we're ready to vote. Is there any final comments from the council? Okay, seeing none, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes, Turk. Yes. Okie dokie. Now we're back to number 8 and I've just had public comment. We're back to the city council. What discussion do we have from the council? Sonia? I believe you said you wanted to hold it right here. Is that correct?
 Yes, and would it be appropriate for me to share some comment that I got now or afterward? Your council members, you can do pretty much anything you want to. Share away. Saying that to me. Okay. Okay.
 So I would like to read a little bit that I got today. I think some people did receive it, but just in case our person isn't available, I did hear from a Miss, let's see, her name is Mary Worthy. And she lives next door and she says she would like to have it remain as neighborhood conservation. She lives next door.
 For 30 years, she's lived at 322 South Combs.
 And she feels that building a multi-level non-residential or partial residential facility next door will drastically alter her quality of life and sanctity of her neighborhood. Many of the neighbors agree with her. This is a quiet residential neighborhood and she feels it should remain as such. And she implores you to vote against the rezoning of 318 Combs, Ms. Mary E Worthy. Do you have anybody else?
 All right. So you want to hold it right here. Is there any objections to holding it on this reading from the council? Okay. We'll just hold it right here then for two weeks. Well, we'll just leave it on this reading for two weeks. Now I'm getting tired. All right. Number nine, an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding
 and approve i'm sorry council do you have any discussion on that i'm zipping along here okay number nine an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve the contract with t2 systems canada incorporated through december 31st 2021.
 and automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of software and services required from the city's parking pay stations in the amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Whereas the city has purchased parking pay stations and related services, including payment processing reporting, software, software maintenance from T2 Systems Canada, Inc.,
 formerly digital payment technologies, for each of its parking pay stations since 2009. And whereas T2 is the sole source provider of these proprietary services, as well as the pay station equipment, and the software provided by T2 is the only software that will work with the city's existing equipment. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 at the city council of the city of fabo arkansas here by fines the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract with t2 systems canada inc through december 31st 2021 with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of the parking pay station services in the amount of 100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes
 Okay. Justin. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Justin Clay, parking manager for the city. This is an amendment to continue our existing agreement for software services that support the 32 parking pay stations located primarily throughout the Dixon Street Entertainment Parking District.
 This is a service that's been in place since these pay stations were installed over 10 years ago. Some of the services include payment monitoring, reporting capabilities, software updates, maintenance alerts, credit card processing capabilities, and access to additional upgrades and functionalities.
 This is a proprietary service. It costs $100 per pay station per month. That's the same price that we've been paying all along for the same level of service. Our formal agreement for this service recently expired. It was last renewed in 2017. And this amendment simply renews our agreement for these operational services through the year 2024. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Justin on this from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment here. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five-minute duration, broken segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. So who would like to be the first one to address this from the public?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion would you like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Did I hear a second in there somewhere? Yes, second. Okay, we have most in the second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Grogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 in order to waive requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with t2 systems canada incorporated for this through december 31st 2021 with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of software and services required for the city's parking pay stations in the amount of 100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and finally Karen would you please call the roll. Hertzberg yes Gutierrez yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Banch yes Turk yes
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with T2 Systems Canada Incorporated through December 31st, 2021, with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms, for the continued use of software and services required for the city's parking pay stations, in the amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Is there any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 21-20 and authorized contract electrical resources incorporated in the amount of $87,920.84 for the installation of night light friendly LED lighting at the Grinders Skate Park and Walker Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $4,579.16. Ted. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor, Councilor. Walker Park has proved to be a valuable asset to the city, and rarely we not see some kids out there practicing, often with friends watching on. Adding this lighting will greatly increase the usability of the skateboard park. The lighting is LED, which will greatly improve or will help with keeping the energy use and life cycle costs down.
 this part of the of the park has great possibilities and this enhancement I think will work well with future enhancements that we might do in existing enhancements to really uh keep increasing the value of the park so uh I'd like to answer any questions if you have any. Okay what questions do we have for Ted on this? I have a comment rather than a question um
 I just want to say this is great. I think it's really forward thinking and to make our night skies less light pollution and especially down at Walker Park. So, Ted, I just want to commend you and the park staff for moving this forward to us. Thank you. Okay. What are the comments that we have from the council? Thank you, sir.
 all right let's have some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you is there anyone from public like to speak on this topic
 Nope. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? Very thrilled about all the work being done on this. Thank you for continuing to improve our awesome Walker Park with some lighting.
 I was just down there today and it's as busy as ever. It's very well used, probably the most used part of the park. So I'm excited to have it. And with that, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. No, no, this resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. I second. And we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 It's a job well done and this is going to be a great addition down at Walker Park. I agree with Sonia. That's kind of my, that's in my area of the south end of town as well. So, it's going to be a great improvement. So, with that, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Harkins?
 Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we might have tonight? Mayor, I have one announcement, and I'm really excited about it, as excited as I can be. So we announced today that we are opening an invitation to the public to help us with
 put a name to the face of our cultural arts corridor with experience fable we've been working on a naming and branding initiative and this will invite the public to participate in a naming naming process so the public can go for the entire month of february to fable cac.com and submit your idea for the name of what this new 50-acre space in downtown
 right off of Dixon Street should be named. And then if you participate with that, you could also sign up and join the people's panel to provide feedback on the name submissions. In March, the overall public will be able to vote on their favorite name option. And then we will announce the new name in mid-May. So I hope we can convince the general public to engage with us on this very fun exercise and name it what you will, thank you.
 Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.