I'd like to call the order of the city council meeting for February the 7th, 2023. Chair, would you please call the roll? Pernas? Yes. Fudge? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly finance report of Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 I'M VERY PLEASED TO PRESENT THE MONTH OF DECEMBER TO YOU. BUT WHAT I'M GOING TO DO IS I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT HOW WE FINISHED UP FOR THE ENTIRE FISCAL YEAR OF 2022. AND I'LL CONCENTRATE ON THE REVENUE SIDE. WE'RE STILL PROCESSING A FEW LATE EXPENDITURES AND HAVE TO DO A FEW ACCURALS SO I DON'T HAVE THE ENTIRE OPERATING RESULTS BUT I DO HAVE THE REVENUE SIDE THAT I'M GOING TO REPORT TO YOU TONIGHT. GENERAL FUND WAS VERY STRONG FOR THE YEAR.
 We were up 16 percent in combined sales tax. That's both the sales tax for the city penny and the sales tax that we received turned back from the county. Franchise fees were up in excess of 10 percent. Building fees were up 36 percent we finished the year with.
 Charges for services were up 10 percent. Charges for services encompass things such as parks programs, things of that nature. All in all, the grand total, we were up 11 percent for the year compared to budget. So we were up roughly $7 million total for the year.
 about what we had impacted and I expected yet next year on the revenue side. So our revenue estimates for 2023 look pretty solid at this point in time. We'll get a little better look next month when we'll see the first period of 2023 when we look at the December numbers. But right now we're looking pretty good. Street funds, street fund, the half cent sales tax, that's a half cent sales tax.
 by the that was instituted originally by the state. There was up 25 percent for the year was very strong. That's driven quite a bit by inflation and an inflationary increase, but it was up 25 percent to what I had predicted at the beginning of the year. MFT turn back was up roughly eight percent, and severance tax was up. All in all, we're up roughly 15 percent. That's in the street fund.
 So the street fund was very strong for the year. When we're looking at parking,
 We're starting to see some coming back down in the Dixon Street and downtown areas. We ended up the year 15% up compared to what my original revenue estimates were for this point in time. Remember, though, we also had a lot of additional expenditures as we're changing out the parking meters in Mark and modernizing the paid parking system.
 Parks Development Fund, that's HMR taxes. Again, they're coming back strong compared to last year. We're up 19 percent compared to what I had estimated for the budget for this year. That was strong this year. Water and sewer charges.
 still up in water and sewer. We're up roughly six percent in water and we're up three percent in sewer usage. So there we had a lot of late water usage this year. Trash and recycling, we remember we're down a lot long part of the year but we caught up we actually ended up one percent over what the estimate was for this year. So airport, when we look at airport,
 The airport revenues were up. They were pretty close to twice as much in total sales as they were last year. We earned quite a bit in the fuel sales at the airport. All of our major funds showed positive results, showed very strong results through the year of 2022 compared to what we had expected. It was a very good year for us. Again, as I will always caution you,
 we don't know what's coming 2023 might have a recession we might not but i feel we're in a very good position to accommodate and adjust either way things get better that's a good problem to have if things get worse i think we're prepared to adjust so that's where i am at this point in time and i'll be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have for paul on finance anything thank you paul
 All right. Next order of business we have is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of January 17th, 2023 City Council meeting benefits. Number two, a resolution to approve Amendment number one to the subrecipient agreement with Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority to modify the number and types of ambulances authorized to be purchased using American Rescue Plan Act funds.
 Number three, a resolution to approve policy AOP-124, on-call policy of the Federal Fire Department, administrative operating procedures, and to approve budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and approve purchase of turf tank robotic line painter from turf tank.
 in the amount of $49,936.25 plus taxes and freight charges used by the Parks and Recreation Department. Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Horner and Schifrin Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01, Selection Number 7, in the amount of not to exceed $84,000.
 $668.91 for engineering services associated with the Doc Tipton Lift Station Elimination Project and approved project tenancy in the amount of $10,000.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins Weir Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01, selection number 14 in the amount not to exceed $268,440 for engineering services associated with utility relocations for the Interstate 49 and Highway 62 interchange improvements project. Number seven, a resolution to authorize
 Contract with Landscape Structures Incorporated in the amount of $734,936.97 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing agreement for playground splash pad and related improvements at Gully Community Park to approve project tenancy in the amount of $80,000 and approve budget adjustments.
 number eight a resolution to authorize a contract quarter corporation dba polygon and in the amount of 595 thousand fifty nine dollars and ten cents pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing agreement for the construction of a billion shade structures and related improvements at gully community park and to prove project tendency any amount of thirty four thousand four hundred dollars
 Number nine, a resolution to approve tea hangar lease agreements in 2023 at current rental rate for all tea hangars rented at the federal airport.
 A resolution to authorize the application for a Federal Aviation Administration grant in the amount of $374,729 to fund 90% of the cost for a proposed airport master plan update at Drake Field Airport. And number 11, a resolution to amend the 2023 adopted budget by reappropriating
 $191,378,000 in bonded or ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations and grant funded items. We'll entertain a motion except the consent agenda is read. I make a motion we approve the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes we did yes okay thank you all very much moving to unfinished business number one
 A resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Leroy H. Schoffenberg, located at 2860 East Wyman Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. Mr. Bryant, Billy Bryant with Code Enforcement is not able to attend the meeting tonight, so I'll be sharing the latest on this particular piece of property. As a bit of a reminder, this is in East Fayetteville. It's just, as you see here, northeast of the intersection of Stonebridge Road and Wyman Road.
 For those not on the council or those not with a perfect memory, a little brief timeline of where we stand on this is a notice of violation was issued on the property in October of 2021. In December of that year, a building permit was submitted in response to concerns expressed by Building Safety about the structure's integrity. Although the building permit was ultimately approved, it was never issued since the property owner did not come in to pick it up or pay for the permit fees.
 In May of 2022, that permit was voided. It's standard policy that when permits go unissued, they're voided after a set amount of time, six months in this case. As a result of that, the next stage was to bring the item to city council for consideration to be raised and removed. That was first heard by council on July 5th, where it was tabled to August 2nd to afford the property owner the opportunity to relocate since they were still living in the house at the time.
 Uh, that was followed by a, um,
 an August 2nd city council meeting where the item was again tabled after a family member sought to represent their parent and see that the property be taken care of. Soon thereafter, a delineation permit was issued in mid August of last year. And then most recently in October of 2022, there was a request from the family member to table the item for six months to afford them time to demolish their house themselves.
 As far as an update goes, I have a series of slides that code enforcement was able to take on the property. What you'll see is the order of the shots taken in October and then the next picture will be as it stands today. The snow makes it pretty clear which was taken most recently. So you can see that a significant amount or not the entirety of the roof has been taken down on the house, although a lot of the exterior walls are still standing on the property.
 Similarly, as you move around to the rest of the property, there are the accessory structures on the property, specifically the shed on the rear of it is still standing, which as we move through them here, you can see that this is getting towards the northeast end of the site and it still stands today.
 As for other items, I'm available for questions. Again, staff's recommendation was that the building be, that the council issue an order of raising removal for the building and also approve a budget adjustment to pay for the bid amount that was made for the removal of that building. And I'm happy to take any questions the council has, and I believe the family members here is the representative for the item there.
 YES, WOULD THE FAMILY MEMBER LIKE TO SPEAK BEFORE THE COUNCIL? YOU HAVE 10 MINUTES. GOOD EVENING. THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME AGAIN. UNFORTUNATELY I HAVE NOT COMPLETED DEMOLITION ON THE PROPERTY. I HAD MISTAKENLY BELIEVED THAT THE ROOF WOULD BE AS EASY AS THE BACK EXTENSION TO GET DOWN AND THAT WAS DEFINITELY NOT THE CASE. WHEREAS I HAD ASSUMED PREVIOUS DAMAGE TO THE ROOF WOULD HELP, IT INSTEAD GREATLY HINDERED MY LABOR.
 And damage to the floorboards and rafters meant I had to slow down for my own safety and caused problems I did not expect. Despite the difficulties, I have achieved almost complete removal of the roof, except for one small, as of now, inaccessible section that you saw on the portion facing the road. My plans right now are to clean up the debris that I've already accumulated. Afterwards, I can start on the rest of the house.
 beginning with the northwest corner and working my way in. Recently, my father has moved back to Fayetteville. We have been working on getting him permanent housing and resettled. Once that has been accomplished, I believe progress will hasten. Already, he has begun to clear the land while I work on the structures.
 I'm asking for another four months to complete total demolition. I have a much better understanding of what exactly this endeavor entails now, and also a better understanding of what my abilities are in a time frame. I'm hoping to have proven my commitment to this council to get this project finished, and that you all can grant me this time. Thank you all.
 Thank you. What questions do we have from the council for the family member or the staff?
 I just have a question for Jonathan. Do you have an estimated adjustment or is that 17,000? That's what we had bid before. That was from when the item was originally bid. If council were to take action or if the property owner were to do the work themselves, I mean, that amount would need to be rebid given the amount of work that they've done. We typically rebid those in case that has brought the cost down.
 it doesn't always guarantee that it's gone down it's possible that it could go up with other considerations whether it's fuel costs or labor costs or whatever else okay thank you and then i have a question for the applicant too um if we were to find that this amount was lower would you be interested in the city
 pursuing the raise and removal just to keep you from having to do the work it's possible depending on how low it is i'm okay you know i've i've come this far i'm pretty determined to get it done now i can and honestly it's kind of cathartic so i i don't really mind it but okay thank you yeah i have a question for the applicant um you know earlier on i think you said your
 Once this was torn down, your father was going to try and put some sort of structure, and I don't remember if it was going to be a mobile home, but that wasn't maybe not going to be allowed. Right. It was. We had planned possibly a prefabricated home, but it would need to be rezoned to an agriculture. Okay.
 Is that still your plan or is he looking for housing elsewhere? No, that's still our plan. Right now we're looking for housing for him, my daughter, and my partner so that it's easier to kind of handle all this while we do figure out.
 the best course of action for the land. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. Scott, you had your light on and then Teresa. Go ahead, Scott. So you're doing this pretty much solely by yourself? Yes. Well, I did the roof by myself, but I have friends that are going to help me with cleanup and the rest of it.
 And if we were to give you an extension of four months, how realistic is it that you're thinking that you, considering the progress you've made so far, are going to be able to get that done? I think it's pretty, I think it's a pretty good estimate. The roof was the hard part. And now that I have that down, the walls are going to be easy.
 And then the other two structures, they have so much damage already that they're basically just walls anyway. So those will be easy as well.
 I appreciate that you've made so much progress on there. I know you haven't completed it as you thought you may be able to do. Do you have some containers that are out there that you're able to actually put all this stuff in? I mean, how is that part of removing the debris progressing? Well, we have been renting dumpsters, but they're, you know, for a couple days. So, you know, we've been working on that.
 Right now, the debris is just really on the property, and I've been trying to move it into more manageable piles. But for everything else that is in okay condition, we've been using a storage shed. Okay. It might just be more efficient if you were able to get a dumpster or maybe we could –
 Have one donated or something some way to help facilitate this because this does look like it's still a pretty large project Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, it is a large project, but I'm confident that I can do it and the dumpsters are the Expensive part so we've been renting them as we go. Thank you. Okay, so
 anybody i have a question about the dumpsters and i'm not sure what who wants staff to ask that i i like that idea um that you have council person turk about the potential that we could maybe assist with the city dumpster possibly is that something that we could possibly arrange for this property i'm not able to speak to that i'm not familiar to any program of that nature but we can certainly look into that with the recycling and trash collections group and see what opportunities there are it would
 Excuse me, Mr. Mayor. It would be at least a 20-cubic yard, if not 40-cubic yard dumpster. I mean, that's a roll-off, the largest that a truck can handle. And we can get a price for that. But I don't know that we can...
 donate that per se. We had a request from another demolition project that we denied when they asked for dumpsters to be provided and so we should probably be a little bit cautious on that but certainly we can get the price of a 40 cubic yard and see what that is. And then you're going to have to have a truck to haul it. You're not going to haul an off four-wheel drive pickup truck.
 it's going to take a big truck to move it and then you got to have some place to dispose of so
 Any other questions from the council? Sure. One more question. So you feel like you have enough help, like physical help? Yeah. You're going to get some people to help you and tools and everything and safety equipment? Yes. I set up a GoFundMe account when this all started, and that has helped a lot, paying for tools, paying for some of the dumpsters and all the safety equipment. Okay. Okay.
 Great. Please do communicate with us if you need help with a specific thing. That way we can maybe if we're not able to do it through the city, we could there might be other opportunities that some people might know about. OK. Yeah. Thanks. So are you trying to salvage material? Yes. I'm sorry. Are you trying to salvage material?
 In the beginning I was, but the damage to a lot of the materials was just too great. I was going to say you could get a track hoe in there pretty easy and do it pretty quick if you're not trying to salvage anything. Well, again, it's cost. Okay. Okay. Let's go ahead and take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone in public or any council members stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anybody that wants to address this in the chamber on this topic? Do we have anybody on Zoom? Yes, sir. I have Chuck Mills on Zoom. Go ahead. Hello. Can you guys hear me? You should speak a little louder. Oh, hi. Can you hear me? Okay.
 Can you guys hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay, thank you. Hi, my name's Chuck. I'm a friend of Maya's. I'm here with my fiancé, who's her childhood best friend. And we really, and all of our friends, appreciate the extensions and the time that you've given to her so far. We see her every two or three days, and we get updates on this a lot. And she's just been working, like, so hard, as you can all see.
 And she's like she said, she got the most difficult portion of the house down. And she did it by hand, which is just, you know, that's crazy. And she did it, you know, so efficiently while being safe about it. And I think it's just really important that we do everything we can to support her because she's a great member of the community. And she's, you know, working for this land to raise her family on. So I want to thank you guys again for everything you've done for her.
 And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else do you have, Susan? Mindy Frazier. Okay, go ahead. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, perfect. I'm also afraid of Mayas. I've known Maya for a really long time. This land means a lot to Maya and her family.
 It means a possible site for a future home and a chance for her family to thrive in a way it has not been allowed to. She's been faced with an extremely tough, time-consuming, and at times expensive task. And as Chuck said, I do think it's important as a community that we support her in this. She has a lot of people rallying behind her,
 We are all prepared to help her when she needs it, especially when it comes to cleaning all of that up and making sure that she has the tools and support that she needs. So I think it's important to grant her an extension because it would be a tragedy to take it away from her after she's worked so hard. Thank you. Thank you. Who else?
 Okay, well I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes the council?
 Tracy, go ahead. Okay. You know, I would like to grant this young woman that's working so hard the four-month extension and make sure that that's the final extension that we give her. It sounds like she's got quite a few friends that are willing to help her. The weather is going to get a little bit better. It hasn't been great the last couple of months. And while we may not be able to give her a container, I'm wondering if there's a way
 provide it at a discount or something like that. Because I think it's so much better to be able to have a person or a family member be able to demolish this house that's unlivable. She's made a lot of progress.
 And as opposed to us coming in there and sending her a bill for demolition. It might be more efficient, it might be quicker, but she has to pay that money and clearly with the GoFundMe site, she's trying to find other community support to get this accomplished. So those are kind of my thoughts about the situation. I think we should give her the extra four months.
 I was kind of thinking the same thing. I really, I'm afraid we're about, you know, we're going to have rainy weather. It's spring that she may not be able to get this done in four months. And, but I know, I know she told us she was going to try and she didn't want to do the, let the city tear it down because then that puts a lien on the property that she has to
 And that makes it hard for them to buy and put something else on that property. And I don't like the idea of putting someone in that position when they are trying. But I agree with Teresa. I would say this would have to be the last extension.
 And I just don't know if we're getting into, you know, if we have rain on and off for the next couple of months, I don't know if she's going to be able to get in there and really get it cleaned up or not. But I'd be willing to give her a chance to do that. The applicant has definitely shown a lot of good faith there.
 A 30 or 40 cubic yard roll-off bin are the same 30-day rental price of $300, and then you pay a $60 per ton dump tip fee at the landfill.
 Those will hold quite a bit and I would say they're going to need at least one of those, if not more than one, to eliminate material. But certainly the applicant has shown a lot of good faith, so I commend her for that effort. Okay, well, I... May I ask her one question? Sure, you sure can. Do you have funds to be able to get a couple of dumpsters? If you want to come on up.
 We have funds for one dumpster right now, and then I'm hoping to raise more, but also I'll be using some of our own money. Anybody else? I moved a table for four months. Okay. Second. We have a motion to second to table for four months. We'll give a four-month extension, basically. So that'll be the first meeting in June, I think. That'll be four months. Anybody got a date on that?
 it'll be the first meeting of june then wherever whenever that is well all right why don't we so we'll do the second meeting in june all right so we'll table to the second meeting of june is everybody okay okay all right may i say one thing if if she can contact me i will help her okay uh with some equipment so uh just
 you can contact me and I'll help you with some equipment. All right. Thank you. Sarah, do you have something else? Oh, no, no. I was getting ready to go out. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm just checking. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Ernest? Yes. Hedge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 thank you all number two an ordinance to amend 130.39 graffiti in the federal code to create a graffiti abatement program now i have here that we heard it on january the 3rd 2023 city council meeting and this was tabled to the february 7th 2023 city council meeting and i understand teresa you want to table it again
 Yes, sir. I had a meeting with the Arts Council at their last meeting. They had a lot of comments. They wanted to do some research on some other graffiti ordinances around the country. I think their next meeting is on the 13th, I believe, or maybe it's the 15th. Excuse me, it's the 15th of February. So I'd like to hear what recommendations they have.
 and if we could table it to the to our next council meeting on the 21st I think we'll be ready to have some further discussion and maybe some amendments to the to the present draft so you want to table it till the 21st that's correct that's I think that's the next I think that's our next City Council meeting
 So that's your motion. That's my motion. I have a second. You got all that stuff, Kara? Nope. No, I'm sorry. The city attorney was asking me a question. Oh, okay. I asked her what reading was on. Holly made a motion and Sonia seconded it. Is that right? Did I get that right? And that's to table for how long? Teresa made the motion. Oh, I'm sorry. Teresa made the motion to the 21st and then Sonia seconded it. Correct? Did I get it right that time? Okay. Okay.
 the 21st of february yes okay so now let's take some public comment in case somebody's here to speak on this uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that do we have anybody to speak on this topic in the chamber
 all right susie have anybody on nobody who spoke earlier is still here so no okay so you don't have anybody all right all right with that we have a motion in the second table until the 21st care would you please call the roll verna yes sir
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue and wards one and two to vacate portions of street rights of way. This is on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And your ordinance approved the AC 22-24 for property located along Razorback Road, Maple Street, Garland Avenue, Cleveland Street, Hill Avenue, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, and Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue in wards 1 and 2 to vacate portions of street rights-of-way. Okay, Jonathan, do you have this one? Yes.
 I do, Mayor, but I don't have any new changes to the request. Just to share, if anyone didn't hear it at the agenda session, that this was heard at the Town and Gown Committee, where the 10 to 20 year history of it was described. And this is basically a middle step to moving forward with the transition of some of these rights away to the university for their use.
 I think it was generally seen as a positive example of University City collaboration. Of course, let Councilmember Turk add to that if she'd like to as the Councilmember representing the Town and Gown Committee. Otherwise, I'm happy to take any questions and Jay Young is here as the representative for the item, Mayor. Mayor Weill. Can I speak for the Council? You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Council Members. I'll just be real brief and just reiterate, as Jonathan said, you know, this is a almost 20-year endeavor between the University and the City. They started when the Highway Department began widening Razorback Road. At that time it was Highway 112, and there were agreements between the City and the University about improvements that the University wanted to make and that the University would be maintaining and replacing those improvements as needed.
 as the highway department expanded the rights of ways when they did the widenings they took large portions of right-of-way and it had always been kind of the plan to go back at some point clean that up once the highway department delisted highway 112 and it became city property that kind of became that moment for the university to pursue this action we started a couple years ago right after that delisting and we've come to you now with kind of the
 almost the end of that endeavor. If approved tonight, the ordinance would have nine conditions of approval that are listed. And then once those conditions of approval are met, then the vacation would be complete. So with that, I'm happy to answer any questions and I appreciate y'all's, this opportunity to speak to y'all. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for the council or statements?
 before we take public comment. Teresa. I'd like to add on to a little bit about what happened at the Town and Gown Committee meeting. We did discuss this. I think this is a great example of the city and the university working together on issues. I mentioned that they had been doing work on Cleveland and it had been rather noisy and I'd received some complaints
 And so what we talked about was better communication. The U of A actually had a communication person that would reach out to the listservs in the neighborhood and they were actually asking for any listserv information.
 and maybe possibly reinstating a communication person, but certainly being able to notify the community when they were gonna start working on some of these sidewalks and doing those kind of changes. So I think the conversation was very positive and I think that will be very helpful. Just a helpful notification, I think will solve most problems. Okay, is there anything else from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic?
 you have any no one on zoom air okay well i'm going to bring it back to the council uh we're on the third and final reading is there any final comments from the council okay care would you please call the row bernard yes butch yes yes yes yes harvey yes jones yes more yes we declare yes all right thank you all very much let's go to new business
 number one a resolution to approve and update to the federal active transportation plan thank
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. My name is Dane Eifling. I'm the Mobility Coordinator for the City of Fayetteville. I work in the Engineering Offices and I'll be presenting some slides this evening from our update to our Active Transportation Plan for the City of Fayetteville. This plan was originally drafted in 2015 and so this is just an update to that
 existing document and I've got some summary slides prepared that will help you kind of understand the gist of this slide. The full 48 page document was in your packet and there was a minor update courtesy of Councilmember Whitaker to that document that is a supplementary attachment earlier today. So are we able to see the slides? Okay, thank you.
 Great. Okay. So I'll just begin a little bit with an overview. So active transportation is any form of human powered transportation, which usually is bicycling and walking, but can include wheelchairs, roller skates, e-bikes, and much more.
 Active transportation has a variety of community-wide and individual benefits when compared with automotive transportation. More people engaged in active transportation means a healthier population, more money in our local economy, less pollution in our waterways and air, and less space required to park and drive all those cars.
 The City of Fayetteville has invested for decades in building active transportation networks, including sidewalks, trails, bike lanes, and we have become a leader in the state, the region, and indeed the country in building a more bikeable and walkable community. And any successful endeavor requires high quality planning to help us guide decisions and establish goals. A little bit of background with our active transportation planning. 2023 will be the 20th anniversary of
 of the 2003 Fayetteville Active Transportation and Trails Plan, the FAP plan, which helped lay the groundwork for the trail system as we know it. The current version of the ATP, as I mentioned before, was originally adopted in April of 2015. And one important note that I wanted to emphasize is that the update to this document does not affect or change the master
 trails plan map, so it will not change any of the alignments of the master plan map, which was last updated in 2020. The 2015 plan looked very different and it looks very different from a lot of planning documents that you may see because it is done
 purely in-house through city staff and local input. There's no consultant hired for this plan. It's done in-house. And so the language is meant to be simple. The graphics are meant to be approachable so that any member of the public, an average person can pick this document up, understand it and take information from it and engage with it.
 And the reason why we're updating the document is that a lot has happened in the world of active transportation, and indeed the world in general. A lot of progress has been made. Fayetteville has moved up from a bronze bicycle-friendly community to now being gold. I wanted to get a little plug in for that. But more importantly, we've seen major shifts in the world towards greater emphasis on equity and protections for our most vulnerable road users.
 We've seen technological advancements that have enabled a boom in e-bikes and micro mobility, and we have more than a half a million rides each year on our shared e-scooters and bikes in Fayetteville. And we've adopted new transportation plans, including the 2018 mobility plan. We've approved new transportation bond funding.
 A NEW CITY PLAN 2040 AND A NEW REGIONAL ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN UPDATE IS IN THE WORKS. SO THE LANDSCAPE IS CHANGING FOR ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION AND WE NEED TO UPDATE THE PLAN ACCORDINGLY. AS I'VE MENTIONED IN THE MEMO, THE STAFF MEMO OUTLINED THAT THIS HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED THROUGH OUR ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE, THE CITY COUNCIL'S TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE AS WELL AS THE PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 and before coming here to the full council. This plan incorporates guidance from other cities, as well as public input from our mobility plan, active transportation advisory committee, walking and biking advocates, planning professionals. And it focuses on how infrastructure programs and planning can help improve safety, transportation options for all of Fayetteville's residents, regardless of how they choose to get around town. So next slide, please.
 THE SIX GOALS OF THE PLAN WHICH HAVE BEEN UPDATED SINCE THE 2015 VERSION. NUMBER ONE, STRIVE TO CREATE AN EQUITABLE MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM FOR ALL AGES AND ABILITIES. NUMBER TWO, TO BUILD A PAVED TRAIL CONNECTION WITHIN A 10 MINUTE WALK OR TWO MINUTE BIKE RIDE OF EVERY RESIDENT BY THE YEAR 2040. NUMBER THREE, TO ENCOURAGE NEW PARTICIPATION IN ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION AND GATHER AND EVALUATE DATA AND TRENDS TO MEASURE SUCCESS.
 ZERO FATALITIES OR SEVERE INJURIES OF VULNERABLE ROADWAY USERS BY THE YEAR 2030. NUMBER FIVE, IMPLEMENT ALL THE APPROPRIATE RECOMMENDATIONS FROM LEADING ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS ON OUR COMMUNITY EVALUATIONS, ENHANCE OPPORTUNITIES FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES TO ROLL, WALK, CYCLE AND USE MICRO MOBILITY DEVICES AND OTHER INNOVATIVE MOBILITY TECHNOLOGIES TO THE GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE.
 New standards for all ages and abilities bike facilities have come from leading national organizations such as the Federal Highway Administration and the National Association of Transportation Officials. This updated ATP document lays out in simple terms what types of bike facilities are appropriate for various roadway types, and that will appeal to everyday riders and not just sports cyclists. Next slide, please. As I mentioned in the goals slide.
 We are striving to create a connected trail network within a 10 minute walk or a two minute bike ride of every residence. These maps represent our trail network and that 10 minute walk, we call it a pedestrian shed around those connected pieces of trail. And the map on the left is from 2017. You can see the light green shaded area is that 10 minute walk shed covering 58% of all residences
 And in 2022, with the extension of our trail network, that PEDSCHED has expanded to cover 68% of our residents. And if we go to the next slide, please, you can see the projected 2040 trail system will cover 97% of Fayetteville's residences, allowing them, everyone with a walking distance, access to a paved trail. Next slide, please.
 But this plan is not just about infrastructure. The plan covers a wide range of issues and leans heavily on the League of American Bicyclists 5Es ethos. Equity, engineering, education, encouragement, and evaluation and planning are the five pillars of the 5Es that we incorporate into this document throughout.
 I'd like to say that safe streets and walkability and trail access should not be a privilege. These community elements should be for everyone. And this is one reason why we've worked so hard on universal safer speed limits in residential areas across town. And we are working to use equitable policies to bring sidewalks and trails where they are most needed first.
 and this ATP update is an important step in the ongoing effort to make walking, biking, and other modes of active transportation safe, convenient, and appealing for all of Fayetteville's residents. So, I hope I can have your support in updating this document, and I would welcome any questions. What questions do we have for Dane on this? Dane, how many people participated in this? Kind of give us an idea of the
 Because I know it went through a lot of, you know, people, I guess what I'm saying is people ask us, well, when you do some plan, you know,
 how many people were involved in it and how many input sessions did you have and stuff like that you know i know we had a survey out and stuff like that so can you kind of give us a just kind of give me a little help me remember that so when someone asks me a question i can say well yes we did these 10 things here certainly and uh yes we we used um you know speakup
 Fable, Speak Up Fable data was incorporated in a lot of the narratives and information that we used. And we used feedback from a variety of surveys. It wasn't just exclusive to this plan. So a lot of the surveys that we've done in recent years have been related to Archibald Yell.
 road diet, trail intercept surveys that we do for regional planning. But we leaned hard on the committees and looking at the breadth of input that was in our mobility plan, 2018 mobility plan. And it's been years in the works and tried to incorporate from as many places as possible and bring it through the Active Transportation Committee as a sounding board for the document and then the goals.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. That helps me. What other questions do we have? I think it sounds like a good plan. I know we use Speak Up, but we also had some of our, when we were talking about our parks plan and stuff like that, when we were doing the 2019 bond program, we did a lot of those kind of surveys and took it to the public. Farmer's Market, not many may remember those, and there was quite a few of those as well, too.
 So, all right. So I guess we'll take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anyone that would like to speak on this in the chamber? Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. Then I'll bring it back to the council.
 what's wishes the council this is the first time it's being read right that's this is resolution the first time the first time is in the first and only time we should take unless we table it
 I was just wondering about holding it just for one session, just to allow for people to come if they want to read through it. It's here on the agenda. If they want one more last time to give input on it, I don't know if we're in a rush for it. If we're in a rush for it, we don't want to do that.
 Or do we want to just go ahead and approve it? It is a plan, so it's a guide. So we know it's a general guide. I was just wondering about opportunities for the public to continue to come forward if they haven't had just one last chance on the plan. What are y'all's thoughts on, I see Teresa's light on. I was just going to ask Dane, is there any reason this needs to be decided tonight? Is there any deadline that you have that this would be a problem about?
 No, it's not a time sensitive nature of the document for any impending projects that it would be determinate of. Great, thank you. You know, I would be in support of just holding it for one meeting. You know, I think the citizens were all a little, our schedules are still kind of off because we had all that bad weather. So I would be open to that suggestion.
 I wouldn't mind too holding a award meeting around it as well. Just one more last opportunity to have people give input on it if they want to look at it. Cause I get so many constant questions about,
 and things, they'll give me an opportunity to update people on what it is and what it takes to be involved. So just let them look at it one more time. Okay, so do you all want to hold it? I think so. I'm ready to move on if you want to hold it. I think that sounds fine. But if we're going to hold it, I would also like to encourage all the council members
 get out there and advertise it on their social media or whatever to make sure that people are actually paying attention to it. And we're not just holding it and causing a bottleneck at another meeting, you know, which we've done before. I'm fine with holding it.
 Okay, so we'll just move on and we'll hold this for... Well, this is a resolution, so it needs to be a motion to table the next meeting. I meant to table. Till our next meeting, which is... 21st. 21st, okay. Second. I forgot everything else, but I got that one. So we'll table this till 21st. Do we have a motion to second? Sonja, you and... Yes, second. Okay. Okay.
 All right. Chair, would you call the roll? Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number two. An ordinance to amend ordinance 6591 to extend the rental of...
 a 2000 kilowatt generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company DBA Riggs Rental Services through the end of February 2023 for the amount of $147,472.12 to approve project tenancy in the amount of $40,000.00.
 Whereas on August 2nd, 2022, the City Council passed Ordinance 6591 approving a quote from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services for the emergency rental of a 2000 kilowatt generator. And whereas it is estimated that the city will need to continue to rent the generator through the end of February while the main generator is being rebuilt by Riggs.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Ordinance 6591 and approves an extension of the rental of the 2,000-kilowatt generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services in the amount of $147,472.12.
 for use at the nolan water resource recovery facility through the end of february of 2023 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of forty thousand dollars okay
 Tim. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. So on July 8th of last year, the 2,000 kilowatt generator at the Nolan facility failed. Very critical time because we were in the process of load shedding, which runs through June through September, where we have to be off the grid at least one specified time each month. And also it's there to power the plant in case of a failure.
 So we were able to get a rental generator within 48 hours from Riggs Company. They are the sole provider of the Caterpillar brand generators.
 And so we worked with them to get it in and get it rebuilt. So they've got the generator in their shop. And because of the supply issues, it lingered on. They couldn't get all the caterpillar parts until now they do have them in the shop. But it has postponed the repair schedule. So we have to rent this generator for a couple more months. That's why we're asking for the $147,472 plus a contingency fee.
 And Riggs is rebuilding the generator as we speak. Should have it fairly quickly. And that's the story behind this. Be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have? Tim from the City Council. Tim, because we have that load sharing agreement, what's the penalty if we don't have the generator to offload our energy consumption? So the way load sharing works is...
 The regulators will set the hottest day of the month. It can be anywhere in the state. And you have to kind of predict when that will be, and you need to be off the grid for at least 15 minutes on that day. If you don't do it, the discount that you're currently getting for load shedding is roughly, I want to say, about $50,000 per month.
 And if you miss your load shedding, then the rates go back up to that price and it remains that way for the rest of the year. So it is expensive to miss a day. And of course, we always try to predict the hottest day ourselves. And when we get on there, we stay on there for about an hour, not 15 minutes, and try to keep everything between the lines.
 Do we have a contract for completion date of the repairs? Or is that just dependent on labor and supplies? Well, we have a quote and an agreement for the repair. The supply chain issues is what caused it. They did keep us informed. And I think probably by the end of March is when we'll have this generator back in place. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Yes.
 Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by then will speak after that. Well, I don't see anybody that's going to be speaking in the chamber unless the Chief is interested in this.
 and there's no one on zoom either mayor all right well i'll bring it back i'll bring it i'll bring it back to the uh i'll bring it back to the council i would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second okay care which police call the road bernard yes bunch yes kirk yes hertsberg yes harvey yes jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Yes. And Ordinance, Amend Ordinance 6591 to extend the rental of a 2000 kilowatt generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Rental Services through the end of February 2023 for the amount of $147,472.12 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $40,000.
 move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes yes
 and orange cement ordinance 6591 to extend the rental of a 2000 kilowatt generator from j.a riggs tractor company doing business as riggs rental services through the end of february 2023 for the amount of 147 472 dollars and 12 cents and to approve a project contingency in the amount of forty thousand dollars okay any final comments from the council
 care would you please call the roll arno yes bunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes all right thank you all let's move on to number three a resolution to authorize additional funding in the amount of one million dollars
 for the Child Care Assistance Program and to approve a budget adjustment. Paul. Well, we've discussed this before. The administration is bringing forward a recommendation to increase funding on this child care project by a million dollars. The response has been quite heavy so far. And with that, I'm going to ask Yolanda, who should be online, to give us the latest statistics on applications and processing.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council, Yolanda Fields. Yolanda, excuse me, Yolanda. Please speak more loudly. Oh, okay. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Is that good? That's better. Okay. To date, we have distributed 298 applications. Okay.
 In our approval bucket, we have 70 applications for an estimated cost of $840,000. That would provide assistance for 90 children. In our pending approval bucket, we have 17 applications. The estimated cost on that is $204,000, and that would be assisting 20 children. Okay. Do we have any questions? Yes.
 um yolanda thank you for that update um would it be appropriate for me to propose an amendment right now okay i would like to propose um as discussed at the arpa workshop to increase the budget adjustment from 1 million to 1.5 million second did i hear a second second okay all right all right any discussion on the amendment
 Okay. I just had a question. I know we've been kind of doing this as a rolling application process, and if we're going to go to 1.5, I think in our workshop we were probably quite clear that's probably all the money we're going to allocate just because there are other needs and very little money left. And so I'm curious about whether or not we're going to set a timeline to give as many possible applicants the ability to go ahead and apply.
 apply and then for there to be some kind of set timing that they would get an approval process where we would designate certain criteria that would be looking for those applicants. I, I applied the administration and Yolanda, your staff, we got the updates in regard to the,
 the income levels of the families that have been impacted. And we've just ended up being able to really impact folks across, you know, all income spectrums, which is a really, I applaud, you know, the staff to be able to do that and make that equitable. And so just hoping to continue to make that program equitable going forward when people are kind of in the throes of everyday life and not aware of this program.
 Really struggling to find childcare. It would be really a shame for them to see this, you know a little too late And so I know that the team will do a good job of getting The details out there, but I would I would ask if we would you know set a timeline for you know Taking applications in and then making decisions just to make sure everyone possible could apply. Well, I don't believe we have have Stopped the applications. We have not. We haven't stopped those.
 Well, I guess my concern is that we don't know if that might be $3 million worth of applications and I don't know that we'll have ARPA money available. And so that was my concern is just to set a timeline possibly so that we can maybe try to encourage community members and get the word out to get as many apps in as possible to then really evaluate what that need looks like across the spectrum to take care of those families.
 Why don't we ask Yolanda if she has a recommended timeline? Because given what she's seen coming in, that might make good sense. Yolanda? Yeah.
 Okay, I just want to make sure that we're clear that pretty much on the income level, it's pretty much spread across the board. So we're getting good information out there. We're going to do another push for information. What we're doing right now at this point is we will take applications, and those are in the approval bucket. We're going to keep approving them until we have full commitment of the total dollar amount. Yep.
 Is the concern that there wouldn't be a spread amongst
 The different income levels, is that the concern? The concern is that if we don't announce a deadline for applications and people understand that this money will run out, that we'll keep taking applications and we will spend all the money and then there'll be an expectation that we'll find more money. That's the concern. So given what you've seen, how long do you believe we should be taking applications?
 That's good. Well, as quickly as this is moving right now with what we've got in the approval bucket and the pending, we're already at a million. And we've been working this since the beginning of December. So we're talking two months. So I would say definitely within the next two months, we'll have this money out the door.
 So when would you become committed as far as committed for the for the period of time for like a year for each of the applicants? So when would you anticipate would be the wisest time to say we believe the money should we only want to take applications up to this point and evaluate where we are?
 We will be looking at this. What I would recommend is that we look at this at the end of the month, at the end of February, and see where we're at. And then at that point, we could make a better call on how much more time we would have ability to take applications. Does that sound good?
 I think that's where Councilmember Moore was headed, just to give some guidelines to the people about how long we'll be taking it. That would be it. So we will review and we will look at the end of the month. And if at that point we need to call it done, then we're done. And we will advise folks that we just cannot take any more applications. Sounds great. We'll probably ask you back on February 21st just to see where we are.
 Okay. I might suggest that we don't do any more applications because at this point, until you get a feel for at the end of the month where you are, because very likely the money we have is going to be gone before, you know,
 all those applicants are even worked through if we're- You can see how fast it's- Yeah, it's evaporating fast. The one thing that we're also having some challenges with is individuals that are in the approval bucket, they're not responding. And so we're giving them opportunity, we're reaching out, we're doing three calls, we're sending out a letter, we're gonna give them every opportunity to respond. If they do not respond,
 then we will put them, we're not gonna close it. We'll put them in an inactive folder and move forward. But when we send them that final letter, we're gonna let them know that funding could be exhausted. So they need to get back to us as quickly as possible.
 So we could have some of these folks falling out, and then we'll move others in. But we'll keep an eye on it just to make sure that we don't run out of funds for the applications that make it into the approval bucket or the pending bucket. Because we have sent out almost 300 applications, but not everyone is getting them back to us.
 Can I make a recommendation? Yolanda, can we plan on giving the council an update next week at the agenda session? See where we are right there and see if we need to make a decision at that point. Absolutely. I have a comment. I'm sorry, Mike, you were ahead of me.
 Yeah, I was just going to say that $2 million is enough to fund 166 applicants if they average two children. So the other way to look at it is that's 232 children on average given the cost. So that $2 million is going to get earmarked very quickly. I think so.
 I do. Yolanda, if I recall correctly from our discussion last week, not too many folks had applied for Ward 4, so I don't know if you're going to kind of do an outreach campaign there or if that...
 you know horses left the barn already but i just remembered that there weren't that many people that have applied from ward four so i did not know how that uh the word had not been spread adequately or maybe they just didn't need it so thank you yeah we're we're going to be pushing it out with all our community partners and um on of course all our city communications
 platforms. And I just wanna mention that when you're looking at the information on the wards, that those are individuals that live, work, or go to school in that area. It's not necessarily that they live in that ward. They just, it may just be that there are more folks that work in other wards or go to school in other wards, but we will definitely get the word out.
 We're just we keep pushing it out there so that folks are aware that this assistance is there because it could make a huge difference in somebody's life as far as being able to get training to get a better job to just have a year's worth of relief. So we'll keep pushing that out there. Thank you. Thank you, Yolanda. I appreciate it.
 I just want to try to illustrate maybe in a different way part of my concern. Scott, you're hearing me being worried that we maybe already have a lot of applications that maybe fulfill this obligation.
 ARPA funds are for our most impacted populations and very vulnerable folks that may have lots of burdens happening in their life. And so the way that I feel like I'm hearing applications become approved is who can get through all of the additional follow-ups. And you might have certain individuals who are in the same situation.
 that need child care assistance that may struggle to give that follow-up and it may take them time. And so it feels like I'm hearing, you know, whoever is the fastest, you know, the best at responding has, you know, the least barriers is potentially going to get a full application. And that's where I'm just saying I want us to be mindful that, you know, someone might have a technology barrier, you know, someone might have an ill relative they're taking
 of someone might work three jobs that they're juggling, and so they might respond more slowly. And that's why I think it does better justice to create more equitable process. If we set an actual timeline, if it's a thousand applications and we only know we can do 200,
 We put in place some kind of lottery system and say, you know, these certain demographics we're going to, you know, give out until the money is gone, but everyone gets a fair possibility of participation. And that's the concern that I have is I think there are still probably folks that need childcare and they just maybe haven't even heard about the program yet. And again, I'd love to be able to give, you know, millions more, but I know that we can't make money come up.
 want to give as many people an opportunity to participate, knowing the need is really great and the barriers are quite high. And so I'm just hoping that maybe we can think about that to set a deadline and knowing that the need is going to outstrip, as you said, mayor, is going to outstrip what we have, but putting a process in place
 be it lottery and to assist those folks. As Yolanda, your department does a great job of helping folks kind of through those barriers. But I'd hate for a handful of the families that are in that process that are really just struggling to get the things back and forth to miss out on that just because they can't go quite as fast as someone else. Well, I hear you and I just want to make clear that again, we're going to push this information out there. What we're doing with our current applicants
 is we provide them information. They can do it. They can submit it on their own via their internet or they can set up an appointment. We will sit down. We will actually fill out the application with them. We make numerous calls. We're going to make at least three calls and a letter
 to try and get them into the office. We wait on them. Some of the folks, of course, they work. They can't come to our office until after five. We are setting appointments after five. Or if they need to come in before eight, we are setting appointments before eight. If they need us to come to their home, we will do that also. So we are trying to deal with all the barriers that exist because we know how important this assistance is to our families in need.
 So we will definitely be looking at that and we will present an update and we will try to make sure to get everyone that is in need, get them to the table so that they have a fair chance to get assistance. Absolutely. And whatever the process that we're going to do, we're still going to need the money to do it. I mean, we're still going to need the million dollars to do it. And then the process we will we will work on.
 unless you all want to do something on the process. I think we should pass the funding tonight. I think we should too. I want to applaud Yolanda and her staff. It sounds like they've done an incredible job of getting the word out. The applications are there. They're doing everything they can do to get the applicants approved.
 I'm not comfortable with changing our system halfway through it because I think that just leads to confusion. But I think the staff's doing an amazing job.
 I just want to encourage everybody to definitely share on your social media because I think this is one of those real critical, very critical shares. And I've been doing it on my personal and this council and your favorite groups because I think this is one of those we can't share it enough. So thank you, Yolanda, for all your work and your after hours work and for your team. We'll do our best to help you to get it out there.
 Do we need to move now or what are we? Oh, we're ready to vote. We voted? No, we have. We have a motion and a second. I believe right here. We have an amendment on the floor to change it from $1 million to $1.5 million. Thank you. So I guess my question is about taking any public comments yet. Anybody remember? No.
 I know we're voting on the amendment. I'm sorry. All right. There's not any other discussion. Please call the roll. Burner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. So the resolution has been amended. We have the amended resolution. All rights. All rights.
 What discussion do you want to have on the amended resolution? I think we have been discussing it. Do you want to take some public comment? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. I don't care. Do you want to speak? Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. My name is Kerr Paxton. I live at 1166 South Gentle Valley Drive in Fayetteville. I'm very happy to be a Fayetteville resident. I love Fayetteville. I love what we do for our community and for our citizens. I just want to share to you from a parent's perspective of what this means.
 I know that this is an eligibility criteria and not everyone is going to be eligible to receive these funds. When the pandemic happened, I had been in my position for roughly four months.
 I had been to training in Stuttgart, Arkansas, and I came home that weekend to find out that my children's school would be closed. I had two children. One was under the age of five, and one was roughly in the second grade, first, second grade. It was that time period.
 It was so nerve-wracking to think, what do you do now? So there's no telework policy where you work, right? You're new to a position. Not only that, you are someone that has to be there in order to make sure that your people are taken care of as well if you're a manager. I got to the point where I ended up having to hire a full-time person to come to my house every day.
 That came at a great cost to my family. It was roughly $450 a week. For those of you adding that up over a 12-month period, it's $23,400. When you're here for late-night council meetings, that's another $80 to $100 a week. Here until 10, 2 a.m. I'm not the only person, of course, that is a parent in Fayetteville. There are lots more.
 There are a lot more that go to lake meetings. There are a lot more that have to travel for their jobs. I unfortunately was not able to be here for the ARPA meeting due to a prior commitment that I have. I have a child that requires a lot of therapies and classes and trainings that I take. This goes on top.
 of working a 40 plus hour a week job. Excuse me. I don't say any of this because I do it happily. I love what I do. I love the people I work with. But when you look at these parents and what they've gone through the last three years, it is so painful to,
 And when you have, when you log on to a Zoom meeting for your child, on the off chance that you do get to be there for them in order to help them stay or sit or sit, and you see these other children that their parents can't afford to have a sitter, they are home alone. Seven, eight years old, they are home alone. They have no one.
 And based on my understanding in Arkansas, there's actually not a set age of how old you have to be to stay home alone. That doesn't mean that you don't need to have someone there. You know, it's so dangerous to think leaving a child home in order to make sure that they have to join their Zoom meetings.
 They didn't just have one Zoom meeting a day. They had five or six. They covered all their subjects. In addition to that, they would have follow-up meetings with their teachers on Fridays in order to go back and reiterate anything that the teacher felt that they needed to go back on. I am so thankful that...
 after many years that we've been talking about ARPA, that this has come forward to bring this money to people that need it. Thankfully, my husband and I, as I said, we're very fortunate to have been in the military and paid for our college to where we could have jobs that we have now. Not everyone is that fortunate. So from the bottom of my heart, I just wanna say thank you to each and every one of you.
 for listening to me as a parent, but realizing I'm just one person in the 95,000 population city. There are so many more right here, your next door neighbor, your council member that's sitting right beside you. So again, thank you very much. Thank you, Karen. Okay.
 Do you have anyone online? No, sir. Okay. Then I will bring it back to the council. We have the amended resolution. I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Thank you all very much. This is very important. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Burnett? Yes.
 Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Erdsberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Lederker. Yes. Okay, thank you all. This is going to help a lot of folks. All right, number four.
 An ordinance to amend 33.331 attendance requirements of the Federal City Code to remove the presumed resignation of a civil service commissioner who has failed to attend at least 70% of the meetings. Kip? Mr. Mayor, before I read the ordinance, after I presented this initially at the agenda session, I went back and looked at the state law.
 Now, the vast majority of Fayetteville's citizen volunteer committees have been created pursuant to the City's general powers and therefore are susceptible to the City Council rules concerning appointment, attendance, and removal of members of the committees. However, several commissions and boards have been created pursuant to specific authorizing statutes which may limit and sometimes do limit the power of the City Council for removing members. I've reviewed these authorizing statutes for our boards and commissions.
 And some of this state legislation provides specific limited reasons or methods of removal of commission members, or in the case of the A&P Commission, no power at all. Therefore, I need to expand the number of commissions and boards that the city council has required. Seventy percent attendance cannot affect. I sent you yesterday this memo as well as this proposed amended ordinance.
 which excludes the commissions and boards which the authorizing statutes provide a contrary procedure for removing members. These boards or commissions are the Civil Service Commission, the Housing Authority, the Public Facilities Board, the Library Board of Trustees, and the A&P Commission.
 I would ask that someone move to amend the previous order that I had prepared, previous ordinance that I prepared and substitute it with the one that I sent you yesterday before I read it and that way it'll want to read two different ordinances. Yes. I move we amend it to the ordinance as provided in the packet. Second.
 Yeah, the ordinance that I was sent out yesterday, but also Kara has placed in the packet. Everybody good? Just check. Kara, would you please call the roll? Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Whereas 11 years ago the city was experiencing excessive absenteeism of volunteer citizen members of our boards, commissions, and committees, which hampered the committee's work and activities. And whereas to remedy this lack of attendance problem, the City Council enacted Section 33.331, which established a requirement of 70% attendance of all committee meetings within a 12-month period.
 And whereas rather than requiring the administration or city council to specifically act to remove any such committee members who had failed to attend 70% of the meetings, the city council enacted provision that such failure to attend enough meetings would create a presumption that the committee member has resigned. And whereas if the committee member did not want to resign, the committee members could petition the city council reinstatement within 20 days.
 And whereas this code attendance requirement has been very successful to increase regular attendance on volunteer city committees with little or no restatement requested, reinstatement requested, sorry. And whereas since state law explicitly requires that removal of a civil service commission requires a two-third vote by the city council.
 These commissioners should be exempted from the presumed resignation provision of Section 33.331 and, whereas some other statutory authorizing boards and commissions that the City Council has enacted must also follow state law procedures when removing a member and so need to be exempted from the lack of the 70% attendance causing a deemed vacancy.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 33.331, Attendance Requirements, Subsection A of the Fayetteville Code, by repealing it in its entirety and enacting the following replacement, Subsection A, as follows. Any citizen, volunteer, member of any city, board, commission, or authority, or committee,
 except the Civil Service Commission, the Library Board of Trustees, the Housing Authority, the Public Facilities Board, and the A&P Commission, who fails to attend at least 70% of all the meetings of that committee within a 12-month period of service, shall be deemed to have resigned from the board, commission, or committee, and that person's position shall be deemed vacant. Okay.
 I think I explained why we need this. We just need to follow the state law, but I'll be ready to answer any other questions you might have. What questions do we have for Ken on this one? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address those questions.
 If you're present, the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anyone that would like to speak to this in the chamber? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? Nobody on Zoom. I think this is inside baseball, Mayor. All right. Well, I will bring it back to the council. What's the discussion the council would like to have? What action would the council like to take?
 move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second to go the second read care would you please call the roll Vernon yes bench yes yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes yes
 In order to amend section 33.331 attendance requirements of the Fayetteville City Code, remove the presumed resignation of a civil service commissioner who has failed to attend at least 70% of the meetings. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second, third reading? Third reading. Final reading? Second. We have a motion to say we'll go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 bernard yes budge yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes in orange men section 33.331 attendance requirements of the fable city code remove the resume resignation of a civil service commissioner who has failed to attend at least 70 percent of the meetings okay final comments from the council
 care would you please call the road verna yes bench yes yes yes yes harvey yes jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. Susan, do you have any announcements or anything? No, sir, not tonight. Well, Mayor, I do have one thing, or Teresa does. She has informed my office that she plans to take from the table her previous resolution at the next meeting.
 This was the resolution concerning $1 million that was going to be for an expanded timeframe for people to be able to make filings on it. And normally if you take something from the table at a meeting, you don't vote on it because it's kind of a surprise. So this is the notice to anybody that wants to comment upon that resolution to actually be here. And I'll let Theresa explain her resolution more.
 As you guys may recall, I proposed the million dollars to compensate people that had losses during the 2021 season. So there's been some changes made to that resolution, really based on our conversation at the workshop the other night. So I would like to submit the new resolution, I guess, at the agenda session meeting. But there's some small details. Okay.
 Do I need to say anything else, Kent? No, we did send that, or I will tomorrow send out that proposed amended resolution for your consideration, and of course it will be also discussed at the agenda session. Okay. So it's no surprise. Absolutely. I think it's a good idea.
 So that's it. We just need to describe it and then you bring it forward and that's it. It's just removed from the agenda? Well, she'll take it from the table and then it'll be up to the council if they want to amend, if you all want to amend to what she's proposing. It's simply that if something has not been tabled to a specific date...
 We want to give people enough notice and that's why I want to talk about it at this meeting and the agenda session so it doesn't come as a surprise at the meeting. Gotcha. I probably need to do that with mine as well then. Probably. I'll follow back up on that. I'm going to leave that. I'll talk to you later about it. But this isn't, I've never done this before so.
 I think the reason why we're doing it is because there's a timeline. So we're trying to, instead of waiting an extra meeting, we're wanting to also vote on the amended resolution at the same meeting. It's very time sensitive because if we don't vote at that meeting, you have to change it because the timelines will all be off. Right. Okay.
 Yes, I just wanted to remind everyone that we're getting ready to have our first quarter applications for boards and you know, city boards and commissions. And you have until the 24th of February at the end of the day to get your application in. We have three positions that are open on planning commission and that's one that we hear a lot
 you know, if I were in charge, I'd do this. Well, now's your chance. You get your application in and see how it goes. Now, I will tell everyone we do have a lot of applications. And so, you know, please, a little hint is to look through some of the agendas before you come in for your interview.
 and watch some of the meetings, that sort of thing, to familiarize yourself with stuff. But we do encourage everyone to apply for all the positions we have. Thank you. Okay. And the Environmental Action Committee is accepting nominations for the Mayor's Environmental Stewardship Award for this year. I forget what the deadline is, but it's probably the end of March. It's March 1st.
 Council Member Whitaker and the details are on the website. So I hope everybody will get a chance to nominate their favorite environmental steward. Yep. Anything else? Yeah. Thanks, Scott. Thank you all. We're adjourned.