I'd like to call the order of the City Council meeting on February 5th, 2019. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening everyone. The first order of business that we have tonight is the City Council reports. Paul Becker has the monthly finance report. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This will be the report through the month of December, so it's for the year final. We're still closing the books, still playing some final expenditures that were made in December of 2018. We're also processing journal entries, so we're still closing out. We'll be closing out for probably another three weeks or more, but I'll give you where we are at this point in time. It was a very strong year for the city of Fayetteville. In the general fund, our sales taxes were up 5%. Franchise fees, which had lagged most of the year, caught up at the end. We're up about 4% for the year. So both of those were very good. Building permits were extremely strong. We were almost $700,000 higher than budget. That's very good because if you remember, we went into reserves for the pay plan and had anticipated covering that with revenue. We will have a deficit for the year in a general fund, however, that's primarily driven because we started making payments on Theater Square. That won't affect reserves or fund balance because that was reserved in a prior year. But when the financial statements come out, we'll see a deficit for this year. However, it doesn't concern me at all. Actually, we've done very well this year to what's expected. As far as the street funds concerned, revenues were pretty well stable with what they had been for the prior year in estimates. Expenditures were right about in line. We did have a loss of about $90,000 in a street fund. However, that was basically due to the major capital project we had over with Salt Storage Building. So I'm very happy with how the street fund does. As far as parking is concerned, we did have a loss. We had a loss of revenue of about $80,000. However, I see no risk as far as paying the bonds or as far as the fund balance is concerned. We do have some major capital, but we've got money reserved from reserves to handle that. So the parking fund is also in good shape in my opinion at this point in time. Parks development, parks development was up. We had a pretty good revenue increase in parks development. It was pretty close to 6% for the year. That's good going forward. Again, parks development is spent for the maintenance on the parks. As our parks are expanding, we have to look for an expansion there to fund that. And also we have some capital improvements for the neighborhood parks in there too. So that has done well this year. Water and sewer fund, water and sewer fund, we kind of fell off in sales toward the end of the year, but we're still up about 1.3% as far as revenue for the year is concerned. capital expenditure roughly in line. We do have carryovers. We have a big capital plan. We're going to be discussing that at the agenda session for water and sewer coming up this Tuesday night. For those who may be interested in that, I would suggest you look at the tape or we do stream that live. So that will be coming up this year. But water and sewer fund is in good shape at this point in time. Like I said, revenues were up. We do have a lot of capital programs out there. We're going to be discussing those. One thing we did this year in 2019, if you'll remember, we beefed up the water rehab and sewer rehab budgets. We're going to use part of the money we had in CIP that had been allocated for that to try to address some of the leaks that we've been having, if you remember. So we're going to be moving in that direction. We did put two extra people on for the leak detection program. Tim will talk a little bit more about that at the Water and Sewer Committee again. But water and sewer finished strong. Recycling, our revenue is just about flat for the year. But it's where we had anticipated going since we looked at the 2019 new rate plan. We'll be ready to implement that probably about 60 days from now. Going forward, we'll be able to afford the capital that we included to address the new programs that we talked about implementing in the recycling and trash collection plan. So that did very well, too. As far as the airport is concerned, airport revenues were up... very much for the period. Our sales were up roughly 30 percent. That's doing very good. The one caution I do have to make on the airport, and I do this every year, but we need to really take this in consideration. Capital improvements at the airport generally have been being done by federal grants. We have to match those federal grants, so we have to have some reserves to do that matching. Also, that's very necessary to keep the airport safe, to make the capital improvements we need, so we count on those federal grants. If anything happens in that area, we're going to have to have discussions about how we're going to address those needs. Now, I'm not saying we have an issue now, but I always want the council to keep that in the back of their mind, that that's something we need to keep back. We don't really generate enough through operations to meet our capital needs at the airport. However, at this point in time, I don't have any specific issues with the airport. Okay. If in fact that happens, we're going to have to talk about subsidies or what we do with the airport or how we manage that. But at this point in time, there isn't an issue. I always remind the council of that because that's something that could happen. All in all, we had a very good year for 2018. Again, we're closing the books. I'll have some finalized numbers. And our next major project will be – we'll talk a little about carryovers later in this session – And then later in this month, either the last agenda session of this month or the first agenda session next month, we're going to talk about the mayor and his recommended pay plan. We're still working on that. We're still looking at the numbers. So we don't know what that is. The mayor has not made a final decision. He has not seen the final numbers nor have we. But we'll have that plan put together at that point in time. I'll talk about how we finish the year. what the recommendation is and what that means going forward. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Quick questions. We have Paul on finances. Anything? All right. Thank you, Paul. Okay. Next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of January 15, 2019 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the Fire Department from Washington County in the amount of $3,509 in increasing the related expense budget. Number three, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $1,000 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department from the Bank of Federal Farmers and Merchants Bank for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number four, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an engagement letter with BKD LLP and pay an amount not to exceed $103,650 for auditing services for the 2018 audit. Number five, a resolution award bid number 18-56 and to authorize the purchase of preformed thermal plastic pavement markings from Covico Markings Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2019. Number six, a resolution to repeal resolution number 08-19 and authorize the purchase of with towing package from Superior Automotive Asylum Springs in the amount of $26,922 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Community Resources Division. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of two Chevrolet Traverses from Superior Dodge Ram Asylum Springs in the total amount of $50,602 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Engineering and Building Safety Divisions. Number eight. A resolution to approve the purchase of three Dodge Ram 1500 pickup trucks from Superior Dodge Ram Asylum Springs in a total amount of $67,401 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by Engineering Division. Number nine, a resolution to authorize an application for a 7525 Environmental Protection Agency Region 6 Wetland Program Development Grant in the total amount of $400,000 for stream restoration projects in the City of Fayetteville. Number 10, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,812 for a stormwater education program for 2019. Number 11, a resolution to approve an amendment to the task order number one with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the additional amount of $16,702.35 for work performed during the assessment of streams through the city associate committee. through the city associated with a wetland program development grant. Number 12, a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds for the Razorback Regional Greenway, Fullbright Expressway tunnel improvements and to approve budget adjustment. Number 13, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $10,000 recognizing public access television fee revenue to be used for promotional activities. Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 18-55 an authorized contract with KJAC's contractors incorporated in the amount of $1,067,000 for construction services associated with the elimination of the master sewer lift station and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $106,700. Number 15, a resolution to approve an amendment number 1 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Weir Engineering Corporation incorporated any amount not to exceed $33,860 for construction management and observation services associated with the elimination of the master sewer lift station. And number 16, resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $600 representing donations to a ranger's pantry and the senior giving tree. All entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as Red. Sarah. So moved. Sondra. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agendas. Red, we need to have the seconder put. There we go. All right. Thank you all. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Sarah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have one item, an ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 18-6384 for approximately 1.20 acres located at 1882 North Star Drive from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Thank you. Sarah. So moved. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ms. Harris. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Church. Yes. Smith. Yes. Ms. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6380 for approximately 1.2 acres, located at 1882 North Star Drive from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Is there anything right now? Mayor, I don't have anything additional to add from last... presentation I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have okay does that say anything before to the council JV Hayes owner I've owned this property since oh four and before that it was a dental office and a legal office so it's been annexed when the change of zoning when it should have been our old probably from the start any other questions yes what questions do we have that and our staff on this from the council and they're good Okay. The next thing we'll do, we will take some public comment on this issue. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless the council has questions for you or by a motion and a second and the majority of the council, they can give you more time at the microphone. Keep your comments directed to me and don't engage councilmember anybody out in the public stay on topic If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic and so I've been at time limit. I Think that's about it. So who would like to be first? Give us your name and address, please. Good afternoon mayor Jordan My name is Peter main. I live at 18 and 39 North Candles you drive and And I'm here to ask the council to uphold the Planning Commission's December 10th decision to deny the rezoning of this property at 1882 Star Drive. I represent the board of directors of the Crystal Cove Subdivision Property Owners Association. Our PLA has 18 homes on Candleshoot Drive, which is to the east of this property. And I'm the secretary treasurer of the PLA. excuse me what's missing from the record that's before you is that just over two ago two years ago it was the applicant himself who asked the Planning Commission to rezone this 1.2 acre track to RSF for that was part of a larger request on a twenty point five acre tract He requested the RSF4 with the known longstanding non-residential use for this 1.2 acre parcel. And he specifically said at the time that the request was for RSF4 in order to be compatible with the properties to the north, south, east and west. I'm sorry, the north, east and west. The Planning Commission approved that request in October 2016. So now the applicant wants the planning commission and now the city council to change that zoning to neighborhood services limited. However, that parcel is now surrounded north, south, east and west with RSF for residential zoning. Under RSF4, the parcel already has the maximum 3,000 square foot structure size that's touted in the staff report as limiting the potential impact on proposed rezoning. It already has conditional use for limited business. But the big difference here is that the proposed neighborhood services limited zoning allows much more than this longstanding use of the property. It allows eating places, sidewalk cafes, commercial recreation, small-scale production, and many other uses. So a change to NSL significantly expands the potential for development in the middle of the surrounding RSF-4. So it's reasonable for neighbors to be concerned about the future and the unknown uses that will be allowed under NSL. This parcel does not front on mission like other area businesses. It fronts on Star Drive where there are no other businesses. The RSF4 zoning approved by the commission just two years ago at the request of this applicant remains appropriate and consistent with the surrounding neighborhoods. So I ask you to please uphold the planning commission's December 10th decision to deny the rezoning application. Thank you. Thank you. Sarah. Yes. Mr. Mayne, you said that you represent the Crystal Cove subdivision. When... When you say that you represent them, did you have a vote of the membership? And if so, what was that vote tally? A vote of three to nothing of the three-member board of directors. Okay, so there were three individuals that made this decision? The board of directors of the Property Hunters Association, yes. Okay, so you're representing those three individuals. Thank you. Anything else? Any other questions? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, Sarah. Sarah Buckley. What I was going to ask is, there were three people that voted on this. How many houses are in that subdivision? Eighteen. Eighteen houses. Okay. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. All right. We are on the third reading. All right. What conversation did Council Member Bunch? Okay. That's all right. I would just like to note that this is in my ward and I've not received any other citizen feedback in opposition or in support of this. Okay. Mark. This, I think, is the appropriate rezoning. If you look, I think it is very compatible with the long-term possibilities of the property, but the property growth is restricted by the drainage that runs through the property. And so that's going to put some restrictions on the use and the build out of the property. And I'm taking that in consideration as I vote to support this rezoning, understanding the drainage and the topography in general with the property and the surrounding properties. This is also going to give the developer the opportunity to manage the runoff and with 20 or so new homes that are planted. Beside this, we're going to have to manage that runoff through this property in some manner anyway. So I see that it is beneficial in that aspect also. It wasn't an easy conclusion to come to. Whenever I looked at the property, I've been and walked the property. We've had a, we're familiar with the property through water, sewer, and solid waste because we offered services to property to the north of this that was out of the annexed area of the city. And that tells us that, looking at that and approving it, that we have a long-term plan for the delivery of services, the infrastructure, and the drainage. And if you look at the long-term capacity of that area of town in our 20-year water supply, That we just capital improvement plan that we just approved that also Goes along with what's going to be happening in this area of town because we're going to have Plenty of water plenty of pressure and we're going to have the capacity to go in like I say with the infrastructure so after weighing all the All the issues associated with it and with due respect to the neighborhood. I do understand your your concern and I think that Again, due to the nature of the property, it is going to not be as – it's not going to interrupt the activity of those that live there currently. That is my hope. And I think that if you look at the planted properties, that we're going to see that in reality. I'm always siding with neighborhood associations and neighborhoods, but this is not directly in the neighborhood. It is adjacent to the neighborhood. And so I, after careful consideration and walking the property and looking at what's already planted, I think that this is going to be an – the one we have is appropriate, but this also is equally appropriately – appropriate and compatible due to the location. So I will be supporting this. Okay, slow Yeah, we looked at this When I was on Planning Commission Normally, I'm almost always for increased density And bill but this is outside of the mayor's box And I understand the topography of the site. I've been on it when we looked at the subdivision Rezone, I actually Stayed an hour or two in the driveway there to watch traffic go and it's actually not a really safe area So that that was a concern being there Like I said, generally I'm for increased density, but being outside of the mayor's box. I'll be voting against this and because i believe there's other options like i i never want to stop a business like if me voting no would kill this business i would vote yes in a heartbeat but um i i believe that the business could keep going there's other options we've presented those at planning commission um and i'd still support those thank you okay Well, I'm glad that somebody spoke up in the neighborhood about this and had an opinion on it. I, too, went by and looked at the property, and although the topography looks like it would not be able to expand on this, water can be drained, ditches can be filled in, and I think this is – I will be voting against rezoning of this property. Okay. Secretary? Yes. I've looked at this quite a bit, and this is not my ward, but it's my side of town. And I think this is an appropriate rezoning for a lot of the reasons that have already been expressed. It is not just right up against the Candleshoe-Crystal Cove subdivision. And I think that there's other things that could go in this area that – you know when when you talk about a restaurant could go there or whatever you're limited by size and it still has to come back through planning and back through you know large-scale development and all that so there's there's ample time to it's not like a you know i don't think you're going to have a pizza hut there or something like that so um i think this is appropriate there's a there's a mix there's some a little bit of commercial um office space that's up closer to Mission there's also some I believe they're duplexes or something if I remember correctly that are across Star Road up closer to Mission too so there's a little mix of property around there yes that's it so I'll be in support of this thank you I also did not receive any feedback from the neighbors in Ward 1. you know just looking at it in terms of the houses that are there nearby one of the things i campaigned on is appropriate infield so for me to see businesses there is concerning especially once since we have the property owners association coming in to talk to us um i realize there's some business that is already there and they're doing that with the current zoning so i'm going to be voting against the rezoning Okay. Anybody else? Okay. All right. If there's not any other comments, I'll do what you please call the roll. Pateros? No. Marsh? Yes. Inland? Yes. Swoggin? No. Bush? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Okay. There are four votes in favor. Mayor, you can vote if you choose. I will vote yes. And the ordinance has passed. All right. Number two. A resolution certifying to the tax collector of Washington County, Arkansas, the cost of raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe. Hang on. Hang on. Mayor missed one. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. We're going to open up a public hearing. A resolution to grant a certificate of public convenience and necessity to Kyle Epsom, DBA Payless Taxi for the operation of two taxicabs in the city of Fayetteville. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Payless Taxi is requesting Council grant a certificate of public convenience and necessity to operate in the city of Fayetteville. Sorry, I got a little distracted. I'm sorry, would everybody silence their phones, please? The owner is Kyle Imsel. Kyle's requesting authorization to operate two taxis. Mr. Imsel has provided the police department with the required application, financial statement and also liability insurance. We currently have two taxi companies operating in Fayetteville. They are authorized to operate up to 34 cabs. They're currently operating seven taxi cabs now. Then they currently have 13 drivers that are permitted. Dynasty Taxi is one of them. They have 11. And then Fayetteville Taxi has two. I believe Mr. Emsel is here. He's the applicant. And I'll be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Is the owner, here's the applicant here. Yes, please come up. And then we'll take questions from both of you. Good evening. How are you all doing? All right. My name is Kyle Emsel. I'm a local business owner. I own Payless Taxi. I went into business over a year and a half ago and got licensed through the Washington County. I'm going to keep it short and simple. I came to operate because there's a lot of complaints for how expensive taxis are when people can't use Uber and Lyft. And I wanted to start a business where people could say good things about taxis and not have to say how, you know, they were late or charged outrageously. My father was a taxi driver in the city of Tampa, Florida, where I'm originally from. And when I moved here back in 1987, he started a business you may have remembered called Frosty Cup. It was an Italian ice. It was a mobile van, and it sold the best lemonade you could buy. Somebody who was here back then would remember it. He would pull up in car lots and had a bear on it, and it was green. Anyway, I want to follow in the footsteps of my father. He gave people a great product. And people liked it. And if you go to Google and you look at my business, there's almost 21 reviews and they're all five stars. And there's not one negative thing said about Payless Taxi. And I want to make the city of Fayetteville look good for taxis. I don't want them to look bad. And I don't want people leaving with a bad experience and are going to say something bad about their ride. I want to pull up in a nice vehicle. I know Uber and Lyft has came and it has caused a lot of controversy with competitors. And they're not happy with that. But to me, competition shouldn't be illegal. What should be illegal is hate and, and the discouragement to competition that's performing a legal quality service. And, uh, I came to do that. And I know I've had a lot of hateful harassment for trying to do that from competitors, but my number one goal is to serve the public with a professional service. And, uh, if that's, if that's accepted here today, uh, I pledge to you that's what I will do with full integrity. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have? Any questions? Mike or Deanna? All right, thank you. What public comment do we have on this? My name is Nathan Russell, and I don't want to use nobody else but Kyle. And I hope he gets his license where he can keep on driving for the taxi. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Yes, I'm Nora Nelson, and I've known Kyle for a lot of years. He used to work at Tyson Autry as a security, and I worked there. Anyway, he's a very pleasant man. He's easy to ride with. He doesn't cut everybody down like the others do, and his fare is real reasonable, and I'd accept him before anybody else. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I've also known Kyle, and he's not only respectable, but his car is not only clean, but it's the best rides. I've used Dynasty Taxi, and I've used other taxis and had a lot of issues with them. Some I will not say, but I've had a ton of issues, and there's no issues with him. He's really respected all over. Ma'am. Ma'am. She's the interdecessor. Could you state your name again for the record? Tamara Bull. thank you thank you who else forgot to address us on this come on now oops well i'm brian felino um i've used payless taxi myself before i started my own the he's a very good company polite and the rates are good i don't see any reason for uh denial on his permit tonight thank you thank you yeah good evening city council You have problems. There are a lot of felonies going on here. Could you introduce yourself, please? Yes, sir. Stuart Larrabee, Fayetteville Taxi. There are a lot of felonies going on here, including the paperwork you have right in your hands from Payless Taxi, showing no insurance, the incorrect insurance, and operating before he has had any authority. He has had no legal authority to operate. Therefore, he has had no viable insurance of any kind whatsoever. He has, from the county... a certificate of fictitious business name. That's it. That allows him to get a bank account or open up a square card. That's it. He has had no legal authority whatsoever to operate as a taxi or a car service anywhere. He has none with the state. He has none with federal, and he has none with you or any other city. He has been operating illegally for a year and a half just now by his own words. This has been an ongoing problem with him while he was even an Uber driver, he was operating illegally. These reports were not only by myself but many Dynasty and NWA taxi drivers who mysteriously NWA taxi is not even being addressed as being a taxi company yet they receive police calls every day from your police department, yet your police department is saying they don't exist. Well, they're here. In regards to all this, this has gotten out of control. There is a lot of covering going on, and there is one huge liability that is getting ready to hit over this whole mess of government officials here that have not done their job. And they are trying to cover up the felonies that they have been engaged in and are still engaged in. It is a clear crime by Arkansas statute to operate as a car service or a taxi service illegally. If you don't have the right insurance, if you don't have legal authority to operate, you have nothing. And he got kicked off of Uber for being under the influence. He came to me. He came to me whining and complaining about that and how unfair Uber was. Now, it's all recorded, folks. Everything he has ever said. I don't go anywhere without this recorder in my pocket for a decade, including him, him, and the police chief. Everybody. Everybody's got problems coming. Everybody. And what you did upstairs that you haven't told them, it's coming out, whether you like it or not, Mayor. It's coming out. Now. In regards to him, he was very clear on how he was kicked off for being under the influence. I offered him to go to the place that I would have to go to under any collision or anything else and get an immediate drug test. He refused three days in a row. He would not look at a drug test. He had already been operating illegally. He'd been reported to the police. He tried to cause fights with many NWA drivers, dynasty taxi drivers, which there are police reports for, and myself. And the police would do nothing about it. He was taking walk-ups with cash. This is all documented. And no one would do any enforcement. This is the city continually trying to turn a blind eye to all this because of their complicit behavior. Fault and failure to do anything about Uber when it came in operating illegally. And they're just going to continue it and try to bury it. The two people that have legal standing left are myself and NWA taxi. Original owners, legal before Uber or Lyft ever came into town. Now, this is a problem. You have the paperwork right in your hands from the police department saying you only have two taxi companies. Well, that's funny because NWA taxis have been around since 2007 and they still get police calls and they're still down here every day. So why is that happening? There's a whole host of people, including four Uber drivers that have been kicked off of their platform, or there's still Uber drivers that are illegally taking cash runs. You know, it's real obvious when you look at an Uber and there's a sticker on the side of the window that says we accept MasterCard, Visa, American Express and Discover, they don't need to swipe a card in their vehicle, whatever. It's plain. It's in your face, in plain sight of what's going on. There is no insurance whatsoever applicable under these conditions. None. Now I've got to pay about $10,000 a year for the correct insurance. $50,000 is not the correct insurance. He's advertising he's going to the casino and picking up there. Well, he only needs $1.5 million for that, and he ain't got it. This is out of control, people. This needs to be tabled. You have an option to avoid this liability, and I will meet with any of you, any of you, and go through all the details of what has happened, what is not being brought to your attention. You do not know what's going on in this whole mess, what the police department is intentionally covering up. There are, there is like a pretend. Time's up. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay. Well, I will. Yeah, come on up. Mr. Mayor, council. My name is Tim Reynolds. Me and my wife own Dynasty Taxi. The issue brought up here was a needs issue. And as the previous guys stated, you know, there's a lot of Uber and Lyft in northwest Arkansas now. At one point, we were running 15 to 17 cars at night. Now we run three, four at night. But our daytime business is really picked up. You know, we take care of a lot of people in the city of Fayetteville, city of Springdale. We cater to a lot of... elderly, handicapped, a lot of other things. Anyway, what I was getting at with that is as far as the needs go, we have cut our fleet back because of the lack of a need for more taxis. Insurance is a big thing. Last year we paid $47,000 just for 2018 taxi cab insurance. It's very expensive insurance. We keep everything up as we can. Now, I heard somebody saying something about all of their online reviews are positive. If you guys, if y'all are business owners, you would know that you can't make everybody happy. And the ones that are happy don't say anything. The ones that are going to complain are the ones that put everything online down. And that's, you know, and we've made our mistakes. Don't get me wrong. Sometimes people are not easy to please again. Anyway, we're not shying away from any type of competition. I heard him saying that he was going to run a cheaper cab service. Well, if you read the city ordinance, our rates are set by the city council. We can't charge more. We can't charge less. So the price is what it is, and this is from you guys. And we do wish at times, especially the really busy times when Uber does their surge pricing, is what they used to call it. I don't know what they call it now. Well, I was talking to one gentleman. He lives at Weddington and Ruppel, and he said it cost him $7 to get to Dixon Street from his house at 6 o'clock in the evening. At 2 a.m., that price goes up to around $60. Us, it would be $14 at 6 p.m., it would be $14 at 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. I mean, because our rates are set by y'all. So as far as running a cheaper one, I don't see how that's possible. But I would just like to thank the city of Fayetteville for your time and if anybody has any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Okay, any questions or anything? Thank you. Do you have one more? Yeah, hang on. So you're saying that you have to follow a set of rules. If the license was granted, wouldn't he have to follow those set of rules as well? Wouldn't that be beneficial to you all? Well, I mean, the rules are in place for a reason, and everybody should have to follow them. And that's one of the, you know, especially in the taxicab industry, that's one of the biggest issues. issues with Uber is they have a loophole where they say they're not a cab company, they say they're a technology company, but like I've told others, I could say that I ran a farrier service, but instead of shoeing horses, I pick people up and drop them off for a price. I'm a cab company. Well, Uber, Lyft, all of them, they pick people up and drop them off for a price. That's a cab company, no matter what you want to call it, that's what it is. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? All right. Any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to break back up. Come on up. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, council members. I'm, of course, listening to what the other gentleman said, and I'm here representing NWA Taxi. And certainly we have concerns because we think that Uber should have to meet the requirements of that all taxi companies do because it certainly makes an unlevel playing field. And, you know, taxis are required to be inspected. Everything's required to be inspected. And we just think at some point there needs to be some regulations regulating Uber or they should open up everything for taxis. Did you say Uber? I'm sorry, did I miss? No, I'm saying... At some point, the issue of the taxi companies not being regulated the same as Uber is an issue. Oh, I see. Thank you. Any questions? Oh, I'm sorry. Please introduce yourself. I'm sorry. You've got to introduce yourself. I'm Kenneth Morton. I'm an awful taxing attorney. Sorry, Kenneth. Thank you. I should have caught that. Anybody else? No, no. Everybody gets one turn at the back. Okay. Okay. Mike, I'm going to close with a public comment. Do you want to address any of the things that's been said about the ACM issues? You know, Bear, I don't really know where to begin other than I guess the one thing I will address is I checked with the supervisor, our sergeant who oversees the permitting. Prior to the meeting, I know my numbers check out with what Chief Tabor delivered at the agenda session. We only have Dynasty Taxi Service and Fayetteville Taxi that have current certificates of public convenience and necessity. So if Northwest Arkansas Taxi needs to be permitted, they need to come see us. Or we need to get this confusion ironed out as far as the third company that's been spoken about tonight. As far as any complaints that we had, the police department's investigated all complaints that we've had. Mr. Imsel, we've talked with him. We spoke with him on several occasions. He was operating Uber and Lyft. He was also operating his taxi business, dropping off customers in Fayetteville, also picking up customers in Fayetteville, which was in violation of an ordinance. He was cited for that. And through those discussions, we're trying to bring him into compliance with what our ordinances are here in Fayetteville. And that's why we're here today. But he was cited? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. uh thank you um how many times was he cited he was cited one time in december early december i don't remember the exact date and he was excited for not having the certificate of public convenience and necessity also for not being permitted as a taxi driver and not having his vehicle permitted as well so it was three violations of the city ordinance And do you all actually also review to see if he has insurance or not? Is that part of your review process? That's part of the review process. And in your packet, you'll see the insurance that he's provided to us, and we've looked into that. And like I said in my earlier statement, he meets all of the requirements of the application process for the ordinance tonight. And when he was operating earlier without a license, did you check to see if he had insurance at that time? I'm not sure if the officers checked at that time. That would be normal procedure and protocol whenever they make a traffic stop. I'm not sure whether or not he had the taxi cab insurance, liability insurance required, if he was operating within that or not. He was just out of compliance of the ordinance. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay. Any other questions or anything? Okay. MR TONER Okay. MR TONER Okay. Mr. Mayor, I should probably note that if someone is in violation of our ordinance, then that is an ordinance violation. It is not a felony. A felony is what can get you to prison. I used to be a prosecutor, sent a few people to prison, never sent anybody driving a cab improperly to prison. So even though some talk was that all these felonies were going on, that's not for violating the taxi cab ordinance because the only thing we can do there basically is fine somebody. Okay. What discussion do we have among the council? Yeah, I'm usually not a friend of asking the government to stop other businesses. If there were actual felonies, even giving this license would not retroactively remove any felonies that may or may not have happened. So that will obviously get taken care of. whether we approve this or not. So that's not too much of a concern of mine. I hope it's a concern of the police to make sure that, you know, they've done everything right. But approving the license or not, I don't see that, like, saying that those past issues are okay. And I definitely don't like restricting businesses. I believe in a fury market, so I want as many people to compete as possible. A lot of the complaints were about Uber and Lyft, and that's definitely something that I hope we look at at some point to kind of align the rules for the different players. That's not fair that different players have different rules. But that's not what we're discussing today. So thank you. And let me say the monkey on our back from Uber and Lyft was lifted by the state legislature when they took all power away from us and provided it, I think, to the Secretary of State. So we have no authority whatsoever to regulate Uber or Lyft in the city. Okay. Any other discussion? Okay. What do you all want to do? I mean, do you want a table? Do you want a pass? Sarah? Yeah. It seems to me that we have an entrepreneur who's really trying to get in compliance and do the right thing. And I agree with Council Member Scroggins in that we, you know, some more competition in this market is a good thing. I would move that we go ahead and approve the licenses. But I look forward to hearing other comments from the rest of the council. So we have a motion on the floor. Yes, so moved. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. We'll have a motion and a second. Any other discussion from the council? So you have the floor. Oh, oh, you have something to say or? Okay. Let's have a second. Any other public office or the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ingan? Yes. Squalgin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Okay. A resolution certifies to the tax collector of Washington County, Arkansas, the cost of raising and removal of the lactated and unsafe structure upon the property owned by Tommy Joe Flowers Davis and George E. Flowers, located at 16 North Willow Avenue in the city of Febble, Arkansas. Thank you, Mayor, Council. David Carver, the Code of Pines Administrator. November 8th, 2018, the Fayetteville City Council passed and approved resolution number 229-18. The resolution states that Tommy Joe Flowers Davis and George E. Flowers are hereby ordered to raise and remove the dilapidated, unsightly, and unsafe structure located at 16 North Willow. After approval, a grace period of 30 days was granted. for the property owner to acquire a building permit or raise and remove the structure themselves. On December 11th, 2018, code compliance raised and removed the unsafe structure. The cost associated with the raisin removal totaled $18,741, and this amount will be filed in the form of an abatement lien with the Washington County Tax Collector. I have a question here for you. You went out and examined the site after the raisin removal? Yes. And had the contractor done everything that you had contracted for him to do? Um, the only thing we're waiting on is some grass to get growing. It was kind of a bad time here, but it has been seeded and strawed as required by a demolition permit. So we're waiting for a little warmer weather. I did go by there this afternoon. There's some sprouts, but we're going to wait a little while to final that building permit to where the soil is completely stabilized. Okay, I looked at it myself and thought he'd done a good job and you can tell the or is it your opinion to the City Council this eighteen thousand dollars seven hundred forty one dollars is a fair amount for that raise and removal It's a steal. It's a great price Okay for a project of that size and as the City Council remembers the owners asked us to do this right here Okay, what questions do we have the council on okay, okay any public comment on this I Okay, I'm running back to the council. This is the wishes of the council. Kyle. I would motion that we approve the resolution. Senator. You second? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Senator Harris. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Robinson. Yes. Butch. Yes. Hart. Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay, thank you all. I'm moving along to new business. Resolution award. FPL bid package 19-17 and to approve change order number two to the construction manager at risk contract with Crossman Construction Company Incorporated in the amount of $2,806,481 for early site work and utility relocations and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $140,324. Thank you, Mayor and Council. This change order includes earthwork, utilities, storm drains, and fire line relocation. It enables an early start to the project while the balance of the drawings get completed. And with that, I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have to wait on this? This is all you want to, this is part of the package, right? Sure. All I'm going to say is this allows us to begin the site work for the library, so we're Anybody from the library want to make a comment or anything? Everybody good? All right. Does the council have any questions for anybody? Public. I'm going to get to that. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. And so, Sarah. Move we approve the resolution. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mark. No, I'm trying to get my second in here. Oh, sorry. My fault. I got it. No, it didn't. You mean put it in Mark? Possibly. I don't see it on the screen. I don't either. Thank you, Sandra. You're welcome. I think that's probably my fault. Okay. Any final comments? Here we go, Sandra. All right. If it's not Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ataris. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Froggen. Yes. Hutch. Yes. Park. Yes. Mann. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, an order is to waive requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of spare parts and repair services. for the thermal drying unit located at the biosolids management site from AIT Services Incorporated in the amount of $117,917.67 plus applicable taxes to approve a project contingency in the amount of $20,000 and to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding for future purchases of parts and repair services for the thermal drying unit from AIT Services Incorporated through December 31st, 2021. Whereas the thermal dryer located at the city's biosolids management site has helped save the city approximately $1 million in landfill costs and generated $48,500 in revenue through fertilizer sales to the public in 2018. and whereas a recent inspection identified stress damage to split bearings critical parts that support each end of the rotating drum and the replacement or repair of the bearings and other worn or failing components should extend the life of the dryer for up to five more years and whereas ait services incorporated is the sole provider of replacement parts for the thermal dryer now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of spare parts for the thermal drying unit located at BioSolids Management Site from AIT Services Incorporated in the amount of $117,917.67 plus APCL taxes. and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $20,000. Section 2 of the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that, because AIT Services, Inc. is the sole provider of replacement parts for the dryer unit, an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical for future purchases and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding through December 31, 2021. Thank you, Mayor and Council. As you can see, the thermal dryer works in conjunction with the solar drying houses to produce a stable fertilizer which we do sell to the public. Recently we did have some stress damage to the main shaft and some of the rotating parts. AIT did come in and assist us in repairing that and that's where you see the cost for the repairs. Also, we do keep spare parts on the shelf, but we have used them up and we need to renew this waiver. Also, all the parts need to be custom built, so it's a six or eight months lead time for any of these parts. So that's pretty much the gist of it. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Anybody good? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Okay, bring it back to the count. Mark? I move that we... Pass the ordinance. I've got to go to the second reading. I'll move to the second reading of the ordinance. Okay. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tara. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Hutch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of spare parts and repair services for the thermal and drying unit located at the biosolids management site from AIT Services, Inc., in the amount of $117,917.67 plus actual taxes, to approve a project contingency in the amount of $20,000, and to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding for future purchases of parts and repair services for the thermal drying unit from AIT Services, Inc., through December 31, 2021. Mark. I just wanted to say before we go to the third reading how important this is. Anytime that the thermal dryer is down, we're losing revenue and we're spending money on tipping fees and it's taking waste to the landfill. So these are big items. They're expensive items. They're custom-made items, so this is being more forward-thinking so that we will not have the downtime that we've experienced recently. And like I say, the importance is we sell the biosolids, and so we have a revenue stream, and by selling the – drying it and selling it, we're preventing biosolids from going into a landfill. So I move that we go to the third and final reading. MS. Sure. Sonja, would you please call the roll? The Terrace? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Minion? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Mann? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of spare parts and repair services for the thermal drying unit located at the biosolids management site from AIT Services Incorporated in the amount of $117,917.67 plus applicable taxes. to approve a project contingency in the amount of $20,000 and to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding for future purchases of parts and repair services for the thermal drying unit from AIT Services Incorporated through December 31, 2021. Okay. What kind of comments do we have in the council on this? Okay. Okay. Sandra, would you please call her up? Ataris? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Her? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to amend the standard specification for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines, 2017 edition as originally adopted in 173.12 standard specifications. Water and sewer lines in chapter 173, building regulations of the unified development code and to move the amended regulations to chapter 51, water and sewers. Whereas pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 14-55-207, the City may adopt by ordinance, technical codes, regulations or standards without including the full text of the regulations in the City Code. And whereas on October 17, 2017, by ordinance 60-03, the City may adopt by ordinance, technical the fable city council adopted the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2017 edition which updated a previous version to incorporate changes to the city's regulations recommended by city staff and the arkansas department of health and contained the engineering seal of the city utilities engineer jim beavers and whereas upon mr beaver's retirement which is scheduled for january 31st 2019 and actually has already happened His engineering seal will be void and city staff recommends modifying the standard specifications to remove his seal, which will require engineers on future utility projects to independently review and seal the standard specifications for each new project submitted to the city for review. And where our city staff also recommends moving the regulations from Chapter 173 Building regulations in the favor unified development code to chapter 51 water and sewers because the regulations pertain more to public works than to private development and Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby removes the standard specifications for water and sewer lines from Section 173.1 of the Unified Development Code and recodifies them in Chapter 51, Waters and Sewers, at Article 6, Standard Specifications, Section 51.170, Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines. Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby amends the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines, 2017 edition, as recommended by the Utilities Director, and attaches in the packet included with this enacting ordinance by removing the seal of the Fayetteville Utilities Engineer Jim Beavers' and modifying the language in subsection 102 requirements and 201 engineering seal and certification of section 0001 certification and statement and the language in subsection 1.01 general of section 1000 general requirements to remove all references to the ceiling of the standard specification by any city of Fayetteville engineer okay Tim Thank you, Mayor. This is basically an administrative move on the standard specs. It was last modified in 2017, as Kit said, and it was stamped by the utilities engineer at the time with his stamp. Since his retirement, we've worked with the health department, and the way it will go from this point on is the engineer of record for a specific project will stamp the project and the standard specs will be incorporated into that project. So this will not slow up any of our development, any of our work. And we're also removing it from the building code into the sewer use ordinance, where it certainly should be. Are you happy to answer any questions? Okay. Kyle. Tim, is that the changing who reviews and seals for each project? Is that a city staff person or is that a contractor's engineer? Whose responsibility does that become now? Well, I guess it's a combination of more than one. It is the responsibility of the engineer of record, which could be a private engineer, to make sure that the project is satisfying all the requirements. It's also a utilities engineer to take a look at the project to make sure that it satisfies all the requirements. And as it goes through the planning process, the city engineers also look at everything around the project. So is there a cost burden associated with that review that doesn't exist now? There's not one that doesn't exist now. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Any other questions for Tim? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. This is an opportunity for me to mention that Jim Beavers was a very valuable member of the administration in the water and sewer division. And it was a bittersweet day when you see someone like that retire. if people only knew the amount of Work that it was produced by this individual and it was specific and it was always right on target and it was so invaluable for the Function and compliance in our water and sewer division. So I wanted to just say a little shout out to mr Beavers for the work that he's done and it'll be sad that his name is not on the seal because his name is on so many projects that have been so important here in our city so i move that we go to the second reading sir i will uh echo uh my colleagues comments about mr beavers and second that motion well said all right we have a motion second to go to the second reading sundry would you please call the roll the terrace yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes In order to amend the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines, 2017 edition, as originally adopted in Section 173.12, standard specifications for water and sewer lines in Chapter 173, building regulations of the Unified Development Code, and to move the amended regulations to Chapter 51, water and sewers. Okay. Mark. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sonya, would you please call the roll? Good Terrace. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Batch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. In order to amend the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines, 2017 edition, as originally adopted in Section 173.1.2, Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines, in Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code, and to move the amended regulations to Chapter 51, Water and Sewers. Okay. Final comments do we have from counsel on this? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Groggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Park. Yes. Man. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6462 for approximately .35 acres located at 3030 Old Farmington Road from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from R.A. Residential Agricultural to R.S.F. 8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre, Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, which I hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Yes, Mayor and Council, this parcel is located north of Old Farmington Road, just west of its intersection of its one-mile road. It's presently occupied with one single-family home. It is about .35 acres. The present district would require two acres, so it's a nonconforming use. The surrounding parcels are zone RSF 8 and RA to the west and across Farmington, RSF 4. The adoptive plans show residential neighborhood area. It encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density where appropriate. Issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission were drainage and density issues. The requested zoning would open the possibility of two homes on that parcel. The drainage of the bar ditch on Old Farmington and the culverts would have to be sized appropriately. Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for staff? Is the applicant here? Yes, please. Would you like to address the council? My name is Peggy Will Banks and my husband and I just bought this property just in, I mean it was up for sale and we knew the owner. I'm really asking to rezone it just so that we have more options with the existing home that's on there. Okay. Any questions from the council to the staff or the owner? All good? All right. What public comment do we have on that? All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Thank you. I know we're on the first reading, so I'm going to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second. But I just want to note that the proximity of this to Centennial Park and our future multi-use trail network is just, this is a great place to put additional density, and it's within walking distance of goods and services. So I'll be supporting this rezoning. But I want to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. I don't have there we go Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes And the ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 18-64-62, for approximately .35 acres, located at 3030 Old Farmington Road, from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Okay. Second. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Marv. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fetch? I believe my fellow council member here had a question. I'm sorry, did I miss that? Yes. Well, when we do that. Okay. Sorry. Well, let's see. I'll say yes. And I'll say no. Okay. Is it my turn? Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay. All right. Okay. Let me read it, and then she can ask questions. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6462 for approximately 0.35 acres located at 3030 Old Farmington Road from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 8 Residential Single Family, eight units per acre. it's my fault i didn't say it on the screen so i i just think that we should allow another reading of this um you know this is a rezoning and maybe the public doesn't know about it and i just think we should slow down on that a little bit so that's why i'm i'm asking that That we don't go to the third and final reading, but it looks like we're already there. Well, you can move to take correct. That's right. The option now, if you didn't want to have a vote, would be a motion to table, which requires a vote of the majority of the city council to table it. Well, I guess I won't make that motion. To table it. But I do want to say that I really think that we should slow down a little bit on these rezonings and give the public and the residents more time to know that they're on the agenda where they may have some comments or some concerns. Okay. All right. Any other final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Mattaris? No. Marsh? Yes. Mignon? Yes. Petty? No. Yes. Batch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Okay. So that passed with a vote of five in favor. Is that correct? That's correct. All right. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6464 for approximately 1.16 acres located at 2081 North Shady Avenue from C2 Thrift Fair Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services. General, Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 and at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the properties on the map exhibit A and illegal description exhibit B both attached to the planning Department's agenda memo from C2 thoroughfare commercial to NSG neighborhood services general Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. OK, go on. The original request was to RSF for The applicant had going through a fairly extensive process earlier some some time ago to try to develop this parcel and as you can see it's kind of caught on between a lumberyard on the north and the railroad track and Greg Avenue on the east, Poplar's down here, and it has some unimproved asphalt roads to the parcel. The cost of improving the access for commercial development was prohibited, so they requested rezoning it from the C2 to the RSF4. The Planning Commission recommended that it be zoned Community Services Limited. Community Services Limited is the counterpart form-based zone to C2, has basically the same uses plus residential uses. The adopted plans, it's designated as the city neighborhood area, recommends appropriate infill of a variety of uses, residential and non-residential, in the plan, so the Proposed zoning is consistent with that designation. No issues were identified at the Planning Commission level, and the Planning Commission and staff recommend approval of the Planning Commission's recommendation. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Right back to the council. Okay. So what discussion do we have? Screen stuck. We're having a few glitches tonight, aren't we? Is the applicant here? Okay. Is the applicant here? Anyone want to say something? Okay. I'm not getting anything. And so? If you don't suspend the rules, we'll just leave it on this meeting. Let's just go back to the old way we used to do things. What's the wishes of the council here? Sure. Yes, please. I move just to amend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. All right. We have a motion to second from Sloan and Mark. You were the seconder. Okay. Sonia, you got all that? No. All right. Well, okay. Sloan Scroggins and Mark Keenan. Okay. Hang on. Is there – who's working on the machinery here tonight, Susan? Do you know? I'm going to find Keith. It's kind of – It's showing on the screen. Oh, that's the last one. It won't let me put the approved in. It won't let you put approved in? It won't let me put the vote in. That's why I didn't see it. Can we go back and see about that? No, I don't want to do that either. I think we'll get an IT to come in. Okay, well, let's hold up on the vote until we see who's going to win. Is it Liston, Scroggins, and I'm going to take this one. All right. I sure can if you all want to do that because I can do it like I used to do it around here. Is that good with everybody? All right. Well, we got Keith in here to help. All right. Well, we got Sloan in. Did the motion mark you have second right? We have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? A terrace. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. And nor does rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6464 for approximately 1.16 acres located at 2081 North Shady Avenue. From C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay. If anybody wants to talk, raise your hand, get my attention. Teresa. I'd really like to hold it on this reading because, again, I just think something this significant as a rezoning needs to have adequate public notification and recognition. And so I'd like to – that's all I need to say. Okay. Sure. All right. Chair. Anybody else? Yes. I know one of my first meetings I asked us to hold something. The reason I held it is it was turned down at the planning commission level and then appealed and there was no new mechanism for the citizens to know that it was coming before us. However, these have a two week notice before the planning commission at a minimum. they can table it and then it comes to us several weeks later so it's generally a signs been up for at least six plus weeks so if we don't have any citizens here and Planning Commission approved it I'm usually ready to go ahead and vote on it mr. mayor yes I believe also don't rezoning skip publishing the paper and Do they get put in the paper as well? Yes. So those are our standard mechanisms of being on the city, I guess, website, agendas, and then in the newspaper, those are our standard mechanisms too. And you do send out a letter to the neighbors, the neighboring properties? Yes. We notify the surrounding neighbors, the adjacent neighbors, and across the public right-of-way is considered adjacent. for the Planning Commission's hearing. Okay. And at the Planning Commission, it's assumed that they're followed on to the City Council. Okay. All right. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Conversations? Okay. All right. So we either need to have a motion to go to the next reading or else we're just going to go to the next item. Yes. All right. I actually made it on the computer now. Okay, I see it. Now we're up and running again. All right, Sloan. So I moved to suspend the rules. What? I'm sorry. Are you all getting all this? Okay. All right, so Sloan, you're making a motion to go to the third and final reading. And Sarah? I will second that. Okay, we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Are you not seeing that, y'all? Mr. Wrong is still coming to the next one. Yes. This is... There we go. This is not... That's correct up there. We've got a swan. Oh, she's catching up. All right. All right, we're ready, I think. Are you ready? Yeah. The chairs? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Sagan? Yes. Yes. Bunch? Yes. Park? No. Smith? No. That's five votes in favor. It takes six votes to pass a motion to suspend the rule. So, Mayor, you can vote if you please. What ward is this in? Ward 2. Ward 2. Okay. I'm going to vote yes. Okay, then the motion passes, and I'll read the ordinance. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6464 for approximately 1.16 acres located at 2081 North Shady Avenue from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. All right. What final comments do we have in the council? Sarah. Okay. Thank you. You know, both the Planning Commission and staff are recommending approval. It's consistent with the future land use plan and we're going from a C2, which is not a form-based zone, to a zone that is form-based. So I think that has a lot of advantages in this situation. I think if this were a little more complicated issue, that it would make a lot of sense to hold it. But this one is pretty straightforward. So I'll be voting yes. Okay, Mark. I haven't heard anything from anyone in the ward, and looking at the property and knowing it well, I think that this is a good rezoning to offer the opportunity to go to a form-based code, and it's going to offer the opportunity for some expanded services. So I am supporting this. Okay, Tom. Yeah. Well, I want to take an opportunity to express some appreciation to the Planning Commission for seeing an RSF4 coming through and suggesting this change. I've done the math on that before for us all. And this is not nearly a large enough property to have a big impact in the overall annual growth footprint that we talk about. But it adds up over the entire city. Seeing us not putting a low density residential right in the middle of town. I appreciate that and I Hope that they will will keep up the the watchdog effort on those as they come through. I will be supporting this one. Okay Yes Can we get the map back? Is that possible? What I was looking at is just you know, it's all work work Greg Street, right? Yes major thoroughfare and what's industrial that's just north of it. You know, I would like to see a lot of public transportation through there. There could be a lot of really exciting things that could happen there. I don't see a lot of adjacent, you know, residences that would be a major, cause major problems with that. So I will go with the recommendation of the staff and planning commission and be supporting this. Okay. Okay. Me? Sure. I did want to say, when Sonia mentioned about the public transportation, I know the U of A bus runs down Gregg and I believe also on Poplar, and I'm not sure which routes they are, but there is U of A public transportation there. And it's also not too far from their cycling and pedestrian – access the trail runs on the other side of it and it's pretty pretty handy for that as well so that's i'll be in favor of it as well all right sonny you're up yeah okay anybody else All right Before we call the roll I would ask the City Council if if you're going to vote against the rezoning and and it might fail in other words There's enough council members. It looks like it might not pass I would appreciate if the people would explain a little bit of their reasons You might be in detail, but just something so that in case it does fail that we have something I could present To court if we get challenged Okay Any final comments? Okay. Sonja, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry. Get her mixed up. Pateras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Butch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number six, in order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 18-6472 for approximately 0.42 acres located at 3033 and 3035 West Sanders Street from RA Residential Agriculture to RSF. Eight residential, single family, eight units per acre. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to R.S.F. 8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Mayor, back to the neighborhood where we were, Old Farmington, One Mile Road, similar request, the RA to RSF 8. This request is abounded not only by C2 zoning, but is also there's a pharmacy and a bank immediately adjacent. The adopted plan, again, it's residential neighborhood area. Again, it encourages a variety of residential building types. increased density were appropriate no issues were identified at the Planning Commission and Planning Commission and staff recommend approval be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have from the City Council Okay. Yes. So can you help me understand more on the agricultural versus the single family? I mean, so agriculture, nothing at all can happen there? I mean, that's... No. It's a residential agricultural district. This is nonconforming because the district requires two acres. It's kind of a remnant RA district that is located right in this area. There are additional houses that are nonconforming right in that location. There's a planned zoning district for the higher density development on Farmington. And then there's some more fragmented zoning in this area. I hesitate to mention this because it probably could cause some more work for our department right now. But as I become more familiar with Fayetteville, there is a need to do a comprehensive evaluation of our zoning districts sometime in the future. Usually most communities undertake that effort after they update their plan. So hopefully that's completed by June. It's just something that there are many other things that may be on your agenda that are ahead of that, but it is certainly something that is quite obvious. There are so many fragments, and then we get fragmented requests that are a little hard to respond to. Okay. All right. You're still on the floor. I mean, okay. All right. What public comment do we have tonight? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. No. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I will second that. Pateras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Cloggin? Yes. Batch? Yes. Tart? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 18-6472 for approximately... point 42 acres located at 3035 and 3033 West Sanders Street from our a residential agriculture jars a residential single-family eight units per acre oh well I mean we should just bid the rules and go to the third reading I would request that we hold it here because it is a rezoning request Well, you don't need to table it. It's either left on the second reading. If the motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading is defeated, it requires six votes to pass that because that's an unusual motion, so it requires two-thirds vote. A motion to table would require simply a majority vote. So if six persons vote, six aldermen or the mayor vote... then that would pass, but you would not have enough to table if you moved the table because it takes fewer votes to stop a motion to suspend the rules than it does to pass a motion to table. And so really, at this point, the motion to table is probably not in order. Okay. So what we have, we have a motion, a second vote, a third, and a final reading, but it's going to require six votes. That's right. Let's start with that one. Son, would you please call the vote? But the request of the council member or members from that board is to hold, correct? I want to be sure. It's Ward 1. It's Ward 1. Oh, is it Ward 1? Sorry. So, all right. All right. Something that you please call. Guterres. No. Marsh. Yes. Ingen. Yes. Grogan. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Hart. No. Smith. No. And that motion failed. Okay. See you next time. So I was just left on the second reading. All right. Number seven. I notice that some of that property is driving zone at Kishon, RZN 18-6409 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 28.7 west of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre and NC, neighborhood conservation, to RMF12, residential multifamily 12 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. I am missing a presentation. So, I'm good. I'm good. I got to do a soft shoe then. Yeah. I can find it in about four minutes or I'm good without it. I have notes. This is a vacant parcel flat land south of Weddington, and it's between 46 and Broyles. The request is to facilitate a mixed density residential development. There are a mixture of zoning districts surrounding this property. It is RO to the north. It is RS-18 and RS-4 to the east. their community services and neighborhood conservation to the west. And it is RS4 to the south, and to the south is a developed residential neighborhood. The adopted plans, it is designated residential neighborhood in the plan. And it is included in the Weddington Quarter illustrative plan. and there are a variety of housing types and a neighborhood park illustrated. This application is in the interior of that block. It doesn't front 46th Street. It doesn't front Weddington. The commercial or office or mixed-use opportunities are more on north of this site. The Weddington plan recommends a variety of residential densities for this particular site and the RSF-12 is different from the NC, neighborhood conservation in that respect. The RSF-12 allows single family, duplex, triplex, fourplex and apartments while the NC, which is the majority of district that is requested, that's the present zoning, Only allow single family by right. With that, I'll search for the map if you have any questions. Okay. Student's got the map. I brought it up out of the packet, and I'm looking for you to push. What should I push? Step. Let's see. You can fill in the time here. I might. Okay. I can find it go to www.fable-ar.gov We're getting there. Won't take but a second. Can we just talk about kind of the intersections with people? Okay, so we're talking about Weddington and then off of Weddington, 46th Avenue, going way out. West and then Luttrell, which is one block, um, that would be South of Weddington. So Weddington 46 and Luttrell. Uh, while we're trying to figure that out, I realized I've been sitting over here on the end acting kind of schizophrenic with the votes to, to, uh, suspend rules and move on. So, uh, I'm going to ask to keep this one on the first, whether we find the map or not. And, uh, I'm just going to throw that out there to get this started while we're looking for it. But just to kind of put it in context of the three before it, I was at the planning commission meeting the night that these ran and there were people from the other three there. They had their public notice and they knew about it. Nobody from this one was at that one because there's only one, maybe two residences surrounding it that would have gotten the direct notification. Most of the adjoining property owners here are other vacant fields. I have since this went out gotten a couple of. pieces of feedback from the neighborhood bits of concern so the Applicant has already agreed to come to our next work for meeting and visit with us about it So I know he hadn't had his turn at the mic yet, but while we're killing time I just thought I'd throw all that out there for you My name is 34 he was civil design engineers and And just as far as the notifications go, we did send out notifications across 46th Street. So it was more than just the surrounding of that little area that we're rezoning. The reason for the request is to allow us to do it as one development instead of neighborhood conservation. You can do... four units in a building, but they have to be on one lot. So you basically have to do a plat before you can even start building. So doing it as one development, you can do the infrastructure construction and the building construction concurrently. That's the biggest benefit for us. Any questions? Let's not be commenting again. Okay, so we're going to leave it. We're going to leave it as your sexual activity. It's your work. I don't know what to do. I would like to, too. It's bigger. Almost eight acres. Yeah. Okay. Number eight. Whereas the city council has the authority under ACA 1454 and 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed portion of the street right-of-way is not required for public purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number 2... This vacation shall have no effect on the easements in favor of Black Hills Energy, which are recorded in the Office of Circuit Clerk and the ex-official recorder for Washington County, Arkansas, as instrument numbers 2018-35003, 2018-35002, and 2018-34944. Mayor, this vacation request is for a remnant of Rebecca Street. This is Vincent Avenue. This is Rockwell and Sequoia on top of the mountain. Earlier City Council vacated half of this fragment here for that went to the adjacent property owners to the south. Now the four property owners now three on the north and one on the south are Requesting the vacation of the rest of the right away It's You could see the configuration of the request right here. This this part was vacated earlier they're asking for the vacation of the remainder of this fragment and The existing end of Rebecca Street ends right here before it drops off precipitously. There are sections right in this location that are up to 30% slow. Issues that have been identified that were discussed at the agenda committee and Council Member Petty sent me an email since then. I think he sent it to you. examples of creative uses of traditional grids. The street can't be built to our standards anywhere close, and Chris Brown can address that with that particular grade. The question was, would it be useful for a residential connection? And I did talk to our trails and residential coordinator. The... The plan to create a sidewalk to the top of Sequoia Mountain is to use assembly or, and I can show you, either rock wood or assembly. Both have been scored recently in our scoring system. The assembly proposal scores highly. The preference would be for that to be the future sidewalk construction project at the top of Sequoia. The problem with this, it would be an interesting project, but you'd have to do lots of switchbacks to meet ADA requirements to get up that grade. And it would be a very expensive project. And it still wouldn't connect. a broad area because this isn't constructed either, Rebecca Street South. So I think it's an interesting idea, but in this case, I think the interruption of the grid is justified. I've dealt with a number of these in other communities and usually always err on the side of preserving the historic grid, but I think this is an exception to it. And the Planning Commission and staff recommend approval with the conditions. Okay. Sarah? Can we go back to Matt, please? Sure. Thank you. I, too, was ‑‑ I enjoyed looking at Councilmember Petty's email he sent of the different examples of urban staircases. And this is something I've suggested a number of times in our Active Transportation Advisory Council meetings. because there are not a lot of good ways to get up mount sequoia and and while i agree the assembly route is much needed in order to reach the mount sequoia assembly we still have a lot of residents on rockwood trail and up in those neighborhoods that do not have a safe route to go walking um What is the status of the portion of Rebecca Street that's unbuilt just to the west of this across Benson? Do we still have a public right-of-way there? Yes, we do. I would like to hold this on this rating so that the Active Transportation Advisory Committee could take a look at that and just make sure that that's not something we'd want to pursue in the future before we cede this public right-of-way. Okay. And this is in Ward 1. Okay. I would concur on holding this this week. This is kind of a big decision You only get to make once you don't get it get to come back and take it back to change your mind I do have a couple questions though That's kind of mull over in the weeks until we hear it again that we do a lot of vacation of easements Where a private property owner owns the land and we just have access Rights to it. How is this? different being a right-of-way? I mean, there's not an underlying landowner. Do I understand that correctly? I'm sure there probably is an underlying landowner. A right-of-way is not only for utility easements, but it's also for pedestrian or vehicular access. So you have more rights. The city has more rights in a right-of-way to put other things there. Sure. But it's not city property outright? Probably not, you know, unless I can't say that 100%. Normally these have been dedicated through plats, paper plats oftentimes, and there's lots of this all over town where it probably makes sense if you look at the paper, but not when you look at the ground. But you know, it can be used for other things. And so, I mean, I'm not arguing against holding it here or anything, but it's probably not city property. It's just a city right-of-way over private property, and that's why when you vacate it, it goes usually to the abutting owners. Would it be possible to get a clarification on that? Well, yeah, I mean, my office wouldn't do that, but you could have GIS or somebody research the title. We take care of that. Okay. There is a gas line. It is used for a gas line, and the planning commissioner's recommendation was to retain those easements. So it was the recommendation was to vacate it, and that condition is written in your proposed ordinance. So in that situation, even then it wouldn't be buildable because of the utility easements? But then you would just hold a utility easement. Okay. I think if you want to use it for a sidewalk or for transportation purposes, it may not be wise to vacate it. Okay. Okay. uh does the there's also a paper alley behind there that's connected to it does that cause any sort of um i mean i guess how does that interact with it um i'm not sure paper rally is there not a a long parallel to vincent behind that row of of houses or on the map it looks like there's a strip of i'm looking at the in the packet it's a satellite map with the parcel outlines ah it's not on the outlines aren't on that map i see i i don't see it okay we'll we'll research it and get you an answer thanks okay so i just want to um support sarah's uh recommendation to take it back to active transportation and this is in ward one i think that sounds like a great idea to me so i'd like to Hold it. Good. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back. I understand you all want to hold it here. Hold it two weeks. We'll come back again, see what we got. Going to take it to active transportation, I understand. Okay. Good? All right. Yes, Chris? Just quickly, there is an active transportation committee meeting tomorrow night, so we could put it on that agenda. Well, we could. Let's do that. Yeah. That may be the most successful thing I get done tonight. All right. All right. So let's move on to number nine then, an ordinance to approve vacation 18... That's 6475 property located at 3024 North Oat Bailey Road to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions of the area which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following prescribed portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense." Okay, Gardner. Yeah, Mayor, this is a simple five-foot portion of a 20-foot utility easement that is all on one property. There's a home that was constructed in 1985. We looked at this subdivision and there were blanket easements planted routinely at the property line. Gardner, can you maximize your screen, please, so we can see this a little bigger? Yeah, that better? Thank you. And maybe zoom in, please. It's just really tiny. Control plus, she said. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's a wonderful thing. Always needs some technical help. All the responding utilities responded that they did not need this particular five-foot easement, and Planning Commission staff is recommending approval. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? So. Okay. You said there's multiple of these? Yes. Yes, there are a number of similar. This particular plant had a number of easements at the property line in case they were needed. This one is needed, but the full 20 foot isn't needed. The request is for five feet. Okay, so this is the only one that you felt that needed to be removed and all the other ones are still needed well You're responding to a request This isn't a research of all the easements in the neighborhood. It's simply responding to a Request from this particular property owner to vacate this utilities, but okay, okay any other questions All right, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, I? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Chair. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Simone. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Terrace. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Park. Yes. Nance. Yes. And orders to approve VAC 18-6475 for property located at 3024 North Oak Bailey Road to vacate a portion of utility easement. Okay. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Swan. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? It is. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Park. Yes. Mann. Yes. And your ordinance to approve VAZ 18-6475 for property located at 3024 North Oak Bailey Road to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Okay. Sloan. Sorry. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Sonja, would you please call the roll? Pateras. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ingan. Yes. Roggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turt. Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay. Moving right along. Number 10. Number 10. An ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville in 2019 with the amount to be paid by the City not to exceed $61,721.00. Whereas since 1998, the City of Fayetteville has participated in a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for the operation and maintenance of urban stream gauging stations to record data concerning rainfall and runoff. And whereas in 2015, the city modified its agreement with USGS to begin monitoring major pollutants at Town Branch and Mud Creek, and the city will continue this monitoring to provide more accurate information regarding pollutants leaving the city at these points. And whereas the proposed 2019 program would remain unchanged from 2018, and whereas the USGS which purchased and installed the monitoring equipment at no cost to the City provides these services at a cost much lower than the City could receive from any other provider. Now therefore it being ordained by the City Council the City of Fable-Arkshaw Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements for competitive bidding and approves a joint funding agreement, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance and made a part hereof, between the City of Fayetteville and the U.S. Geological Survey for Stream Gauge Operation and Maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville in 2019 with the amount paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $61,721. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I think that covers it pretty well. Just a couple things to add. The USGS, they go out and they pull samples at various times during storm events, et cetera. They also maintain all the data. It is available on their website. And that information is included in your packet. So you can go to those links and see that information. The cost of this is split between a water quality capital improvement project that is managed by the engineering division and 50-50 with the water and sewer fund. So we split that cost. And with that, I'll answer any questions. Questions we have for Chris on this. Anybody good? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, seeing none, bring it back to the council. Mark. I want to mention how important this is for us to have this data, especially if they're a review of ADQ or EPA standards. And this has been real helpful for us in the past. And it's been a longstanding relationship that has always provided us with data. that is incredibly important in future project planning as well as looking at historical data. So that's why we need to continue this, and I certainly move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Sarah? Second. Okay. We've got a motion and a second to go to the second reading. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Okay. And ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville in 2019 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Sonia. I move that we go to the third final reading. Please, sir. I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Would the seconder please put their motion in? Okay. There we go. All right. Would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Roggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville in 2019 with the amount to be paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Okay. Sonia. Yes, I think this is a really excellent cost that we're going to get for what we're to be more accountable, ecologically accountable. So that is a very good thing and I want us as a city to be like that and to get a great deal doing it. So I will be voting for this. I agree. This is actually a really good deal. USGS has a lot of monitoring stations across the state and the country, and so they really are the experts on this. And, in fact, if we need, after our stormwater review, if we need more stations, I think we should consider partnering with them in the future if it's needed. So I will definitely support this. All right. Anybody else? Teresa, go ahead. Sonia We're ready to vote Okay Sonia would you please call the roll Sonia Sorry Marsh Yes Betty Yes Yes Number 11 Resolution to amend the 2019 adopted budget by reappropriating $100,186,000 in bonded or ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations, and grant-funded items. Paul. Good evening. What this is is actually part of the annual budget process. The statutes in the state of Arkansas, which there are many states like this, does not allow multi-year budgeting. In other words, you can budget only for one year. Your budget ceases to exist at the end of that year. So in November, we bring forward the operating budget plus any new capital that we have for the 2019 budget. However, we have a large amount of monies, appropriations that have not yet been completed. Those are normally in one of four areas. We might have a contract that hasn't been completed or paid. We might have bond money that hasn't been spent in this particular case, over $25 million for the library fund that needs to be rebudgeted. We also have money for grants. And certain forfeitures that have not been spent yet that are legally ours. And the largest part is $65 million in this proposal that are CIP projects that have been carried forward that are uncompleted. Like I said. Arkansas doesn't have multiple year budgeting. Unfortunately we can't begin and end our year all at one time. We have to carry these things forward. This is $400 million. It takes our budget to $268 million, which is roughly what last year's was. It's actually $2 million less than last year. It's a large amount of money. However, all of these have been approved as CIP projects, grant acceptance. or approved before by the council. So with that said, I'll be happy to answer if you have any questions. Okay, what questions do we have? Okay, a public comment that we have on this. Okay, right back to the council. Sir? I move we approve the resolution. Mark? I second that. We have a motion and second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mark? No, I'm sorry. All right. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bench. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Mayer. Yes. Okay, number 12. Okay. In ordinance to amend Article 9, Telecommunications Board and Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the City Code to change the name to PEG Advisory Board, reduce the number of members, and refocus the purpose and intent of the board to advising the City Council on issues related to the City's public access, educational, and government PEG channels. Kip. Whereas because of the evolving law in the area of telecommunication and digital access, city staff recommends refocusing and narrowing the Telecommunication Board's advisory role to the city's public access, education, and government channels known as PEG. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Article 9 from Telecommunications Board to PEG Advisory Board and amends each instance of Telecommunications Board that appears in Article 9 to PEG Advisory Board. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Favillard, which I hereby repeals the first paragraph of Section 33.205, purpose and intent, and an actual replacement paragraph as follows, quote, It is the purpose and intent of the City Council of the City of Fayetteville to define the scope of the PEG Advisory Board to advise the City Council on issues related to public access, educational, and government PEG television use in the City of Fayetteville. Section 3. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal Section 33.206, Composition, and Enact and Replacement Section 33.206 as follows. The Fayetteville PEG Advisory Board shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council. Members should have experience in one or more of the following areas. television, television content development, television network infrastructure management, and public policy development, or other appropriate expertise. All members shall serve staggered four-year terms. Members with terms expiring in 2019 shall continue to serve until the end of their terms, but those positions shall not thereafter be filled. Section 4 that the City Council the city of favor larger hereby amends the last section of subsection a in section 33 point 209 procedures by reducing the quorum requirement from 4 to 3 So that now reads as follows three members shall constitute a quorum Section 5 that the City Council city of Favreau hereby repeal section 33 point 201 duties and renex or replacement section 33 point 201 as follows a a or subsection a the peg advisory board shall advise the city council and city administration on issues related to the local access peg channels including but not limited to the following one use of cable tv channels designed for or designated for public access education and governmental use the peg channels Subsection 2, use of the city's television production and telecasting facility as it is used for reducing or telecasting public access educational or government programming. 3, any reports submitted to the city by a PEG channel operator. 4, funding for the public access educational and governmental television operations. Subsection B, the PEG Advisory Board shall have the following duties and responsibilities. 1, 2, Review the administration of the city's television production and telecasting facility to review the administration of any cable television channels or other designated for public access educational or governmental television use Unless the City Council enters into a contract with another entity or institution for such administration If the city enters into a contract with another entity for administration of a big channel and Peggy advisory board shall ensure contract compliance and Whether administered by the City or contracted, the PEG Advisory Board shall advise City staff on policies regarding programming content selection, viewer and facility user complaint feedback practices, and other such policies regarding the use of the channels. Ensure that the peg channel operators are providing effective and timely customer service number four promote public awareness use and viewership of the peg channels subsection C The Peggy advisory board shall have the authority to establish and disseminate such guidelines and regulations for itself as are necessary to carry out The duties and responsibilities set forth in this section. Okay. Well, good evening Doug Bankston director of media services Mr. Williams kind of said a lot about this, but this item is mainly to clear up some confusion that's been occurring with the Telecommunications Board and what it can do since the state of Arkansas went to statewide cable franchising. Franchising is handled by the state and rights of way issues surrounding telecommunications is now handled by Planning Commission and Council through city ordinances. And this item refocuses the Telecommunications Board, narrows it so it can handle the public access education and government channel operations and hopefully clear up the confusion that Telecommunications Board and the telecommunications issues that are vaguely described in the current Article 9. Most board members and people interested in telecommunications board are not clear about The way we're starting to operate now goes well beyond cable TV channels We've got YouTube the this meeting's live streamed on the proprietary system does does the language in here cable TV channels feel inclusive enough to cover all the kind of modern modes of media consumption it does it's covering all methods of how our channels are delivered thank you the whole operation okay any other questions I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? The Terrace. Yes. Arch. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Broggan. Yes. Munch. Yes. Hurst. Yes. Sam. Yes. An ordinance to amend Article 9 of Telecommunications Board in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, and Commissions and Authorities of the City Code to change the name to Peg Advisory Board. reduce the number of members and refocus the purpose and intent of the board to advising the City Council on issues related to the city's public access educational and governmental channels Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Second we have motion second to go to the third and finally please call Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Article 9, Telecommunications Board in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities of the City Code to change the name to PEG Advisory Board, reduce the number of members and refocus the purpose and intent of the board to advising the City Council on issues related to the City's public access, educational and governmental channels. Final comments from Council. Kyle. That ship sailed and we're on the last reading, but I should have asked this way tonight's going. Doug, all these edits, did they, the current configuration of the board, did they get to review these? They've already reviewed and they approved the changes of Article 9. The Article 9, what you see before you, was modeled after municipalities and townships in states that have statewide franchising. We kind of took the best language. But they were involved in that conversation. They were involved with it and they voted and approved. All right, thanks. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other final comments or questions? All right. So would you please call the roll? Good Terrace? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ingan? Yes. Roggin? Yes. Hatch? Yes. Park? Yes. Nance? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number 13, a resolution to recognize the opioid academic in the United States of America and in Arkansas to engage in litigation against those entities and people responsible for the societal crisis. Kit. MR. Well, Mayor, as you and the council know, former council member Adele Gray was very interested in this particular issue. The Arkansas Municipal League has organized virtually all of the cities that have hired it to handle its defense in their criminal defense program or civil defense program. Unfortunately, in order for us to join with the Municipal League in hiring this or retaining this other lawyer out of Birmingham, who's the lead attorney on this, would have cost our citizens over $90,000 a year. And sometimes these kinds of litigation can go on for several years, so it can be extremely costly for us to do that. To avoid that cost, I asked an attorney from the Thrash law firm, Mr. Thrash, who is already representing the city in another class action to try to recover some HMR revenues that were not properly paid by companies like Expedia and Travelocity when they were selling rooms. And so we joined that class action. That's on appeal right now, I think, to the Supreme Court. Mr. Thrash agreed that he would be willing to represent us in this class action, the opioid crisis, on purely a contingent fee situation, so we don't have to pay $90,000 a year for anything to join this lawsuit. Mr. Thrash will not get paid unless it's successful, and then he would get one-third of the recovery as a contingent fee. This is ongoing litigation. Many states are involved in this. It hasn't all been in one direction. There was a local trial judge in Connecticut that rejected a class action in that state, pointing out some of the difficulties in being able to prove a complicated case like this. On the other hand, in Massachusetts, I believe it is, the attorney general there is actually pursuing the major player criminally, and has uncovered some very damaging, I would say, information on the pharmaceutical company during the process of this prosecution. So we don't know how it's going to end up, but if you approve this resolution, we will be able to retain Mr. Thrash and his firm, and if a recovery is eventually made, then we will actually have a portion of that recovery paid back to us. Now, it's only for damages we actually would have suffered, so I'm not sure how much that would be. Obviously, if our police or fire have had to use up quantities of Narcam or some other sort of anti-overdose drug, they might be able to recover that. But a lot of these damages would probably be more relative to hospitals. who would probably be suffering a lot more. Now, I did notify our fire chief, Mr. Dayringer, and he has been working with the CEMS board, the ambulance service, because they probably have actually more damages than what the city would have, and they are, I believe, also going to retain Mr. Thrash to represent them in case there is recovery. There's certainly – it's not certain that there will be a recovery at all, but if there is recovery, then at least we will be parties to that suit. now I'll be happy to answer any questions you might have so thank you for bringing us this cost savings and knowing about you know that we could do this other option but why wouldn't the other cities do this and you know like Thank you for advising us to do this, but is there any negative, I guess, part of doing this? Well, the other cities have already paid their fees to the Municipal League to join their civil defense litigation group. So it doesn't cost them anything. And, you know, for a long time, Municipal League wanted us to join it. They charge cities per capita, and that's why ours is over $90,000, and it would kind of go up with the next census. However, our police have expressed a desire to have an actual independent insurance company represent them and protect them. And I can say that we have done that ever since I've been city attorney the last 18 years. And in fact, our attorneys representing the police have never... I better not say this. We have had a very successful situation and not having to ever pay a judgment against the city for one of the many cases that have been brought against our police for excessive force and other stuff. So they have very good confidence in their local attorney that has been retained by the insurance company. I do too. I think he's a very good attorney. He's representing us in several cases right now. and is doing a good job for us. So the desire for the police department was to stay with the private insurance company and not to join the Municipal League Insurance Program. And since we wouldn't be getting any benefit like the other cities doing that, then it would be only to join the opioid class action. That would cost us the entire amount of money and it doesn't cost these other cities anything. So it makes sense for them to join. It might not make very much financial sense for us to join. I also want to thank the city attorney for working on this, finding a way to kind of lower our cost and then also to actually work on the epidemic. There's just a lot of people that go in for a tweaked knee and all of a sudden, you know, two years later they're dead and, you know, they spent their whole life as good citizens. The drugs that have been peddled are stronger than a lot of people, if not all people. So I'm glad I haven't been tested by any of this stuff. I don't want to. So I'm glad to see the city doing something. Okay. Anybody else? All right, do we have any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Okay, so long. Nope, yep, okay, second. I move that we approve the resolution. Powell. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Powell. No. Okay, there we go. All right. Any final comments on the council? All right. All right. Sundance and Police Home Ropes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Hick. Scroggins. Yes. Rutsch. Yes. Hart. Yes. Yes. All right. I've learned a couple of things here tonight. First, you just don't put 13 items on the agenda. So I'll be more cautious about that from now on. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have a few. Oh, Sarah Bunch, were you going to make an announcement? Okay. Oh. Okay. I don't have you on screen. You know? Um, just to remind council members of your joint meeting with the Board of Education tomorrow night, location at the Alps. If you hadn't had enough fun tonight, you got more tomorrow. Right. And, you know, Alps is the alternative learning school out on Old Farmington Road, so it will be at Alps, not at the high school. It begins at 515 with dinner and then the meeting will begin at 545. Also, next week, a week from today, the 71B project will have its final design studio group meeting. And, Garner, if you wanted to add anything to that, it's here in City Hall, room 111, between 5 and 7. That's the evening of the agenda meeting. And if anybody, any council members who want to come drop by, they've now looked at the entire corridor. This is the last public input studio. It's a good opportunity to see what they've been working on before they start writing up in the preliminary plan. So special invitation to you all, and this is also a full public meeting. Yes. Please spread the word. We're inviting everybody. Everyone should come see. Thank you. Yeah, what are the hours again? Yeah, the time and location. It'll be between 5 and 7 p.m. here at City Hall, room 111, one week from today, February 12th. A media release will go out and an event scheduled. Also, I hope you all saw the excellent news of last Friday when it was announced that Fayetteville, won the competition to be able to host the 2022 cyclocross world championship here in Fayetteville at Millsap Mountain, Centennial Project Millsap Mountain. It's an awesome opportunity and I hope you all are as excited about it as we are. Also The bulky waste cleanups are underway, spring bulky waste cleanups, and you can read all about them on the website, but we have weekends March 30th, April 6th, April 27th, and May 4th. And the two different registrations For sports, we have the adult softball registration now. Registration opens March 18th. The tournament will be March 22nd through 20th. I'm sorry. The registration is open through March 18th. The tournament is held March 22nd, 24th. And then the adult softball league registration is open through March 11th. Those are the announcements I have. Okay. Mayor, I have a couple announcements, I think, or at least reports to the city council about some litigation that we've had. First, I want to tell you that I filed in regarding the Markham Hill rezonings, which have been appealed, one of them properly, that I filed a motion to dismiss on the one rezoning that was not appealed timely and responded to their response. So that is to the court, ready for decision. There will also be a final hearing before the court over the other ordinance, the PCD ordinance, which was timely filed. But I still believe from all the information I have and I can be able to present to the court that your decision will be upheld. I believe that I'll do my best on that. We have never lost a zoning decision, so I don't want to lose one now. So anyway, I want to tell you about that. Now, on the other news, of course, is the Civil Rights Ordinance. The Supreme Court brought up an issue that wasn't brought up by any of the parties or argued on the briefs or anything like that during the oral argument. And they ruled that the ordinance is void and that they were not going to hear our constitutional argument that I've argued that Act 137 is a violation of legal protection of the laws if it invalidates our ordinance. That was not decided by the judge down here because he decided our ordinance actually complied with state law, which is my other argument I made. And he very correctly did not decide the constitutional issue because once you've decided a question, if you don't need to decide the constitutional issue, the rule has always been by the Supreme Court, you don't decide it. So he didn't, and it was appealed up to the Supreme Court. And they eventually did not decide the constitutional issue. They agreed it was not preserved for appeal, and they couldn't decide it. I argued that in my brief to them. And so they sent the case back down here after saying that, in fact, Act 137 would invalidate our ordinance. They sent the case back down here, and it was everybody's understanding, including the attorney generals, that – There was an issue left, which was the constitutionality of Act 137 and whether or not it was a violation of legal protection of the laws. And so we've been arguing about that for a couple of years. And so it was very surprising to us when the court assumed that somehow we could not argue that. And so I'm going to file a petition for rehearing, which I've got to tell you is rarely granted, but I'm going to lay out a careful analysis of the procedures that we went through and with an argument that, in fact, we didn't waive anything. It's right here. We've been arguing about it. The Supreme Court needs to at least consider our constitutional argument. They can turn this down, but they should at least listen to our constitutional argument and not just... say that we don't even have a chance to argue the constitutionality of the law that they say has invalidated the Uniform Civil Rights Protection Ordinance that was passed by the people. So that has to be filed within a couple weeks. I'm working on that and And they can, the Attorney General could respond to that, but they don't even have to wait. I mean, they can just make the decision. And like I say, usually, a rehearing is not granted. I hope in this case it will be. If it will be granted, that doesn't mean that they'll change their mind. I will do my best to change their mind. But I just want to let you know that I'm doing everything I can at this point to still defend the citizen's vote that approved the Uniform Protection of Civil Rights Ordinance. And if you all have any questions, I know it's pretty legalese junk, but yes. Thank you, Kit. Regarding our current Civil Rights Board, do we have – did that dissolve that board, or do we have the opportunity to still use that board to collect statistics and help us track what may or may not be happening in our community? The board has not, just like the ordinance itself, has not really been totally – I think it's in limbo right now until my motion for rehearing is filed and acted upon. Once it's acted upon, then the entire ordinance might be void, but we're not there yet. We just have to basically wait for the Supreme Court to give us a final decision. I hope they'll make the right decision and let us go ahead and argue the constitutionality of that act. I think that is the correct decision. I think they probably just didn't quite understand the procedural posture of everything because the first decision said that they weren't going to consider the constitutionality because, as I had argued to them, it wasn't preserved on appeal yet. because the lower court had not made a decision, and they don't make decisions on what the lower court doesn't decide. It was brought back here, and all the parties thought it was the issue, and so we were very surprised when we got to the Supreme Court, and they said, oh, what are you doing back here? So everything's in limbo now, and I can't really make a final decision on anything until the Supreme Court has acted on my petition for rehearing. Thank you. Okay, I do want to say this. I want to thank the city attorney and his work in defending this city and our civil rights ordinance. Thank you very much for that, Kid Williams. I also want to thank the city council. I want to thank the people of this city for standing up and voting for equality in this city. We're right, and I am certainly disappointed in the decision of the Supreme Court last week, but we continue to fight on. And we'll continue. So I want everybody to know that and the people to know that. So thank you all. If that's all we have, then we are adjourned. Thank you all very much.