I would like to call the order of the City Council meeting for February the 6th, 2024. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Here. Kirk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Berna? Here. Mayor Jordan?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Let's have some fun here. We want to...
 congratulate the Fentonville High School football team for winning the state 7a football state championship. Yes, yes. Please stand.
 All right. Okay. Okay, I'm going to read the certificate. It says, in recognition...
 to proudly present the federal high school football team. Mayor Lyon Jordan and the great city of Federal City Council proudly presents this to you all. So thank you all.
 Mayor, we want to get the players up here, the seniors. I was going to say, can I get all the, if you're here to represent us, if you wouldn't mind coming up here. We have a couple players and coaches, obviously, in attendance tonight. Okay.
 Thank you. Yes. Thank you.
 Hey, guys, before you leave the room, in case anyone did not know it, Fayetteville Bulldogs will be represented proudly in the Super Bowl on Sunday by two former Bulldogs. Yeah. So that's something that we all should be proud of. Thanks, Coach. Thank you. Thank you, Coach. Thank you. Well, that was good. Thank you.
 All right. The next order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of December, so this is the 12th month of the fiscal period for 2023. As we look at the revenue, again, for the month,
 Sales tax was up 1% for the City One Penny. It was up 6% for the county, and the average was up 3.3%, so that has come down a bit from what it was earlier in the year. Sales tax for the year was up about 5%.
 franchise fees were up 6% alcoholic beverages did very well last year they were up 12% building permits finished the year up 10% now so overall the city was up roughly 7% of for the year as far as revenue was
 concern. Expenditures were in budget. I will be closing out, my staff excuse me, will be closing out the books over the next couple of months. One thing we have is we were running dual budgets so we have to charge everything to 2023 applicable, and then to 2024 applicable. So we'll be putting in journal entries and working on the final financial statements.
 As we talked earlier in the year, and we remember, we came forward with a pay plan for the general fund, which was roughly $5 million increase over what the original operating budget.
 was that we asked you to look at and approve for the city, which you did at that point in time. When I'm looking at the revenue estimates at that point in time, when we talked, I said that sales tax would have to be up about 9.2% to cover that, the cost of those raises. Well, the sales tax wasn't up 9.2%. However, when we look at all of the other revenue combined,
 we will have covered that.
 pay plan increase. Now when I close out the books, when we close out the books for 2023 for the general fund, we will probably show a small accounting loss for the year of 2023, but that is primarily because we've paid down some of the old expenditures that had been programmed and carried forward in 2023. So it was a very positive year for the city.
 We covered operating expenses, including the salary increases that you granted earlier in the year. So that's how we close out the general fund. And at the time that the final financial statements are issued, we'll send all a copy, and I'll have a few brief comments on the year of 2023 at that point in time. Moving on to the...
 Street fund Street funds revenue for the year closed up three percent remember most of that is the half set sales tax allocated to roads by the state and the motor fuel tax allocation allocated back to the City as turn back so that was up about three percent Overall we had an operating game. We'll have an operating game for the street fund So it was a good good year for the street fund and
 Parking revenue was a little softer than we had we had liked especially toward the end of the year we were down about 8% for parking funds in the downtown and Dixon Street entertainment area Fines were down associated that that's good for a lot of people we didn't levy as many fines as we had anticipated and
 interest earnings were up and all in all the parking revenue fund lost me about a hundred thousand dollars for the period which is which is not too much considering that we did have some capital improvements in there but it was down a little bit in operating up in the operating results for the year
 Parks development, parks development was up 6% for the year. Remember that's the HMR taxes that goes to fund the maintenance of primarily maintenance of the parks. That had a pretty good gain for the year. Again, it was up 6% and that will finish for a gain with a operating gain for the year.
 Water and sewer, remember we had a lot of capital programs in the water and sewer. Now we finished up with about a 3% loss. The demand for water had been decreasing in the last few months of the year. So we were down about 3% in build revenue. We'll end up with
 with a loss of probably about $2.5 to $3 million for the year for water and sewer.
 However, I'll draw your attention when we brought the budget forward in 2022, we had anticipated $10 million deficit. So we did a little better than we had thought during the year. Again, moving forward, we've got a lot of capital programs in water and sewer, but it was a positive year even though we were down a little bit in the water and sewer fund.
 Solid waste fees were down 3% in the anticipated budget for the year. We talked about that. That's primarily because the transfer station was down for roughly two, two and a half months earlier in the year. But when we compare that to expenditures, we'll break even for the year. So the operating results will be just about even for the year.
 recycling and trash collection fund if we look at the airport the airport sales were in fact down revenues were down 11% and we'll have an operating loss for the year for the airport we'll keep an eye on the airport as we're moving forward again there are a lot of capital programs going on down there and gasoline sales were a little soft for the year we hope that picks up next year
 all in all I'll say it was a very successful year for the city believe we accomplished many things and financially and I'll be happy to answer questions what questions do we have Paul yes Paul sorry I
 i didn't catch you before you turned your back i apologize um so on building permits did i hear correctly that the year finished up 10 percent they were up 10 percent okay and then i believe for the 24 budget right now we projected building permits to be flat is that correct flat compared to
 what we had anticipate them ending last year. Okay. Do you have any different outlook for 24, given how we saw the year end? Well, we started to decline a little bit at the end of the year. I don't have any different outlook right now. Again, building permits can be very volatile, but I'm holding with what the projection was at this point in time. We'll take a look at that as we move forward.
 Anything else? Okay. Well, the next order of business is consent. All right. Number one, approval of the January 18, 2024 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize a contract to play safety sports to provide youth injury mitigation courses for the athletic personnel and coaches at a cost of $20 per person and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, Your Media, in the amount of $211,216 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of public access television channel through 2024. Number four, a resolution to approve an agreement between the City of Federal and Junket LLC to haul and dispose of solid waste within the city.
 Number five, a resolution to approve the second one-year contract with Orvis LLP for auditing services for 2024 audit in an amount not to exceed $175,647, with an option to renew for up to three additional one-year terms.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $308,612 recognizing interest revenue generated from the sales and use tax capital improvement and refunding bond series 2019.
 Number seven, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $54,300 plus liquid taxes and freight charges from Evans Enterprises Incorporated for the repair of a pump used at the Hamstring Sewer Lift Station.
 Number eight, a resolution to authorize the city attorney to see congregation possession of certain lands owned by federal student housing DST needed for the utility relocation associated with the RDoT project 040846I49 MLK interchange. Number nine, a resolution to authorize cost share with Petra Plus
 LLC any amount of a hundred and two thousand five hundred and seventy seven dollars and eighty cents to complete improvements associated With portions of the North Street bond project and to approve a budget adjustment this is 2019 Street improvement bond project and
 Number 10, a resolution to approve an agreement with Black Hills Energy, Arkansas, incorporated in the amount of $9,950.84 for utility relocations associated with the Midtown Corridor project along Dean Street and to approve a budget adjustment. This is the 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 11. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,244,144 allocating proceeds from the sale of the South Plaza property to Rendell Properties Incorporated.
 12. A resolution to approve change order number 1 to the Fleet Shop Expansion Contract with DC Sparks Construction LLC in the amount of $272,328.84 to provide and install an overhead crane and to approve a budget adjustment.
 13. A resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Exclusive Flight LLC DBA Afterglow Aircraft Solutions for the airport hangar at 4158 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $901 per month. 14. A resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Exclusive Flight LLC DBA.
 DBA afterglow aircraft solutions for the airport hangar at 4580 South School Avenue for rent any amount of $2,641.77 per month. Number 15, a resolution to approve an agreement between the City of Fentonville and the Diamond Waste LLC to hold and dispose of solid waste within the city.
 Number 16, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $49,341 for the construction repair and replacement of fleet fuel canopy at Happy Hollow Complex.
 Number 17, a resolution to approve the purchase of Marathon Galaxy baler from Waste Recycle Equipment Sales LLC, any amount of $664,174, pursuant to a source wheel co-opting purchasing contract. Number 18, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Caterpillar wheel loader from Waste Package from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, DBA Riggs,
 CAD in the amount of $325,370.68 plus any surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source-willed cooperative purchasing contract. Number 19, a resolution to authorize the purchase of three Peterbilt refuge trucks from Arkansas Municipal Equipment Incorporated in the total amount of $1,046,000.
 $583.50 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price percentage of source will co-opted purchasing contract.
 Number 20, a resolution to authorize the purchase of three Bobcats from Clark Equipment Company, DBA Bobcat Company, through local dealer WT Equipment in the total amount of $118,822.24 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source will cooperative purchasing contract and to approved budget adjustment.
 number 21 a resolution to approve the purchase of five ford vehicles from lewis florida federal in the total amount of 214 124 plus any additional surcharges freight charges our delivery fees up to 10 percent of the original purchase price percentage to ordinance 6491. number 22 a resolution
 to repeal resolution number 6923 to authorize the purchase of two vehicles from lewis ford fed ball in a total amount of 112 202 dollars 34 cents to authorize the purchase of two vehicles from superior automotive group of silo springs in the total amount of 83 771 dollars to authorize the
 for any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original purchase price and to approve budget adjustment, number 23.
 a resolution to approve the purchase of parts and repair services from original equipment manufacturers for their authorized vendors for repair locations to tear down inspect repair and maintain warranty where applicable for vehicle and equipment repairs is needed through december 31st 2024 with the approved budget and there's more number 24
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of a new hauling tractor from WT Equipment in the amount of $101,910.24 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source wheel co-operative purchasing contract.
 Number 25, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $2,299, recognizing hazmat response revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. Number 26, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote from Motorola Solutions Incorporated in the amount of $36,249.09 plus any applicable taxes to...
 the commission legacy radio equipment located at densmore trail tower so and number 27 a resolution to amend the 2024 adopted budget by reappropriating 155 million 665 thousand dollars and bonded our ongoing capital projects outstanding obligations and grant funded items i will accept
 motion to accept the consent agenda has lengthy read I make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read second motion second except consent agenda as read care would you please call the roll thanks yes sir yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes
 Yes. Burnout. Yes. Okay. Let's move along to unfinished business. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment to create a project budget for an expansion of Stern Street between Baines Drive and Old Missouri Road.
 Chris, do you have this or Jonathan, do you have this? Who has this? We will both be presenting some information, so I'll start. You all got ten minutes. Yes.
 So, since the last meeting, we have had a tour that we went on site, several council members attended. We compiled some questions from the council members and we'll provide answers to those. One of the questions was sort of the context around the
 the Stearns Street area, undeveloped property, potential future developments, and how the street may function in the future. So Jonathan has some slides to present on that question, and then I'll follow up with some additional questions and answers and some further information. Thank you, Mr. Brown. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I'll jump right in, because I've got a few here to show you, and I do want to keep the 10 minutes in mind.
 What I want to begin with is kind of the scope of what we're talking about tonight. This is a larger shot of the area that's being considered or being affected by what we're talking about. To orient you a little bit, you can begin with Zion Road to the north, Joyce Boulevard to the south, Old Missouri Road to the east, and College Avenue to the west. Almost equidistant between the four is the connection we're discussing.
 If connected, this will provide the single east-west point of connectivity between Zion Road to the north and Joyce Boulevard to the south, which is a distance of roughly half a mile without any current connections between the two.
 Turning to land use, there are a number of undeveloped properties in the area, totaling over 30 acres in very close proximity to this connection. While all are zoned for some manner of development, the two you see here with yellow stars are specifically zoned for residential, which can have the biggest impacts on traffic patterns.
 Between these two there's a zoning entitlement of over 500 units both again of which these could Ultimately utilize this connection to better move around this portion of Fayetteville Setting these vacant properties aside. There are also two peripheral developments in close proximity to this connection that bear recognition The first to the northwest behind Barnes & Noble is an apartment complex that is built and occupied includes about 186 units
 And to the southeast corner, another apartment complex that is currently under construction with about 240 units for a grand total of over 400 units that are recently come online or are coming online.
 Taking a wider perspective, add some additional consideration that staff finds important in justifying this connection. This zooms out a little bit further, especially to include lands west of College Avenue and east of Crossover Road. Here again you can see the connection and the path it will create between Old Missouri and College.
 It's also important to note beyond this, our master street plan envisions a future connection further east all the way to Crossover Road or 265. Although this is not designed nor funded, right away has been acquired through a number of different subdivisions in the area, totaling about three quarters of an acre that could potentially contribute to this in the future.
 Ultimately, this additional connection, when taken with the connection that's proposed before council tonight, will link Crossover all the way to College Avenue, which has been important because this portion of Fayetteville continues to see housing growth. And I have some very prominent examples of projects that are very close to breaking ground, have already broken ground, or represent the potential to break ground that bear connection to this connection.
 Examples of this include a project called the Clod just south of the Arkansas, Northwest Arkansas Mall for 207 units. Phase three of Sagely Place which includes 63 units. Chandler Crossing which is immediately east of Zion Road and Crossover which has the potential for well over 340 units but an assured entitlement of at least that 340.
 The Berkshire is a 140 unit project proposed as North Signature Bank. And finally, although it is currently zoned agriculturally, there is 25 acres of undeveloped land at the northeast corner of Old Missouri Road and Joyce that represents a significant amount of development potential that could benefit from this connection being completed. I hope this helps council see this connection in a fuller light and I'd just like to hand it back off to Mr. Brown for additional details, thank you.
 All right, thank you Jonathan. I'm going to go through a few more slides here. I think I am. So just to go through a few more questions that were posed.
 Will there be changes to the Stearns and Vantage intersection as traffic increases? There was a concern expressed about that intersection. And yes, if necessary, that certainly could be looked at if we continue to see traffic increase at that intersection and need some additional traffic control there.
 The cost of the trail only option, that was a discussion item as well. We've estimated that at about $50,000 to construct the trail. The lighting that we included as part of the street is about 50,000. So if we included that lighting, it would be a total of 100,000 for that project. And then a big question, a lot of discussion about the alignment of the street itself and could it be shifted a little bit
 away from the existing houses and we do have a concept of that And I'll show here this concept Eliminates the sidewalk on the on the southeast side of the street Leaves the sidewalk on the on the northwest side it does move the the
 the street alignment away and kind of squeezes it towards the existing right-of-way to the south of the existing right-of-way. You see the existing shed maintenance building there that would have to be relocated under this scenario.
 Just zooming in a little bit closer The corner of that house is about 20 feet from the existing right-of-way see the RW there. That's the right-of-way line by moving The street as far as we can under this concept
 It gets another, the back of the sidewalk, another 15 feet away or so. And then the sidewalk, or the curb is about another 12 feet. So about 45 to 50 feet distance from where the traveling, cars will be traveling to the corner of that house. This is kind of the shadow of the fence that was in existence.
 So that fence could largely be left in place as shown here. So finally, this is again just a reiteration of the request.
 resolution that's in front of you it is approval of a budget adjustment to create the project fund to construct this street connection with that I can answer questions and Jonathan is prepared to answer any as well all right let's keep going on this what questions do we have I would just say this mayor
 Obviously, we have some of the neighbors here, but with the fact that, and we obviously want to give them an opportunity to speak since they're here, but considering this change is just being presented, I might recommend that we...
 go in with the intentions of tabling this to give them a couple of weeks to look at it since it's brand since the drawing is brand new and affects them greatly. So just something to consider. Okay, Teresa, did you?
 I'll get public comment, don't worry about that. So I have a question for Jonathan. That connection to 265, you mentioned that you've acquired some right of way. But approximately how much of that have you been able to acquire? And because when we were there on the tour, I thought I heard, or maybe I misheard, that there was not going to be a connection to 265. So I just want to be very clear about
 That, I guess, is on the Master Street Plan, and how will that be accomplished?
 That's a good question. One of the most prominent ways that the city acquires right away is through dedications that occur during development. It's one of our baseline requirements when somebody subdivides property or creates an impact that we require right away. Often that's associated with an adjacent street to meet our current master street plan. But when a property abuts or is bisected by a future planned street, right away can be required if
 the conversation we often have proportionally it justifies it there have been two lot splits between 265 and old missouri that have required that right away so again i don't want to misrepresent that was a huge amount i think i said about three quarters of an acre which is correct so while that measures out is it's about half a mile between old missouri road and 265 and about i believe it's about
 About 1300 feet of that has right of way dedicated, not the entire width of the right of way that would be necessary, but it begins to create that path where it could occur. Additionally, it is worth knowing that it's possible that in the future as we, if the city pursues that connection as the master street plan aspires to, that alignment may shift. We may vacate that right of way and use it to acquire different right of way from those property owners.
 So I think that answers your numbers or your question and a little beyond but does that help? Yeah and I might also add that really when we talk about a master street plan connection like this, there are basically two ways that portions of that street can be constructed. One is through the development process so as a development occurs they are required to construct street improvements.
 and then the other is just by by the city actually constructing the the uh the street itself taking that on as a project in looking at the development pattern there there are undeveloped properties and so we would expect that some portions of this could see that street be constructed by developers
 There are other, I would say they're underdeveloped. They're large single family tracts, things like that. But they are developed, so we wouldn't expect to see
 any kind of development on that that would trigger the construction of the street. So if the city were going to do it, at least in the near term, or if we were going to see the street constructed, that would become a city project. Now in the far-off future, you know, those underdeveloped single-family properties could redevelop into something else and then it can become a developer project. So I think the
 The best way to say it in my mind is, you know, it's not never going to be constructed, but it's not something that we would see constructed as part of development projects in the near term or even in the midterm.
 So just a follow-up question for that. So really it's a development issue when development occurs and what the amount of proportionality is for their contribution or preservation. But there's not any obstacles right now, I guess is the question. So there's not like a large housing complex right there, right in the middle of a connectivity that would prevent that in the future.
 That's correct. There are some terrain challenges and there would be some design considerations, but it is possible to build that connection.
 Chris first I want to thank you and your team for kind of re-looking at this for meeting with the neighborhood and with the council members and kind of making those adjustments that were requested I think it really helps especially if you're that house right on the north there we did discuss or maybe I maybe was just me I don't know I thought a few people were discussing this but kind of adding some mitigation trees on
 the site and doing that kind of on the north side to give that that house maybe some evergreens to give that house a buffer and and maybe to the west and then we're also going to be moving the shed or I don't know we but the sheds are gonna be moving over to the west side the northwest side right so they won't have to cross the street it'll also give a buffer to the west side of the property
 Yes, that's correct. Both of those were discussed. The sheds moving over to the side of the street nearest the development. And then the mitigation trees, we included in the budget to replace some trees.
 It's really just a matter of selecting what those proper species are and locating those in concert with our urban forester to create that buffer. So yes, that could be part of the project. Okay, great. And thanks again for making these adjustments. I think it makes it a much better project for everybody.
 Scott I think you're mentioning tabling. I'm gonna advocate against tabling This has already been tabled once and I think I think the new plan is pretty clear And you know the idea with we're getting these trees and in there too and some buffers added in the streets been narrowed So I'd like us to move forward on this. So thank you Let's take some public comment
 whether we table this or not we are going to give everybody a chance to have some public comment everybody gets one turn speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmember stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that yes
 Karen Percival, Bellefonte Gardens. I would like a copy of the map to get an idea of where we might want to move our sheds if you all vote this to pass and to see, did I understand Chris right, there's not going to be sidewalks on the north side or because you're coming into a street that has sidewalks on both sides. So I guess I didn't hear all that and I'd like to know.
 Jonathan, Chris. I believe the drawing that Mr. Brown showed showed sidewalks on the north side of the street.
 Yeah, so the concept that we've developed squeezes the street as far as we can to the south. It does remove the sidewalk on the south side. The existing Stern Street on the east-west section of Sterns in the existing neighborhood, the sidewalk is on the north side only. So at some point we are going from sidewalk on both sides to sidewalk on one side only. However, I also would say that
 This is kind of the first step. So if this budget is created and it becomes a project, then we would flesh out the concept, work with the property owners, get the buffers shown, and have, I think, a lot more public engagement with the neighborhood about exactly what this design looks like. So this is not the end of it. This is not the final thing that you would see. It's really just the start of that design process.
 I appreciate that because we would like to see it. I don't want to sound ungrateful, I appreciate everyone coming and doing the tour the other day and making the modifications that have happened. And so that's all. All right. Thank you.
 My name is Margaret Little and I'm in Bellefonte Gardens and I also appreciate the council members that came. I have a problem with the city spending $480,000 to connect this park that is not going to do a whole lot for maybe years and years and years. The people that will be coming on that are very few. The other thing is when they get to the other end of Stearns where it connects with Joyce,
 That is an impossible intersection and to have a street connectivity street going to a horrible connection is Doesn't make sense to me once if Stern's goes all the way to crossover I can see making that a connect connecting that but as of right now, I that doesn't That doesn't it doesn't seem logical to me. Thank you. Thank you. Who else likes addresses? I
 I'm Sue King. I live on Stearns, 1733 Eastern Street. I'm the second house from this extension. We've had discussions about this in the past a few years ago, and I went back and looked in your guidelines as a city, and at that point, Stearns did not meet any of your criteria to be a connector street.
 And I don't, I haven't gone back, I've been gone, so I haven't gone back to look to see if those have been changed. But my understanding is the connector street guidelines require two sidewalks, require the street itself to be wider than what Stearns is. I went and measured it according to what was in your guidelines. So I'm understanding now that if this is passed, you will be coming back to say you're going
 parts of my front yard and i'm concerned about that and i would like you not to vote on that tonight i'd like to have more discussion about that or having that looked at because i know it looks right now on the plans that that would be ideal to connect all of these units etc but it's not safe most of the houses on that street are many of the houses on the street are rentals with multiple cars
 And it's a very narrow street. So that just means I lose my yard. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Do we have anybody on Zoom? Yes, sir. I have Karen Woodward. Okay, go ahead. Go ahead. Are you able to hear me? Now we can. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, Karen Woodward, 4026 North Zion Valley. I'm in Belafonte Gardens. I have emailed most of you with my more than anything fiscally irresponsible is how I see this project at this time.
 uh... i do not feel like four hundred eighty two thousand dollars uh... to be spent on this small connection is uh... at this point is worth the money i do understand of what was presented tonight and the different areas called uh... sagely
 Chandler Crossing, all of those are actually not directly involved with this connection. So where I appreciate that information, looking at the map that was presented, it does not appear that this connection will help.
 You already have finished Zion. Thank you for finishing that. Also, I'm going to close with the safety. Not only is it, to me, a fiscally irresponsible situation, I think we are creating a death trap, and I've said this over and over, and I don't know of any other better word for it. I think we are creating a death trap.
 to use, but it's Sterns and Vantage. It is already dangerous. You're going to put more traffic there. There will be more incidents, and also if they drop off into Joyce, I'm sure by now you guys have seen that intersection of Sterns and Joyce, which is already another safety hazard. So thank you all for taking your time and doing your due diligence on this. I do appreciate it, and that is all. That is all I have to say.
 all right thank you who else no one else has their hand raised mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution and uh what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like today i think i think i think bob might have been first okay um a couple chris can you come up for a second um you know to the to the to concerns of cost
 this is budgeted just kind of it the cost of any road in Fayetteville right there's no there's no difference in the cost of building this road as compared to per foot as compared to any other road is that correct that's right yes we developed a cost estimate based on bids from other projects and that sort of thing I know it's a big number and it's a short amount of street I guess what I would say about that is
 It's not going to get any cheaper if we wait or do anything else. There's nothing we can do really to change what the cost is. Yeah, so for me to take this under consideration as far as cost goes, I would have to say no to every street if that's just how much streets cost. And then also there will be a little bit of savings in removing a sidewalk.
 and by narrowing down to 21 feet, would that be a fair statement? That's true, yes. And again, the budget was established based on an estimate of the initial concept, which included sidewalks on both sides. It also included some contingency and some other things, so as we developed the design,
 we can refine that cost and hone in on it. So, yeah, hopefully we can realize some savings for several reasons. And then as far as...
 I think there was mention of maybe taking away a little bit of somebody's yard or something, but everything, we're not taking anything that's not in the right of way, is that correct? That's right. Yeah, I think that comment is about existing sterns so that that property owner is on Stern Street existing. So one of the things we talked about is sidewalk improvements along sterns.
 potentially if we added a sidewalk on the south side of the existing street,
 um there is some right-of-way there but there might need to be some some right-of-way so that that could be a situation but again that's uh has not been developed and so as we go into the design process and continue to look at concepts and impacts to properties and uh versus improvements to that sidewalk along stearns we'll we'll sort through those types of issues thank you
 Thank you, Chris. So if you if this connection is made in our streets for that connector too narrow, would the city have to come in and actually expand that, not just do sidewalk improvement, but actually expand the roadway?
 Well, no. We have lots of streets on our master street plan that don't meet our current master street plan standards. That doesn't mean that they can't function adequately. So I think, if I remember right, the existing Stearns is wide enough for two lanes of travel plus parking. So it's actually wider than what this little connection is proposed to be.
 So again, it's just you can have situations where massive street plan standards change, roads have been built for a certain function and that changes. So when you make these connections, you don't necessarily have to go back and upgrade everything, only if it is a problem and needs to be widened for certain types of traffic, et cetera.
 Okay, my second question is do you have a criteria that you use internally on the number of cars and traffic and all of that before you initiate a project or a connection such as this?
 Well, yeah, there are a lot of different ways to look at this. I think the reason we're bringing this, again, is because we did receive those funds from the developer, so it's kind of, if we don't use those funds, then they are going to be
 we'll go back to the developer. So now is the time to have that discussion, make that consideration, and either move forward with the project or send those funds back.
 And so just to follow up with that, if we didn't have the $20,000 and have to act on that, this would have come forward maybe in another five years or something around that time period? Yeah, it's, that could be, I mean, I think the fact that the street got built as part of the development, and we just have this small last connector piece bumping up
 bumps it up in the priority list but really there's there wouldn't be the urgency that there is because of the the funding that we have available thank you some of the comments were about
 on Joyce at the intersection of Stearns and Joyce further on down or at Vantage. And there are going to be some improvements made to Joyce. We don't have any plans firmed up yet.
 couple of dollars to apply to Joyce. That's correct, yes. Joyce is one of our projects that's in the Safe Streets for All grant, the 25 million dollar grant that we received. So we will be looking at that as soon as we can get the project agreement signed, get that going. We'll be hiring a consultant to look at solutions there and it's basically all the way from
 College Avenue to Highway 265, the various congestion and safety issues that occur along that corridor. Okay, thank you. I just want to make everyone aware of that and you know that that is coming and we don't look at these things just like this is just isolated by itself. I've looked at what
 may be happening later on down the road with Joyce and improvements there. Thank you, Chris. That did go through the Transportation Committee. Correct. Okay. Scott. I just wanted to elaborate just a little bit on my previous request, but I saw the new drawing yesterday because I reached out to Chris and asked if a new drawing had been completed because we had mentioned that to the residents.
 I saw that. I believe the residents that it most directly affects saw it 10 minutes ago when everybody else did. And that's my concern about that is, you know, I see the benefits of this. I see the concerns.
 But I also asked Chris, Chris, if we delayed this two weeks, does it have any adverse effect whatsoever on the project? And he said no. And correct me if I'm wrong. That's correct. So the reason I was was, you know, asking about tabling on tabling. This is the fact that the people that it most directly affected had just seen it. And I think in fairness to them, that's something we should consider.
 Tracy. I agree with you, Scott. I think the residents need to have a chance to kind of look this over, and it would be helpful to have it posted. I don't think it's in our packet, and I do really appreciate you all going back and taking a look at this and trying to design something that's responsive to the comments we had during the tour. But I do think it would be helpful to give folks a little time to kind of digest that and look thoroughly through it.
 Chris. Wait a minute Bob. Sarah was next. And then you and then DeAndre. Go ahead Sarah.
 So I acknowledge the comments that were made before and I appreciate the comments brought up about safety on Joyce and we will be addressing those. I actually have taken those connections many more times since I talked with the neighborhood who brought that forward because that's not the area town I live in. And so I'm excited about those things that are coming in the future to create improvements. And I think, you know, with us.
 adopting the Vision Zero plan. I think that staff and the administration and your council definitely are very focused on making sure that we're making things as safe as possible. And I understand too the thought process of potentially tabling. My hesitation with that is that I think that the staff in good faith while the drawing is new,
 is very much willing and ready to work with the community that lives in that area. It's possible that's gonna continue to be tweaked. Really tonight what we're voting on is whether or not we're creating a connection and then holding hands that there will be a process that we'll make sure to be respectful in this community to make sure to create those buffers and to have them there vocal about making sure that it has a good outcome. And so I would say for tonight, if we could,
 move forward with us, that would be my preference, just because I do think in good faith that I think this community will continue to show up and be vocal and make sure that their needs are expressed so they can be put into the design as it moves forward. So tonight I would say that the diligence I feel like has been done on all parties going forward would make a good project for us going forward.
 Chris, the funds that might have to be returned, how much time do, like when does this need to be? Because there is a deadline at some point. I imagine it's coming up. That's why you brought this forward. Yeah, we have five years plus an extension and Kit might be able to help out with more detail on that. Trying to see when the original...
 Um,
 The first funds that we received were in 2019. So we're getting close to that five-year period. And does the project just need to be started at a certain time? What we've in the past is, you know, when we have projects under construction, they're considered to be encumbered, spent. So I don't have any concerns. I think we've got
 to get this done. We're looking at probably, you know, four to six months to finalize the design, get the bids going, get the project under construction. Okay. And, you know, and I don't want people, you know, the 20,000 out of 40,000, 400,000 plus, you know, it's close to 5%. It's not an insignificant amount. And it seems to, you know, cover the cost of the mitigation trees, which, you know,
 which I think is a very important part of the project. And so I just want to make sure we don't push this too far because I'd hate to have to get rid of that part of the project if that's the thing that we get kicked or something. Chris, thank you so much for your presentation.
 question and I think you've already answered it centered around the timeline and The amount and so I don't think that if we table it. I just don't think that will it'll be to our disadvantage I think about a number of times that we've tabled things very very similar fashion and so I'm in favor and I
 tabling it for at least two weeks to give those residents who haven't had the opportunity to take a look at it and to really ask questions and to digest it, especially if we're not approaching a very near timeline. Okay, Sarah. Yes, I was going to say I would support tabling this item as well because we run no risk of losing funds in two weeks.
 You know, just to give the neighborhood, it may not change anything. I doubt that it will, honestly, but I would love to give the neighborhood a little more time to look at this. I think that's a courtesy that we just try to extend to our citizens, even if we're at odds with them on a particular issue, and I just think it's fair to the citizens to do that. Thank you. Mayor, I'd make a motion that we table it for two weeks.
 Everyone have a motion to second the table for two weeks. All right. Any other discussion? All right. Carol, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? No. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 They'll be tabled for two weeks, correcto? All right. Let's go on to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve the purchase of property located at 2633 North Gregg Avenue, owned by Quality Life Associates.
 incorporated any amount of $525,000 plus $10,000 for closing costs to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 street improvement bond project. Chris. Thank you, Mayor. To start with, the reason that we're talking about this property purchase is in 2020, the city signed an agreement with
 the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad to install a new railroad crossing at Futrell Drive. This is to allow access into the property west of the railroad tracks where now we're talking about working with Washington Regional Medical Center for an expansion of their facility.
 The reason we're talking about this particular property is that the opening of that railroad crossing requires the closure of another railroad crossing. So the closure that is attached to that particular agreement is at Jocelyn Lane, which is a very small crossing. You may not have ever even noticed it. It's kind of across the street from the Stone Mill Bread.
 building and it's an older existing crossing wooden got wooden railroad ties so it's a it's kind of an unimproved crossing
 In order to close that, we had two pieces of property that used that railroad crossing. So the only way that they can access those properties is the existing crossing. We began looking at ways to mitigate the closure of that. I looked at using the existing bridge that goes across Skull Creek out to Quality Lane.
 The hydraulics of that bridge floods pretty significantly, so to improve the hydraulics so it doesn't flood was really not feasible. There was just no way to make it work with the surrounding terrain. We also looked at a driveway that goes to the south.
 and ties into some property to the south and ultimately out to Township Street. That cost was about a million dollars that we estimated to construct that essentially a driveway. And so we began looking at other options and I also should say that we were having difficulty making the hydraulics work on that and not impacting the floodplain. So it was becoming apparent that
 purchase of the property was a solution that we should pursue. Ultimately, we were able to talk to this particular property owner. They originally were not willing to sell, but then their situation changed and they came to us and said that they were willing to. So the cost of
 of that the appraised value is five hundred forty thousand dollars. They have agreed to sell the property for five hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars and um
 So that's the item that's in front of you. This property is right on the edge of the floodway, maybe even slightly in the floodway. So removing this structure from the floodway floodplain will be beneficial overall to our floodplain in that area. So those are the reasons that we're recommending the purchase of the property. We did provide in the packet a copy of the
 the house footprint the property footprint and the floodplain so you can see how those all overlay each other and with that i can answer any questions well hang on folks y'all need to silence your phones about three times during the course of the meeting it's it's disruptive to what we're trying to do here so please stop put your phones on silent all right go ahead
 Teresa, do you have some questions? Oh, okay, go ahead. Okay, my question is just an informational question that a constituent brought to me. And, you know, I let them know that you had looked at the, you know, getting a road to it and it was not feasible. But they were still wondering, can this building be used for another purpose or, you know, where we don't have to raise it? Or could it be leased out to, you know, somebody that,
 Doesn't need a road or is there a requirement to have a road up to it? Yeah, we've talked about some options. One thing that we're looking at is the potential for somebody to be able to move that and I think we're in the process of working with purchasing to develop basically a bid of some kind that we could, so we could see the property be used or the structure be used moved to another location.
 Um,
 If that doesn't work out, there is a potential that you could access across. There would be no vehicular access to the house, so you have to walk to it. So that's a little bit awkward. Fire access is kind of problematic. So our least attractive option is removing the building, taking it completely down. We are going to pursue every other avenue before we do that.
 great thank you chris thank you so much for providing a lot more information about this situation that's why I took it off consent because I wanted to hear a little bit more about it are there I I was just I could you put the map up or maybe I can put it back up on my screen because I was wondering if if the area to the south is that were another area where you might need to purchase that
 that property that's the second um piece that might be required is that do i have that accurately that that's correct yes um and we are talking with that property owner and um have have i've had good discussions with them uh they own the property to the south that's uh that's the i guess the old coke plant that's what the uh the
 the natives tell me anyway. Yeah. And so they own that property too. We've talked to them a little bit about potential for some lot line adjustments and some other things that they're working through to make that property to the south a little bit more
 improve the development characteristics of it in certain ways. So we're kind of working through those details before we bring that back. But that's about, I think our appraisal is somewhere in the $250,000 to $275,000 range for that piece of property. So we're talking about probably $750,000. Versus a million for the bridge or some other access. Correct. Okay.
 And then if you're able to, hopefully you'll be able to have somebody bid on the house and actually transport that house to another area. Do you all have plans for that area? Would it just be a preservation area because it is in the floodway? Yeah.
 Yes, absolutely. That's something that we've talked about. You know, it's a potential location where it's pretty, I mean, there are not many trees, especially on the property to the south. So opportunities to plant some trees, develop additional forests. Preservation is really what it would need to be in some form or fashion. Great. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
 Okay, all right Let's take some public comment in everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address those press chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom We'll speak after that who would like to address this from the public. Do you have anybody on zoom Susan? No, sir Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I
 So this is a resolution. Motion to approve. Second. We get a second there? Okay. All right. Any discussion on that? Caravage, please call the roll. Funch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number two.
 resolution to approve the transfer of the Woolsey farm Stead property from the utilities department to the parks natural resources Cultural Affairs Department and to prove a budget adjust now what this
 What this resolution is requesting is the Woolsey property, that project's been going on since 2014, one assessment was made on that property. The Woolsey property sits on the parcel that was purchased back when we built the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant. So it was paid for by water and sewer funds. Water and sewer is an operating fund.
 That fund is funded by fees that are used to provide services, et cetera, for the water and sewer customers.
 When we looked at the Woolsey property and the decision was made to look at restoring that property, the discussion had been to restore the property, to clear it over time. There actually at one time was a Woolsey visionary committee formed that met on several times about that. And in the long run to transfer that property, restore the farmhouse, restore some of the
 and look at it as a place for visitation, something like a living history farm for the residents of the city of Fayetteville.
 So far we have restored the farmhouse, cleared the property, we're putting up a fence across the area, but I feel it is time now to actually make the asset transfer and purchase the property from the water and sewer fund for $271,000, roughly $10,000 an acre, which is what they paid for it, and transfer it to general assets.
 For city use and with that I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions you have sir. I
 Well, mine's more of a statement. And I did pull this off consent. So thank you, Paul, for covering some of the history. Because it has been such a long pathway these last 10 years, our world looks a lot different than it did 10 years ago when this conversation started. And I'm so appreciative of the efforts that happen with parks. There's a lot of projects happening in parks. We're going to have a really tough 24 year, most likely. We've talked a lot about some constraint within our budgets.
 And so really what I want to just kind of put out there for consideration, I'm very supportive of this going forward tonight, but the memo talked about additional investments in the property. And I've spoken a little bit with some staff just about the hope that we could maybe do some revisioning. I got to walk a little bit of the property hoping maybe we can go do a tour. It's a beautiful property. It's good. I mean, it's incredible forest, et cetera.
 I know that the staff is working really hard on lots of other parks projects and that they need to really be focused on those and being concerned about additional potential financial outlays without additional visioning in that area. Just going forward, I think there was a mention of maybe some additional visioning.
 things that we might see some financial outlays on and just wanting to kind of put that on our radar maybe to be able To do a tour and potentially some additional visioning before those happen. So supportive of this tonight going to park. So, thank you Teresa
 Thank you, Mayor. Paul, I just want to, I don't think this happens, but I just want to ask the question anyway. You know, the restrictions on the use or the vision of the use, does that change at all with the transfer from water and sewer to general assets? Once it goes to general assets, it's still city purposes. It can be purposed whatever way the council and administration want to purpose it. Now, it just transfers that asset,
 reimburses that fund for the use for more or less governmental purposes where right now that land lays dormant because it's part of the purchase of water and so that changes nothing in that aspect. Thank you very much. Anything else? All right let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three-minute duration don't engage
 anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and though participating by then we'll speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber right now on this one
 No one's on Zoom, Mayor, with their hand raised about this topic. Okay, so we're right back to the council. Mayor, I move we approve the resolution as presented. Second. I have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Caravans, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Vernon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the proposed Spout Spring Historic District petition agreeing that the city-owned property of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center shall be included with Spout Spring Historic District. DeAndre, I believe. Okay.
 Good evening, everyone. Kara is passing out some information, and that information consists of some of the questions and concerns that have been brought forth. And as I mentioned last week, and I really appreciate Jonathan Kurtz
 confirming this, I was asked about questions. And this has been such, this is rather a very meaningful and significant project and details matter. And so I didn't want to run the risk of,
 giving misinformation and so I've encouraged you all to please reach out to Emma. This process has been, Emma has been spirit in this process, this project since September and so tonight she's here as I mentioned last week to provide the council members and the Fayetteville community with
 the necessary information regarding tonight's resolution. And Mayor Jordan, before Emma comes, I just want to take this opportunity to say, happy Black History Month. And I also want to take the opportunity to recognize what many of us consider Fayetteville African-American Natives. Very few times have I looked out in the audience
 see so many African Americans. And so this project is bringing the community together. And what's really interesting about this project, what's really amazing, I had a conversation with Emma today and Emma will confirm this, that there has been little, there has been no pushback.
 And I don't believe any city council members have received any pushback from any citizens, at least I haven't. And so this is not just good for the black community. This is good for all of us. And so I remember Mayor Jordan in 2020 in August, and I've said this before, but I want to draw attention to it tonight because it's conducive to what to tonight's discussion.
 The city of Fayetteville was the only city in the state of Arkansas to declare racism to be a public health crisis. And we did that for a reason. And of course, we all know that the struggle of Black citizens has been a hard topic to discuss and experience in America. And Fayetteville has not been any different. And so I think that what Emma is presenting tonight
 I want us to think about many things, but especially how this is good for Fayetteville. And when I look out into the audience and I see African Americans who are running the risk, you know, when we sit here and talk about when we go back and forth about policies, these are not just policies. These policies impact our humanity. And so for me, this
 It's different because it hits home. And I think it's safe to say that every last one of us, there are things that we discuss as a community and as a council, it has a different impact, it has a personal impact. So this has a personal impact for me, especially in a community where we say all people are welcome, a community where we believe that black lives not only matter, but they thrive.
 Fayetteville's not perfect, but there are some things that we have to fix, and tonight is an opportunity for us to do just that. So I want you guys to please, please, please don't even think about this as something that DeAndre is bringing forth. Think about the greater good of Fayetteville. Think about how this is going to impact our community, and it's going to help us become who we say we are.
 and so uh mayor jordan i just felt really compelled to say this because i've been struggling a little bit because i've heard some things and um i won't go into that because that's not important what is important is for us to pay attention to the details that are presented before us tonight and think about the various things that we've done
 to amplify the voices and tend to the needs of the African American community. Emma? How much time do you need, Yondra? How much time do you need? I would ask the council to at least give me 15 minutes. Okay. I will try to be brief. Okay. Good evening, council members. I'm Yondra. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center. I'm the director of the African American Community Development Center.
 Attorney Williams, Jonathan, Britton, all the people from the Spout Springs community that showed up tonight. I appreciate everybody being here and being present. And I would also like to say thank you to those of you who extended your condolences last week. I do appreciate you. So today is an opportunity to really just reestablish why we're here. This is a process.
 This is a request for the city to sign for properties that you own in the designated or the outlined historic district.
 I want to start with chronological order of how this all started. And I think that's important to establish why we're here and what this process has looked like to date. And that is in order to make sure information is being told accurately and there is no miscommunication about what is happening. In August, I was retained by Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage to spearhead the effort to create a historic district in what we are calling Spout Springs.
 That consists of a little over 698 lots as listed by the county. In the course of doing this work, I've had to work closely with the city, both the city attorney as well as city planning. And in that process, it is set forth by the state constitution that I reach a majority of signatures.
 That is part of the process. I was also required to put together a petition that lists out all of the legal language for the process at hand. That information has also been shared with the city. And we did not start signature collection until we knew that the language was appropriate. So I appreciate all the questions
 about the petition, the petition language. And I also like to cite that that language was adopted from a previous attempt to create a historic district here in Fayetteville. So it is not new language, it is adopted language amended to reflect the respective area and the designated zone that we are calling Spouse Springs Historic District.
 In addition to that, it is my job to therefore organize community, create a number of efforts to educate, and with that we did. Because this is a very focused effort and not everybody in the city is allowed to sign, only those that are property owners, we had to have a very strategic approach.
 We have organized and pulled together a series of canvassers. We're so far up to 144 signatures of some 698.
 Once we started this process, it was made clear that because of the state of this respective area, there are far more developers in the area that own multiple properties. And I am saying to the tune of three plus all the way up to 42 properties, which means I am forced to interact with those who own multiple properties. The city happens to be one of those owners, the county also, as well as Fayetteville School District.
 But because we have worked so closely with the city, I thought it important to bring forth a resolution to the city to request those signatures. But allow me to be clear. Tonight we are working to create the precedent for how historic districts are incorporated here in the city of Fayetteville. This is a historic effort. We have not as a city been successful in creating historic districts.
 So any historic district beyond this effort, I am expecting that you will use this historical records to reflect on how the process has taken place.
 I will also like to let you know that this work does not just happen with me at Impact Period. It happens with the city as well because your elected officials, those appointed to your historic commission, all have required additional education and training on what it takes to bring this to life. This does not just happen with me.
 which means resources are limited. We cannot hold people hostage all day, but what we can count on is them and their sense of civic responsibility to step up and be educated through the course of this process. So I will get to the issue at hand. The request that I sent over was for 42 properties to be signed for from the city.
 That resolution, as I have noted, Attorney Williams, is that it is now reduced down to only eight properties around the Yvonne Richardson Center. The formal request is for 42 properties as listed by the county to be signed. Therefore, an amendment is required to the resolution that has been put before you.
 First Amendment, I will request is that I am not the party bringing this issue to you, but Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage who has retained me.
 Emma Willis as an individual resides in Rogers, Arkansas. I work on behalf of an organization that is based here in Fayetteville. So I would please prefer to ask that that be corrected. In addition to that, I am asking that the city please give me causation or reason why the 42 properties have been reduced down to eight.
 And if we can amend that tonight, I would like for the resolution to reflect that it is 42 properties. And Jonathan, I believe we have a map that we can share with them so that they can see where all 42 properties are. And they will be highlighted in pink.
 Some of these areas are easements, some of them can't be developed, but because of how the county looks at it and because that's where the verification will come from, I have to make all of this reconcile and work in harmony.
 So it is my request that the city, in fact, amend the resolution to reflect Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage as the party bring forth the request for the resolution, as well as that the properties be listed as the 42 properties listed under the Washington County Clerk's Office as real estate owned by the city of Fayetteville. Okay, so...
 You're requesting an amendment. I am requesting an amendment is to change over to the Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage. It is a 501c3 registered under the federal government. Okay. So they will be the primary sponsors of who we're working with. Yes, correct.
 and you wanted to amend it to change from 42 to 8 or from 8 to 42 as the resolution reads right now it lists out the yvonne richardson center of property is held by the city of fayetteville however i am requesting that all 42 of those little pink dots on that map be what i'm requesting signature for okay so kid
 Mayor, I can't agree with that from a legal point of view. When the historic district is looking at property owners, in my opinion, that means someone that owns property they can live on or have a business, and the business would be a property, or the Yvonne Richardson Center would be one property that the city owns. It's used altogether, and so the property owner would be the city.
 the little slivers that are out there of easements that are not buildable the historic district statute I don't think had ever thought that that would be counted as a property owner the it's I can I can tell you the statute is not crystal clear who a property owner is there are certain issues there I thought the safest thing to do would be
 to consider a property owner having a developable lot or a house already on that which is one other way it can be looked at that all these developmental lots that aren't developed are they really should they be counted as a property owner for each separate one of them so our developer has a whole bunch of lots and he gets to be have eight ten thirty votes when there's nobody living on it well i'm willing to say if it's a developmental lot they should probably have a property owner's vote
 But for undevelopable lots like easements and slivers that cannot be developed, you can't live on that. The reason they are requiring property owners to vote on this is because these are the people going to be affected. The people that are living there or working there, not somebody that is sitting on an easement that can't be there.
 So I can't agree with this amendment. I think that in reality the only property that Fayetteville has that the city of Fayetteville owns is Yvonne Richardson Center, and that's a unit. It's the Yvonne Richardson Center. It's not seven houses in the Yvonne Richardson Center. It is the Yvonne Richardson Center.
 And so, just from the legal point of view, I think that would be a mistake to try to divide it up into eight. I think it would be a mistake to try to count all these slivers of easements that cannot be built on as separate property owners that should be counted in this. I just don't think that's the proper interpretation of the...
 of the historic district commission statute. I don't think that that meets with the spirit of that. Why would you give a raw piece of land there a vote when no one's ever gonna live there? And can't live there and can't build on it. So I think that,
 That is something I can't agree with. And that's, I can tell you, this has not been to a court that I've seen, though. I haven't seen a court interpretation of exactly what that means. It's funny, there's an old Arkansas Attorney General opinion
 promoted or presented by that famous Attorney General Bill Clinton, and he said, oh it's clear, and this is real easy, not difficult to understand. Well there are very many issues in it. I have to disagree with the former President on that, that there are lots of different ways to look at that.
 And so I've had discussions with staff about that, and I guarantee you none of my discussions have said an easement sitting over there that no one can live on is a separate property that needs to get a right to vote. And I think that that just is contrary to the whole reason for the Historic District Commission to require property owner signature. People that are actually going to be affected by this, not an easement, but it will have no effect.
 So I can't agree with the proposed amendments. May I respond to that? And I appreciate you, Attorney Williams, but what I will say is I have to adhere to the Constitution and what this process says for it.
 There is no language that I've seen that allows the county to determine between the two pieces of property. I just know that I am held to a very strict number as laid out by the state. There are over 698 parcels inside of this historic district, which means that I am required to reach a majority of signatures based off of that number.
 If your opinion holds, then am I allowed to reduce the number of signatures that I am therefore required? I think that's absolutely correct because it's not the number of parcels in the district. It's the number of property owners there. And you have to look. Many times parcels are together, and oftentimes no one's living on one. It's all part of around the house.
 And that, to me, means that house, no matter how many parcels might be around it, is entitled to a single vote and that's all you're required to obtain, too. You don't have to count all these parcels that don't have anybody living on them and are not developable.
 So then my question is, how do I approve that prior to collecting these signatures before a packet has to go on to the state? Because they're looking at verified signatures and what we've been doing is making sure that we pull this together in a way where we are not stopped or slowed down because of a technicality.
 Maybe the request is that we get a response from the AG's office on how these properties are viewed before the packet has to come Before you and move on to the state for approval I'd be all in favor of having a new Attorney General opinion because I think the original opinion Was way too simplistic and didn't really look at the issues here I mean you've got issues about what if one parcel is
 is owned by eight people. Does that mean there's eight votes or does that mean one vote? Correct. So it's really not clear under the law. And I think an attorney general opinion here would be very helpful to hopefully guide us and give us better direction here. I'd rather do that than try to make decisions myself. Everybody, here's what I got. Emma's got the floor right now. She had it for 15 minutes, but I know that we've been sparring back and forth here. So,
 I know you brought up the question of the amendment so I thought we needed to address that but I would like to give you another five minutes or so to restate my request. Other thoughts that you have and then I'll open it up to the council all right. Go ahead. All right I appreciate that. So my request
 Attorney Williams, would then therefore be that I get additional clarification as how the state views these properties? And if they are undevelopable, then will the state therefore reduce the number of signatures required? Without a doubt, they'd have to.
 Well, I just want it to be on record, and if we can get that response from the AG's office, I would appreciate it. I'd also like to state that we'll continue doing our work to collect these signatures until we get that response back from the AG's office. So therefore, my request is to table the resolution until that response has been returned to the City Council.
 That is pretty much it. And then, Mayor, if there are any additional questions for me at this time. Well, the only, so you want to now table the resolutions until we get an Attorney General's opinion? I would like to table until we have a formal response from the Attorney General's office regarding how the lots are viewed. Okay.
 what we need to do here. Okay, you've got another three minutes if you have anything else. I will take any questions. I do know a few council members had questions of me. I'm happy to take some of those right now. Okay. Tracy, I thought you saw your line first, then Bob, and then DeAndre.
 thank you mayor and thank you for being up here tonight ms willis um my big question is have you spoken with the state historic preservation officer in little rock so
 So we have an event coming up February 15th, and it's pretty much statewide. We've had a tremendous outpouring of community support, so we will be taking up space all day at Crystal Bridges, inviting the entire community out to listen to this entire project from the state's perspective, the practitioners of historic preservation, as well as what the visioning process has to look like. And that's an effort for more community input and feedback on that.
 The reason why I ask this is because there's so many historic districts within Arkansas and even within the city here. And I'm sure that those ideas have been addressed, the issues of easements and undeveloped property. And so I...
 would guess, I'm pretty certain of this, that all of that has been decided early on in it and has some precedent there that could give this clarity to the issue that's before us tonight. And that's a great question. And so I'd like to clarify, and Britton, I think you're in the room, I may need some verification here, but I do not believe there is technically a historic district in the city of Fayetteville.
 Well, there is. There's one out at the White Hanger. But again, this is sort of a state institution in the sense of historic districts. But there's hundreds across the state. And I'm sure that they've decided whether right-of-ways could be included or not as parcels. And so I don't think
 I would guess that you don't need a decision from the Attorney General. You just need better clarification and guidance from the State Historic Preservation Officer. Instead of me answering that, I would ask that Britton give her opinion on that.
 Well, right now, you have the floor. Just me? Okay. I have the floor. Let me keep it in some kind of order here. That's just my suggestion. Okay. And I appreciate your suggestion. I am trying to look at historic districts that have had this type of population and try to do apples to apples versus trying to go as far out to other areas in the state. But I do understand the question. They should all be consistent and standardized. So...
 that maybe not that was the prayer that was a prayer now bob you had something is this just for questions for emma or is this general questions because i have some questions for kit and and some people well you're going to ask questions of kit and emma not during her time so i i don't really have any uh questions for him
 in particular I want to say thank you thank you yes absolutely yes direct questions okay just checking DeAndre yes Emma thank you so much for again your hard work and being here tonight uh considering the circumstances that you've experienced with your sister my question is timeline and I'm sure you've shared this before but if you could can you uh tell us what timeline are we looking at and if we reach out to the
 Would that have any impact on the timeline? That opinion is sheerly around precedent. My work is done holistically and not with a single project in view. Everything has to do with what future work will look like. And so I am it's very clear. And I think this goes back to Councilwoman Turk's question is I just wanted to be clear
 with the city of Fayetteville, what the actual requirements are. Nobody's desire is to spend their time and resources going back and forth with the state for clarification. And so it's my job to seek as much clarity as possible right now in the course of this process. In terms of us wanting to collect signatures and have a packet ready for the city to review and push on to the state,
 that looked like me wanting to have this wrapped by the end of March, which was a realistic timeline. However, once we hit the ground in that area, we realized how many...
 of those lots were owned by single individuals. And again, I just reinforced that they're individuals holding three or four properties. I have already spoke with the majority property owners. And again, that is the city, that is the county, St. James Baptist Church.
 the school district, those are all your largest property holders. And anytime you have a situation like that, most people are going to go with the game of odds and try to attempt to get your majority property holders before having to go out and touch so many individuals.
 So, it's really more about the approach and the method and the means in which we choose to collect those signatures and making sure that future efforts to create historic districts are guided with all the necessary insight to how we do it so that we don't have to do this back and forth. And that's just how I intend to work. I don't like redundancy. So I would appreciate clarification.
 Another concern is running the risk of signing, maybe signing too many times, and then somehow having the signatures not validated causing a delay. Those are concerns for me. So I mean, and of course that can be made in honest error. And allow me to offer you some clarity there. So we have a
 list that is provided from the county by way of your city planning. It is the list.
 And that list corresponds with each respective lot, which is how I end up here today knowing that the city has 42 by the county's record. And so our job is to be very focused and attentive about going to property owners' doors, making sure that they are in fact the property owner. Verification happens in person, which is how we know how many doors we've knocked on and met renters versus actual property owners.
 We are just trying to be, again, fairly meticulous on the signature collection process so that we can avoid any of those unnecessary like rubs or dismissals of signatures. And Emma, could you share with the council, when you engage with the Residence Award one about this process, what have they said?
 I think I want to start off with one of our first meetings with property owners. And I believe there have been previous efforts to do things in a spouse-breeding community, and most did not believe that this is something that could happen. So the first thought is, oh, wow, the city would actually do something like this. We've
 And all this time, there's not been anything like this. And then you're also met with the excitement of being able to bring opportunity to community that is actually striving to be community. We look at that area and we know how much new development has gone in against those who have been there some time. And there's an effort to try to merge those voices, those views, those people, and create a sense of community.
 And so historic districts have a way of giving everyone a sense of pride and understanding of where they are, who has called this land home, and what they can do to continue to uphold, take care of, and respect that history for future generations.
 I have not been met with any dismissal or concern. Of course, you have literature floating around that tries to go out and punch holes in what historic districts typically do. I can tell you I have not been met with any of those complaints. Always happy to engage in conversation because that's how I do better.
 I welcome any questions, any concerns associated with the creation of a historic district. Also happy to bring in any examples of historic districts that are doing really well. And not any two historic districts look the same.
 And so I think the first job is to remove this idea that these things are monolith. It looks like one way, they function one way, they do not, which is why most of this process involves the city at large. You are the partner in helping us draft what the end result of this historic district looks like. Emma cannot wave her magic wand
 and create the precedent in which this community resides under. I can't do the planning. This is why we have our historic commission. This is why you get community feedback, and we have an opportunity in this process for community to come in.
 and give their thoughts and concerns about the process. And so I am transparent. I want to be open about it. And that is why I'm here seeking understanding and any clarification that is necessary to keep us moving this process along. Emma, when we think about the historic district of Spout Springs, I remember having a conversation. I believe it was
 Tommy, and she's here tonight. And they were telling me about how at one point that community was booming economically. And so when I look at this, the why, the historic preservation contributes to job creation, development, and income generation directly and indirectly. And that's something that board one certainly needs, especially African-Americans overall.
 Then when we look at small business benefit from historic preservation, and then when we look at historic preservation, foster civic pride and identity by encouraging interest in local history. And I think that another concern, of course, is talking with numerous African Americans being concerned about gentrification, being concerned about being prized out of their homes. So what this does, this is a...
 gives opportunity. It does. We've been giving a lot of things here in Fayetteville. We've been giving a lot of proclamations, and thank you Mayor Jordan, but we're not
 but we need to we need to be given opportunities may i also include the fact that this project does not just look like the historic district it also looks like the work that is required within the community to make sure that all our property owners are educated and feel comfortable knowing what comes next in the next few weeks we have community clinics that will be led by the university of arkansas school of law as well as a couple of area laws uh
 a couple of area firms that will lead the property owners in clinics to make sure that their property is held in the most upstanding way. So estate planning, all these things are coming along with the creation of this historic district. And I think this comes from most of my work in government that I've done historically, is knowing that sometimes we glaze over the issues that have been there and we just try to implement something new.
 We are working from the ground up, which means I know most of the black property owners that are sitting behind me. It also means that tomorrow I am at St. Paul talking about the historic district and they'll reverse educate me on Teresa Hoover and the different people who have come out of this area. This is not limited to a single population, a single look, a single block. This is the community at large.
 I only know how to build in one way and it's responsibly, which means from the foundation up everybody is brought along on this journey. Nobody is left out and I am encouraging actually doubling down because you all have my personal email. I need to reinforce that. That is not my work email address. I have made myself available.
 available. And when I shared that email address, I absolutely meant it. And I believe council members know when I say that I'm highly communicative, you know that. On the day my sister passed, I made sure that information was shared back to this council to make sure we were all on the same page. I take my work very seriously.
 And so what I am asking you is to understand when I say we are setting a precedent, I am very clear of what's happening here. I don't want anybody else to have to come along and have an effort to create a historic district and they get slowed down by these little miscommunications or misinterpretations because we understand the state understands it one way, we're here on the ground, it looks another way. I need clarification because I do not want my clients' resources.
 to be wasted. And that is at the end of the day, me knowing that she is operating and that organization is operating with limited resources. So it is my job to ask and make sure that we are all clear about what's expected of me and how we proceed.
 So, Mayor, I am asking officially, this is my last comment, to table this resolution until we have an opinion from the AG's office that allows me to move forward with mass signature collection.
 from individuals or parties that own multiple parcels, whether that is a single signature execution, multiple signature execution against each lot, or whatever is deemed responsible. And I know we have to discover that. And so, again, I am your partner.
 I am a collaborator in the highest sense of all of that. I am expecting you all to feel comfortable and ask me questions directly when you have a shred of doubt about what is happening. I'm also asking you to invite me to the spaces where people may be seeking additional clarity because I may have a blind spot.
 But as far as I'm concerned, the churches, the people within that highlighted blue area on the map on your FAQs are my business right now. And I am making certain that they all understand this process inherently. Thank you. Okay, Scott had a question for you. Just a couple of questions. And number one, I want to applaud you for your transparency. It's been pretty impressive what you've done tonight. And thank you.
 But I don't want my questions to be construed that I oppose this whatsoever because I 100% support what direction you're going. I've got two questions because there seems to be some confusion about it seems like we have.
 Some that are saying we have multiple historic districts all over the state and others that are saying we're not. Some are restrictive, some are just kind of in name only. Are you asking for this district to be one that is governed by rules and regulations associated with the state requirements?
 That is correct, because I was also seeking that the community receives the benefits of CED incorporation. Okay. So, in my email that I sent you, and again, I apologize that you responded during your moment of grief, but I appreciate that, but one thing I would ask, since we do have a window of time while we're awaiting this Attorney General's opinion, I'd like to
 hear, you know, hard and fast, okay, what's the state guidelines that they're going to require us to
 Because as a city council member, I feel like before I sign something for the city, authorizing the mayor to sign something, if I put myself as a property owner, if I had a property in that district, I would want to know what standards I'm going to be held to before I sign off on to it. Again, I 100% support the direction you're going, but that was just one of the 
 the questions I had. And I'll be honest, that question is not answerable tonight. And the reason that question cannot be answered because we have to uphold the process.
 That process does not let me get to answer your question until we've moved past signature collection and we've moved past the Historic Preservation Commission of the state being able to review that packet. And then it comes back to council for vote. Beyond that, it then goes to your Historic Commission and the brilliant brain of planning to help assist in outlining what that overlay district will look like.
 So in terms of restrictions, in terms of things that property owners would have to adhere to, I do not have an answer for that. And unfortunately, that's just a part of the process. I really can tell you the spirit in which we're entering this. And because I say an overlay district, it should be known that anybody who's already there and existing is not penalized or harmed by this process.
 It is about future builds and future things that you will allow into your community. We also understand the economic position of the respective area. So for me to do anything extreme or for us to consider anything extreme would be harmful to the residents that currently inhabit that community.
 And so we are being vigilant. We are paying attention to the issues on the ground. We have a do no harm policy, and we also have a collaboration policy, which means we sit here and we listen to the guidance of the people you have entrusted within your historic commission to be able to help guide us and participate in the process of designing some of those projects.
 those correct that criteria outline or issues associated with future developments in real estate okay so let me recap a little bit of this now you want an amendment to make the uh northwest arnold black heritage the primary sponsor yes is that correct now we can do that
 I mean, we can do that. Now, the AG, I don't think you need, I don't think we need an amendment to get an AG's opinion. No, especially not since this is going to be tabled. And I will also share with you some of my previous thoughts that I've discussed with the staff about how you count, who counts and how do you count the property owners. There are several issues in there, which hopefully the Attorney General might be able to clarify later.
 But I'll share you what I was talking about because you have cases where there are many owners of one piece of property or one owner of many pieces of property. And so how do you decide which is right and how many people get to count and how many you have to then collect? So those are issues that.
 Maybe the state historic person has an answer for that, but it has to be the kind of district we're trying to do, not the other districts that we have here, which are all federal districts with no enforcement powers and don't have the same requirements.
 So anyway, I will share that with you and I'll be happy to hear any input you have back on that. Thank you. Go ahead, Teresa. Kit, there are many other federal or state historic districts that have ordinances behind them in other cities in Arkansas.
 I'm really confident a phone call or two down to Little Rock with the state historic preservation officer will clear a lot of this up. So I know Fayetteville's a little different. We're different because we only have one historic district that has that kind of protection. But they're all over the state. Hot Springs, Conway, Texarkana, they're everywhere. So I believe this has been addressed before. Okay. Okay. And...
 i think that is that all we have for uh mo i believe okay i would also like to bring up britain bostick says she's been the point of contact from the staff that wants to give you some other information and then we'll open it up for the public and then decide on amendments and all that other wonderful things that we'll do here
 Thank you, Mayor, and good evening Council on Britain Bostock with Long Range Planning and then the City of Fayetteville that includes historic preservation. My colleague Sherry Griffith is also here. Just if it's helpful, we're the point of contact for the State Preservation Office. We are also the point of contact if there is a federally funded or federally regulated project that has to evaluate impacts to federally identified historic sites, like sites on the National Register of Historic Places.
 And so what may be helpful for the council if I just quickly go through what historic districts are, there's kind of two varieties of them and then or less sir and then just give you all a little bit of technical information and I'm happy to answer questions.
 So we do have quite a few National Register districts in Fayetteville and this is what Mr. Williams was talking about, the federal districts. So we have 11 at this point in Fayetteville which is pretty impressive. You see six on the map and then you can also be individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places and we have about 70 of those properties currently in Fayetteville.
 So this is the official list of the nation's historic places worthy of preservation And they're managed through the National Park Service who is the final reviewer for those The properties have to be at least 50 years old associated with important events in American history And then the nominations are submitted to the state preservation office Once the property owner has agreed to it it goes to the federal the
 kind of piece the National Park Service and the official listing is a formal recognition unfortunately that's all it is the only protections that come with this are if you have a federally funded or federally regulated project
 review for potential impacts. That's very different from what's being proposed today, which is a local historic district, what also in Arkansas is called a local ordinance district. And so that requires some very specific pieces. The state says here's what you have to have in order to move this forward. A petition of property owners, so you've heard that discussed a lot tonight. That is the first piece on the list.
 Also, the Historic District Commission for Fayetteville would need to make an investigation and report on the historic significance of the buildings, structures, features, sites, or surroundings of the proposed historic district. So the HDC, which Long Range Planning supports, would have some homework to do on this as
 HDC would have to hold a public hearing on the proposed historic district. And so those are some important steps that as we go through this process we would need to take even once the petition is finalized.
 HDC will issue a report to you all, so you would have the opportunity to see this in its entirety and that includes four really important pieces. They have to do this within 60 days of that public hearing, so you kind of have to have it ready to go for the public hearing and then ready to transmit to the council.
 It's a complete description of the area to be included in the historic district that's written out, then a map of the district boundaries so you can see a picture of it, the proposed ordinance to implement the historic district so what language goes in the city's code,
 This is a little bit broad, such other matters as HDC seems necessary and advisable. And after the council receives that report, you have three options under the state code. You can accept the report and adopt the ordinance. You can return it to HDC with comments and requests for revisions and they'll reconsider it and have to send it back to you all in 90 days. You can also reject the report and discharge the commission on the matter.
 21 Arkansas cities including Fayetteville currently have local historic districts and there are 26 in the state. Some cities have more than one.
 And the key piece that I think the council is looking for and has questions about, and this might answer your question, Councilmember Berna, the historic district design guidelines are the document that says here is how we want changes to be considered in our district. It has standards for everything from windows to roofs to awnings. It depends on your community.
 what your design guidelines look like. So we have two sets of design guidelines in Fayetteville already even though we have one White Hanger historic district. So we have a set of guidelines that are specific for the White Hanger and that's the only place they apply to. So if we make exterior changes to the White Hanger this is what would be looked at. We also have a Washington Willow historic district design guideline set. We got the guidelines, the district didn't quite make it but we do have a set of what
 were essentially best practices for our Washington Willow National Register Historic District at this point. We can either use these as a guideline and use these as a point of reference, or the Spout Spring Historic District could be considered to have entirely different design guidelines once we've gone through what would be appropriate for that particular neighborhood.
 I will close by saying I have additional map resources if that is of interest to the council but I did hear a question about numbers so I will go through those. By my count we are at 705 total parcels. As you heard 42 of those are city owned, 12 are associated with the YRCC.
 There are approximately 738 buildings in the proposed district according to our current count in GIS. This is approximately 200 acres in size with about a million square feet of building footprints, not building area but building footprints.
 We have on record 32 commercial business licenses, 15 demolition permits have been issued over the 2020 to 2023 period and approximately 250 building permits from 2004 to 2023. And that includes new construction alterations and additions. That is essentially the number of applications that may or may not be required to come to the historic district commission if there were to be a local historic district. Thank you, Mayor. I'm happy to answer any questions.
 Thank you, Breton, for that information. One of my questions was, because there was talk of the process and making signatures before there's the determination of what the district actually maybe allows or disallows.
 guess these vary the guidelines and specifications vary by each historic district and so can you help us with a variety of what I know we've talked a little bit in the past I think in other conversations about Tulsa and other areas that have established certain districts and so I would imagine that it may not even be that it would talk to the building specifics that it might talk to the way in which something maybe is redeveloped and more like maybe
 larger generalities possibly but it's through that body and maybe that's an incorrect assumption so I just wanted to kind of get clarity about the range of types of things that this district could be that it maybe could be super specific but maybe it might be more more broad whether or not it's speaking more to like economic mobility and different like pathways for the community or honoring of certain areas of that geography kind of want to talk to like the variety of that could maybe
 come through this process. Thank you. So this is typical not only of Arkansas, but of other states that I'm familiar with or have worked in as well. So, but Arkansas in particular, I think it's good for us to pay close attention because that's,
 If you have design guidelines adopted for a historic district that was passed, you have gone through the process already which includes sending a report to the state and having them give you comments on that. And so out of the cities in Arkansas that have local historic districts, they all focus pretty specifically on the buildings themselves. And the design guidelines often give you background and history. They might lay out, you know, the kind of philosophical reasons why you would have a
 preservation or historic district protections, but they ultimately land on what kinds of changes through the built environment can occur. And it was really interesting, there are at least four cities in Arkansas that focus on the front facade of buildings only or what's visible from the street, and that's Batesville, Benton, Blytheville, and Eureka Springs.
 What's a little more interesting is that Little Rock, Texarkana and Conway focus on site design features as well as the building. So with site design we're thinking about fences or retaining walls or potentially landscape features and their design guidelines include specifics for how that's supposed to look based on the specific historic district area where that was adopted.
 cities like Eldorado, Osceola, Pine Bluff, Russellville and Van Buren don't have an exemption and essentially require 360 degree review of any changes to a building or for new construction or demolition. And then Rogers and Hot Springs do something that's a little bit different, they categorize changes to a property kind of by the intensity of the change, everything from you're just
 painting the same paint color you already had, all the way to you're either demolishing or building a brand new house. And so they have review standards that are more based on a category ranking of the nature of the work than they do kind of what the work is specifically. Even though they have standards for normal things like what kind of how to treat your brick or how to treat your historic windows,
 Roof replacement is a big one. Some historic districts are commercial in nature and they regulate signs. Did that help? Thank you. I just was wanting to talk through the breadth that it could be or that it could be much more narrow. Through the process is how we arrive at that. I guess the other question, just a follow-up to that I have.
 Do you, as far as a process, do different cities with the variations that have happened, do they typically do the signature creation at the, like while that's going through process? Do they wait until the reports are done and then collect the signatures? Is there a best practice? Is it done multiple different ways? Not that I've been able to find. Some of these were adopted as far back as 2008.
 So you may not have people, they don't put all this online and you may not have the staff there so I wasn't able to quickly find that information. What you could probably do is the petition collection and the report that the HDC has to create.
 which is essentially looking at the character of the historic district, figuring out what its qualities are, what's of architectural importance, what's significant to the community, what are the things that are part of that historic district. That report could probably, you could be doing that work at the same time you're gathering petition signatures.
 And really if you look at the work of both the Black Heritage Preservation Commission and the Historic District Commission over the last several months, probably at least six months, they've essentially been doing that work. We talk a lot about history. We talk a lot about where structures came from and what their associations are. And we do research with our commissions so that they're really well informed and prepared to go through that process of doing a report. The grant application that the council approved us submitting for a few months ago, we did
 a few months ago for the state grant actually seeks to get additional assistance to do that work, that research work that gives us a really strong foundation for looking at establishing a historic district. I'm really hoping that I get to come to y'all in about a month with good news about that. And so it's not that you have to have a consultant do it, but it can certainly help.
 And a lot of cities do hire consultants, not only to help them with that research work, but also to develop those design guidelines. If you look at them, you'll see a lot of consulting names on those documents. They're usually professionally prepared. Teresa. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Britt. All right. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Okay, and then I'll come back to us. Oh, no, no, Bob, you go ahead. Yeah, I mean, I didn't have any questions for any, but any in particular. No, I didn't see your, I'm sorry, I didn't see your line. Yeah, I had some comments, so. Go ahead. Thank you, everybody. There's too many people to thank. You know, Emma Britton, Councilmember Jones, the Signature Gatherers, NWA Black Heritage, and so on and so forth. It's going to be a long list at the end of the day when we do get this through, and I
 I want to make sure we know this is a process and step one is getting the signatures. But as Britton just mentioned, this is a long process. It's not one and done. And I want to make sure that we're not too afraid of going into the process. You're not signing the devil's deed here.
 And to me, this is too important to fail because we have an unanswered concern. So I do want to make sure that, you know, if you have concerns, let's figure out what those concerns are. Let's get those concerns answered. Let's do our research and our due diligence and make sure that when we do go through this
 that we do it very thoughtfully. This is, again, to me, this is a very close to my heart. I am all for this. I ran on this when I was running. I got nothing but support, not just from the black community, every community in Womb One, everybody in that neighborhood. The concern I got was, am I gonna be inside the border of it? You know, and people wanna make sure they were inside.
 I met with Emma back in October. We ended up talking, I don't know, it seemed like a couple of hours, an hour and a half, two hours. She gave me a really good description of what this entailed and what this project was. And the maps and everything. I know there were concerns about the signature sheet.
 that people are being asked to sign and if it really laid out what they were signing up for. And yes, it does and I'd be glad to share it. I have a couple at home, I meant to bring them. But I think we should all have a copy of that and hopefully some of us will gather some signatures for it. I hope we get these questions answered. I just wanna make sure Kit that when we do that, if we're saying that, oh, a property owner could only sign once, I wanna make sure that that means that that overall number
 and you seem to say that that the overall number would be reduced the required number would be reduced it's a majority of the property owners so that when you have a smaller number that are eligible obviously you have a smaller number that you have okay great um yeah i mean this is going to be good for the neighborhood uh it's going to be good hurt for my ward and it's going to be good for everyone in the neighborhood i know we've been concentrating on
 the black homeowners and everything, this is gonna be good for everyone there. And it's gonna be an economic driver. And I've been so excited about this. I can't tell you. And I had a lot of stress about this. This last week I lost some sleep because I was worried it's like, I don't wanna see this sink before we even have a chance to, like I said, it's a process. I don't want to sink the process before we have a chance to get it going.
 And I feel, you know, I know that other council members have ideas for other historic districts. And so I want to make sure we, let's get one done. Let's get one started, get one done, and then yeah, I'm all for more.
 I think that's, you know, the majority of what I had to say. I'm going to be an advocate for this. I will gather signatures for this. I will help people understand this. And I'm so excited about this and so thrilled with the hard work that's been done and that's continuing to be done. And I think we can do it. But it is going to be  it's not going to be quick. So thank you. Okay. Now let's take some public comment. Okay.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak now mind you this will probably be tabled of some Sort and I you know, we may have another amendment. I want to be sure I've got that correct But everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member Stay on topic Please give us your name and address and those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first Those participating by zoom will speak after that. Yes, I
 Good evening, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is Tommy Flowers-Davis. I live at 106 North Willow Avenue. I'm a Fayetteville native and I attended public schools at Fayetteville High. I graduated from Fayetteville High and
 They even respected my judgment when I said I need to go to college after my junior year, and they allowed me to do that. So I have a lot of investment in this city, and my roots run really deep. I'm both vested and invested in my neighborhood. My neighborhood has a lot of beauty, as all of you know.
 And some of it is undiscovered, like a diamond in the rough. So I just want us to make sure that we're given an opportunity. We have two or three districts, historic districts, that border our neighborhood, but we're not included in any of those districts. But now it's time. It's time for our neighborhood to become that beacon and shine our light on a great community.
 I'm here to support this project and thanking you in advance for supporting and your interest in this project moving forward. Our community is becoming a historic district. Will only complement the city of Fayetteville, making Fayetteville probably the first in the state.
 to capture in a formal manner the history of its black citizens and community. And I think that's a great, it's exciting. And I certainly plan to be a part of this project and I certainly think it will not only help our community, but the city of Fayetteville will also reap great benefits from this project.
 So, thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. How are you? My name is Monique Jones. I reside in the city of Fayetteville, 2620 North Westminster Drive. I stand before you today understanding that this resolution may be tabled until we find out information about how many signatures need to be collected.
 And I just want to encourage you to do your research as well and reach out to Ms. Willis if you have additional questions. Therefore, we can move forward with this resolution. I do understand about the parcels and the votes, but understand that this resolution
 has an adverse impact to us about how many signatures that she needs to conduct from the community when it's finally decided so I just move that this council consider everything that's been put before you today and just make sure you're doing your due diligence work on the side as Miss Willis continues hers thank you thank you who else would like to address
 Good evening council members. My name is Veronica Huff. I live on Chestnut Avenue. I am a Fayetteville native born and raised. I have served my country and now I serve my community. Presently and more presently and more specifically I serve my community. For the past 10 years Fayetteville's identity has been undergoing a crisis. A bit of bit by bit discouraging bit developers come to Fayetteville and have been allowed to swindle into South Fayetteville especially the historic areas and harm the unity in community.
 I stand in support of preserving Spout Springs, a historic black neighborhood. I ask you to halt further gentrification, not development. The houses do not fit nor flow with the essence of that bill.
 I ask you to halt further gentrification in these areas and truly honor slash collaborate with the community in preserving this neighborhood as well as surrounding ones. I ask you to personally reflect on what you have done for the black, indigenous, and all the people of color in this area to preserve history, to honor the foundation of Fayetteville, and to provide safe spaces for BIPOC. Look at Springdale, Bentonville, Rogers every week, if not month, I'm seeing safe and collaborative spaces created and built.
 All the way to Jonesboro, a black historic district has been honored. I ask you to remember your 2050 vision for the city. Diverse, growing local economy, natural, beautiful cities, ecosystem preservation, well-maintained city infrastructure, and so forth. I ask for, like with the developing areas...
 or gentrified areas, even though people don't live on those plots or those lands, those could be where native plants are, mini park spaces and everything for collaboration and unity, black artist spaces, BIPOC spaces, the list goes on. A lot of grants are found within that.
 This is the first step in honoring the voices of the community. This is the first step in uniting the community and healing the community. The first step in breathing life back into Fayetteville's true, loving, funky, and beautiful identity. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Okay, I'm going to bring back... Mayor, we've got a Zoom caller. I'm just fixing to say, do you have any Zoom? JL Jennings. Okay, go ahead, JL.
 Hello, my name is JL Jennings. I live in 1872 North Seminole Court here in Fayetteville. I'm also the chair of the Black Heritage Preservation Committee Commission. And in our last meeting, as we were getting updates from Britain regarding this project, many of the commissioners expressed their support for the project.
 We've talked about this several times in our meetings and as a commission, we unanimously support this project. I feel like it is very important to Fayetteville and to protect Fayetteville's history. So I just wanted to voice our commission support and my personal support for the resolution to be adopted. Okay, thanks, J.L.
 Yes, do you have I have no one else me? Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council I think the one thing that we can do is for an amendment is Primary sponsor be the Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage I think Emily that's what you wanted to do as an amendment. So I know we can do that tonight Can I go ahead and make that amendment now? Yeah, we can't yeah, you can't bring it back to y'all now. So okay, I would like to make the amendment and
 to state that the Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage Council, that they are the primary sponsors of the Black Historical History.
 yes yes i'll say yes that's what it is okay i'm sorry so the first whereas clause could say where emma's emma willis four or on behalf of the uh northwest sergeant so black hair okay and that would just be the change in the in the first uh whereas clause yeah right
 and we'll just put that in then we'll just move it right along and then we'll get some kind of timeline on where we're going to be at a certain time i mean i'll second that amendment by the way yes thank you bob i'll get to that in a moment let's go ahead and vote on that any any discussion on that uh carriage please call the road bench yes perk yes herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker?
 Yes. Vernon. Yes. Okay, good. So let me read what that would be and see if this is what you like. Whereas Emma Willis on behalf of the Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage and other concerned citizens are attempting to establish a historic district within Fayetteville entitled Spout Springs, Spout Springs Historic District and need to obtain a majority of number of property owners within the proposed historic district agreeing to their property shall be included in this district.
 Is that what you want now? Yes, sir. Thank you. Okay. That's been amended. Now let's discuss here.
 Who we're going to get an opinion from? I know that Teresa brought up the state historical. Mayor, I think that we have two ways to go, and I think we ought to probably approach both of them. Britain, I think, is our contact with the state heritage people, and I think that she should hopefully contact them and see if they have specifically addressed rules on this and who you count and who you don't count.
 And let's look and see what they say. There is a rule in the law that the agency that is administering a program, like the Historic District,
 But how they have done that in the past is good evidence about how the court should interpret that. So that would be important to know what they have done in the past. And after we hear that, which we should get a quick decision on, then we can decide whether or not we need to go to the attorney general and flesh that out or whether this is going to be enough.
 to fully answer the questions that we're all satisfied with. So that would be my suggestion is we do that one first. I totally agree with that because this could be a faster
 than going through the Attorney General sometimes. Understood. Understood. If you would be agreeable to that. I'm agreeable with that. Just one point, and it is really about the total number that is required or what majority looks like. I just want that to be explicit. Oh, yes. It has to be there. When you find the number of property owners, then you know what a majority is going to be. Yes. 50 plus 1.
 written, we will have you contact the state historical folks and then we leave it where it is right now until we get back with that. We can, you can, but we can collect, go ahead and collect signatures, is that correct? Because there's going to be a certain number, but I mean, it's going to
 You certainly know that anybody that is owning a house there is a property owner without any doubt. Single individual property owners, I would say we will still continue on that effort. It is those who own more than two properties that we have in question. And if the decision turns back that you can't use the ones that you can't build on the water, whatever comes up, then you won't have to give as many or you may have to get more.
 Mayor Jordan, Emma, is it possible, do we need to develop a timeline, let's say the next two weeks, or have this response in...
 Month or so I anticipate that the response would be turned around within this week My request is that this be table to the next agenda meeting so that we may present and make that Resolution and request for signatures from the city based off of how the state heritage Association or hope Arkansas State Heritage and preservation response Yes, sir acronyms
 So sounds like we're tabling this until the next Okay two weeks, okay, do we think that's realistic So we'll get you that answer and I don't know about the Attorney General. We'll see We have to do that. But anyway, we'll we'll see where we are in two weeks. All right. Thank you. Thank you so we table for two weeks and and
 We need a motion to table. I'll make a motion that we table for two weeks. Second. Can I pause? I have my light on. Sorry, I have a clarifying question to the city attorney. Sure. Thank you. I was just waiting for the floor.
 Would there be any harm? I guess my question is, you know, we're in Black History Month. We have a big audience tonight who's come out. We just had Racial Day of Healing. And so I'm curious, and I understand the intentions behind, you know, waiting to get some answers hopefully within the next couple of weeks. But would there be any harm if we approved at the higher number and it came back there was a revised number? Does that cause any potential harm or will we have to do a revision?
 Well, as your attorney, I don't look at whether it's going to harm something or not. I'm looking at is it legal. So I want to know what the legal answer is, and that's what we're going to probably find, hopefully, from the historic district at the state. Hopefully they have some written guidelines that they have used in the past that we can then use, and I'm going to assume that if they've used them in the past successfully, that that is probably legal, even though there are no court decisions on this.
 So, that, you know, I'm not going to look at whether it's going to make Emma's job easier or harder because I think we have to just do it right. Okay, well, two weeks. I think we're still in February, aren't we? We're still Black History Month. Hopefully February. So, we should have an answer back. Britt and I will make sure that we get some answers from the state folks and
 All right now we've already voted on the first amendment which is Northwest Arkansas heritage and now we'll vote this table correct somebody make a motion to table. That's right. Go ahead. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes.
 yes okay okay let's go ahead and get started again look the number four resolution to approve and adopt the urban forestry management plan John good
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. Every 10 years, we're required to analyze our urban forests. We have taken this opportunity to broaden what we're doing and to add a 10-year urban forestry management plan. We've completed the plan and received some feedback recently that we want to address and incorporate into the plan, including working across departments that have a role in urban forestry,
 The improvements will make the plan easier to read and follow, better illustrate how data was used, and strengthen and clarify some of the ties to the other city plans. We feel extra time for the 10-year plan will help bring better long-term results. We're requesting to be tabled until the August 6th City Council meeting so that we have plenty of time to make adjustments and have them reviewed internally, externally,
 and by Urban Forestry Advisory Board members. Thank you, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. So you want to table it until August 6th? Anybody have any disagreement with that? No, I'll make a motion that we table. Second. I have a motion and a second to table it until August 6th. Yes, sir. Is that correct? All right. Any comments or anything? Yeah, that's okay. That's okay. I didn't know she was gone. Well, we can. Anybody have...
 Well, if you'd like, I'll just check. Karen, on C4, I made a motion to table. And I don't know who's got second. Yeah, hang on. Let me see if anybody wants to say something about it.
 we'll take a public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating museum will speak after that so you want to wish to speak on this topic in here tonight anybody on zoom no sir okay we have a motion in the second table till august the 6th care would you please
 Fudge yes Yes, Hertzberg yes Yes, yes, yes More yes, we'd occur. Yes Yes, okay. Let's move along never fine an ordinance to amend
 111-07 outdoor refreshment area to amend the Heaven Hills outdoor refreshment area provisions and to create provisions for suspending or revoking a business disability to participate in the outdoor refreshment area kit.
 Whereas pursuant to Arkansas code annotated 1454-1412, the city has established both temporary and permanent entertainment districts called outdoor refreshment areas, permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces.
 And whereas the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area was created in part so that patrons of Mockingbird Kitchen could possess and consume alcohol beverages on an outdoor patio, and after three years of operation, Mockingbird Kitchen has requested an amendment to the ordinance which city staff supports to permit a customer to carry up to four alcoholic beverages from the restaurant to their table for other members of their party
 who have been verified to be of legal drinking age with an employee present. And whereas the City staff also recommends adopting provisions for suspending or revoking a business's ability to participate in an outdoor freshman area to ensure businesses are being good neighbors and adhering to all other federal or state or city ordinances. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal subsection E of section 111.07, Outdoor Refreshment Area of the Fayetteville City Code and enacts a new subsection E as follows. Subsection E, conditions for consumption of alcoholic beverages in the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area.
 Any owner within the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area may allow customers to exit the owner's premises during the regular hours of operation with alcoholic beverages and consume said alcoholic beverages anywhere within the confines of the outdoor refreshment area in which the alcoholic beverage was obtained, subject to the following regulations. Number one,
 It should be unlawful for a customer to enter any business regulated by the Arkansas Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission with any alcoholic beverage that was not acquired at that location.
 A customer may not enter any other establishment with an open or closed container of alcoholic beverage without the consent of the owner or management of the establishment. Number two, a customer may push it and exit the owner's premises and travel to an approved outdoor dining area with up to four alcoholic beverages as long as the beverages are for the customer and other individuals of legal drinking age in the same party and sitting at the same table as the customer.
 It shall be unlawful for a customer to distribute alcohol to any person under the age of 21. 3. No person shall publicly consume within an outdoor refreshment area any alcoholic beverage purchased outside of the outdoor refreshment area. 4. Beverages may be in containers made of glass, aluminum, plastic, or other materials. However, no container shall exceed 16 fluid ounces in size.
 At the City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enacts a new subsection J in 111.07 outdoor refreshment area of the Fayetteville City Code as follows. Subsection J, suspending or revoking a business's ability to participate in an outdoor refreshment area. Number one, grounds for suspension or revocation.
 A, valid complaints that the business is operating in a dangerously unsanitary or unhealthy manner or in such manner as to unreasonably and adversely affect the peace, health and safety of neighbors or other Fayetteville residents. B, the business is delinquent in submitting hotel, motel and restaurant taxes or city alcohol tax forms in the payment of the city's hotel, motel and restaurant taxes or any other city or state taxes or required fees.
 And C. The business is being operated in violation of any federal or state law or city ordinance or has had a necessary state or city license suspended or revoked. Number two, suspension or revocation. Upon finding sufficient grounds, the mayor or mayor's designee may do one of the following, depending upon the seriousness of the grounds and any previous actions against the business under this subsection. Number A, probation. Number two, probation.
 A business may be placed on probation status for not more than 90 days on condition that the grounds causing the problems will be remedied by the owner and not allowed to reoccur. If the owner complies with the probation, the probation status may be lifted with no further action taken.
 If the mayor or mayor's designee determines the owner has failed to correct the problems or no or new grounds for suspension role revocation have occurred the business shall be subject to an extended probationary period suspension or revocation of section B suspension a business may be suspended from participating in an outdoor freshman area program for a period of up to 90 days revocation of
 A business's ability to participate in an outdoor refreshment area program may be revoked. Upon revocation, a business shall not be eligible to participate in the outdoor refreshment area program for a period of at least one year, after which time it may submit a request to the City to return as a program participant.
 3. Notice, the Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall mail a letter to the business mailing address shown on its business license application by first class mail notifying the business owner of the suspension or revocation.
 The Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall also telephone the business owner using a business phone number provided in the business license application, as well as the emergency phone number if the owner cannot be reached on the business phone number, and provide the same information that is within the letter. Number four, appeal to the City Council. Any person or entity may appeal such suspension or revocation to the City Council.
 by providing the City Clerk's Office with a written request for City Council review within 10 business days of the issuance of a suspension or revocation. The City Council may then determine, after a public hearing in which the business license owner may present evidence and explanations, whether the business's ability to participate in the outdoor refreshment area program should be suspended for not more than 90 days, revoked because of the grounds presented, or that no suspension or revocation is warranted.
 Number five additional conditions after suspension or revocation The mayor or mayor's designee or if appeal the City Council My place additional conditions on any business that have been subjected to suspension or revocation Before the business is allowed to return as an outdoor refreshment area program participant Thank You mayor Thank You kit. I
 Good evening, Devin Howland, Economic Vitality, and as City Attorney Williams just outlined tonight, we're here to discuss two amendments. The first amendment is going to touch Evelyn Hills outdoor freshman area. The second amendment applies to all outdoor freshman areas, participants, etc. in future districts that may be created.
 So a little bit of background since it's been some time Fayetteville's first outdoor freshman area opened up in the summer of 2020 and while that seems like yesterday for some it also is four years ago without incident without a filing against a business without litter problems and um
 A big part of this and why I think we have a letter of support in your packet from the Downtown Fayetteville Coalition endorsing this revocation is they're very protective of this. They're making business decisions around this program and etc.
 Evelyn Hills, Amendment 1. First, I wanted to mention why this is needed. In downtown, this would not be a permissible something we would want to see, because in downtown you can walk off, and that's part of the program. In Evelyn, that is not the case, and there is a public sidewalk, not publicly owned, but accessible to the public, which is what ABC looks at, in between Mockingbird and their patio.
 And again, this, an employee has to be present, we have to be ID, and here's the journey that they will make. Across that, they're bumping about 16 feet. I have a feeling they're going to pull that off. In regards to the Second Amendment, I wanted to touch on, I wanted to stress again something I mentioned to you at agenda session.
 we are not having any non-compliance issues with the outdoor freshman area. It's working great. Events, sidewalk cafes, and the outdoor freshman area district, Centennial Park, et cetera. It's all working. And so, however, it's key to understand  it's key here, we're talking about being a good neighbor. And that's actually language the state uses in their regulations. And so we hope that ORR can be a tool, as with other things, that encourages businesses to be a good neighbor.
 And so, as the city attorney outlined, if a business is operating in an unsanitary or unhealthy manner, if they're delinquent on their taxes they owe to the city, or if they're operating any state, local, or federal, including oral rules, that's on our ordinances, we can again proceed with one of the three options that have been outlined. And as I mentioned to you in agenda session, I wanted to state it again. I have not come across a situation that I think would have warranted a suspension or a revocation.
 A few probations, you bet, but not moving on in regards to kicking somebody out of the program. The notification and process, and again, anybody can make an appeal. And so it could be a resident who's not happy, it could be the business owner themselves, and it could be you. And so those appeals that can take place, but again, I know that the language says, Mayor says unique. We've had a lot of internal conversations, and we feel it would be most effective if that is Police Chief Mike Reynolds sending that information to the business.
 mayor i am happy to answer any questions on these two amendments i have nothing further okay what questions do we have from the council anything yeah all right well let's take some public comment then everybody gets one term to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom
 speak after that is there anyone that would like to address this on this topic in the check have anybody on zoom yes sir okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what action would you like to take what discussion would you like to have I'd like to spend the rules move secondary second we have a motion second to go to the second read care of it please call the roll thanks yes
 Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. And ordinance amends section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to amend the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area provisions and to create provisions for suspending or revoking a business ability to participate in an outdoor refreshment area.
 make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second no motion second to go to the third and final reading here would you please call the role yes yes hertzberg yes stafford yes domes yes moore yes weedeker yes vernon yes
 In order to amend section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to amend the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area provisions and to create provisions for suspending or revoking a business's ability to participate in an outdoor refreshment area. Any final comments from the council? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Gertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Thank you very much. Number six, a resolution to order the raising and removal of the Laptop and unsafe structure on property owned by Mullins Property Management LLC CEO John Mullins
 located at 2141 North Green Acres Road in the City of Federal Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $10,644. Billy. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer for the City. I would like to begin my presentation with our raise and removal process.
 So it begins with a complaint, followed by an inspection to show validation of the complaint, followed by a notice of violation that we send to the property owner, letting them know of the violation and correction items and a time frame to get those completed. We give them a time frame. The abatement comes after that if there's no correction made, which is opening a bid for demolition of the structure. We send the property owner a notification of the city council hearing,
 uh followed by the hearing the next slide is a map the subject property is located at 2141 north green acres road between colt square drive to the north and east elm street to the south and is located in ward two staff is recommending the structure be raised and removed with a budget adjustment of ten thousand dollars ten thousand six hundred and forty four dollars now for some background on the property
 The issues at 2141 North Greenacres Road began on April 19, 2021, when a structure fire damaged the breaker box and forced the electric company to pull the electric meter at the single-family home. Staff inspection showed a large hole in the side of the home where the fire occurred. Along with the damage to the home, more violations were present. The large amounts of clutter inside the home posed risk for paths of egress and health.
 Large piles of junk and debris could be seen around the home and property. Multiple accessory structures were neglected and rotting. After speaking with then-property owner Rosemary Austin and Building Safety Director Dennis Sanders, the decision was made to open a junk and debris case only, given the owner's interest in making prompt repairs to the home and willingness to clean up the property.
 After six months of inspections showing limited progress to clean up the junk and debris and no progress on repairing the home, steps were taken to initiate the raising and removal of the structure. The first time this property was presented to Council for raise and removal was April 5, 2022.
 Council tabled the item three times in April, May, and July to afford the property owner time to make repairs. The last meeting this property was presented to Council was on September 6, 2022. At the September 6 Council meeting, staff recommended tabling the item indefinitely. The reason being, Ms. Austin sold the property to John Mullins of Mullins Property Management, LLC.
 In conversations with Mr. Mullins, he expressed plans for the property, including offsetting the cost of removing the structure with new development. Mr. Mullins was informed of interim expectations, including site cleanup and securing the structure. This was largely completed, affording the property owner additional time to establish redevelopment plans.
 The photos I'm going to show you here in early October of 2023 staff was notified that the dilapidated structure at 2141 North Green Acres road was still standing. And was experiencing vagrant activity staff performed an inspection and validated the complaint on October 16th, 2023.
 The property owner was then contacted, who confirmed the structure will not be demolished due to his redevelopment proposal not appearing feasible. Accordingly, the property owner was advised that a razor removal case will be opened against the property. This building is vacant. There is no electricity and no water. The floors, rafters, fascia, and soffit continue to rot. The building was broken into through the back door, leaving it open to the elements once again.
 In the event of a fire, there is no egress because every window is boarded up and the ceiling has completely fallen in, leaving a waist-high pile of attic insulation throughout the building. With this background and the current state of the property in mind, staff recommends approval of a raise and removal order for the single-family structure at 2141 North Greenacres Road, including a budget adjustment for $10,644.
 A question posed at agenda session regarding the budget adjustment, this is necessary to supplement the currently budgeted amount of $4,856 for code compliance to contract for removal of dangerous and dilapidated structures.
 Finally, staff would also like to bring to Council's attention the 2021 adoption by Fayetteville of the International Property Maintenance Code, specifically Section 113, indicates that the boarding up of a building for future repair shall not extend beyond one year unless approved by the building official.
 At this point, and with the time staff has dedicated to working with two property owners over the course of almost two years, the building official has determined that further extensions are inappropriate and allowing the structure to stand poses not just a nuisance, but a danger. I'm available for any questions Council may have. What questions do you have for Billy? Okay, is the...
 property owner here Mary it appears that the property owner is online okay would you like you have ten minutes would you like to speak for the council if mr. Mullins is available it's your turn to speak my can you hear me yes yeah okay all I want to say is on this um the deal that says about an October of 2023
 I never said I wouldn't tear the structure down. I got a call from someone that called me on my cell phone and said, they're just gonna tear it down and send me a bill. And I said, you can't do that. You can't just tear something down and send me a bill. The deal with that property is I've tried to rezone it. I've tried to do houses. I've tried to do duplexes. The city just won't allow me to do anything. I would love to tear the house down myself. I could just get anything to do to it that they'll allow me to do.
 So I've never said I would not tear down. I just have not been able to get anything done with the city to allow me to change what goes on there, be it single family, commercial or multifamily. That's all I get to say. Okay. Sarah. Well, I just had a question for staff. If the applicant or the person that's facing the raising and removal, have they been an applicant or have they made inquiries? Do we know the possible redevelopment of this area and been denied? No.
 Thank you for the question. We've not received any applications to rezone the property. It's my understanding that at different times the property owner or representatives of the property owner may have reached out to staff to inquire about feasibility of development. I know until I believe it was January of 2023, a engineer representing the property owner had reached out to our floodplain administrator because this property is encumbered by a substantial amount of floodplain associated with sublet creek asking questions.
 In January 2023, those communications ended, and we've not heard anything since then that I'm aware of. Council Member Hertzberg has her hand raised. Okay, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. My question is for Jonathan. Can you remind me what the property is currently zoned as?
 That's a good question. Allow me one, I'm sorry. I believe it's zoned RO residential office, but if you can give me a few seconds, I can confirm that. No, I forgot, it is split zone. That's part of the uniqueness of it. The front of the property that touches green acres is zoned RSF4 residential single family four units breaker, and roughly the back half is zoned RO residential office. Okay, thank you. And what is the total acreage on the property? Do you have that available? It's just shy of one acre.
 Okay, thank you so much Sure, I have a question for Jonathan Concerning the floodplain on this area and the result the current zoning. That's not anything that's changed anytime soon Or I mean floodplain just didn't change after this man bought the property. I
 that's correct the floodplain uh has there have been changes as i referenced that agenda session most recently in in january of january 25th this year we adopted most the most recent floodplain maps but this property was encumbered with floodplain at the time it was purchased the reason the zoning designation was the same at that time our standards related to floodplains as well were the same those were adopted in 2021 most recently okay um
 I do believe that the floodplain issue with the property has probably been made very clear. I think it actually mentioned that when it was listed. I'm not sure. Don't hold me to that. But I'm just trying to, I don't think it's been hidden that this was in a floodplain.
 So I don't know who this question is for, but you're saying that the property owner has not requested any rezoning or not applied for any rezoning? In reviewing our applications, since the property has changed hands, we've not seen any applications submitted. It may be that an inquiry was made asking if staff would support it. But no actual request for rezoning? That's correct. And you all have gone through all the process, you know, it was laid out? Yes.
 Mr. Whitaker has his hand raised. Okay, go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My understanding is that the existing house would need to be demolished for the owner to proceed with building a new home or a duplex or anything else that he were to choose to develop later.
 But there is no real way of salvaging that structure. So I don't quite understand his comments that the city is not allowing him to do anything. I think that his first step would be to prepare the property for development. And that's my only comment. Thank you. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those they said they didn't get anything in office chamber will be allowed to speak first would anyone like to speak on this in the chamber okay i'll bring it back to the council this is a resolution
 move we pass the resolution second yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property to describe and rezone the petition RZN 23-0030 for approximately .60 acres located west of 2558 West Valley Drive in Ward 2. From RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map and the legal description , both attached to the Planning Department's Addendum Memo from RSF-4 Residential Single Family 4 Units
 to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. In Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are to hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 2. It's just about a quarter mile northeast of the intersection of Weddington and Interstate 49. More specifically, it's on Valley Drive, which you can see here running east-west through the middle of the aerial image between West End Avenue to the west and Porter Road to the east.
 As a further point of reference, similar to what I identified at agenda session, the West End apartments that the city recently demolished are still visible in the aerial image here, where I'm indicating at the West End of Valley Drive, where it intersects with West End Avenue.
 uh the property itself is undeveloped and it as a property is outside the floodplain it is topographically somewhat higher than other properties in the area which is reflected in that floodplain designation the request before council tonight is to rezone the property from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family 8 units per acre
 And then reviewing the request, certainly from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did have some mixed findings. We do recognize that both zoning districts allow identical uses. They both allow single family homes, they both allow accessory dwelling units, they both allow accessory structures.
 However, the RSF8 zoning district does have slightly different allowances as far as lot width and lot area. And this is a portion of a platted subdivision that is very consistent across the board. This lot does initially appear wider because it is including two lots of that underlying subdivision.
 But perhaps most importantly in the distinctions between RSF4 and 8, beyond the allowed uses, is that RSF8 allows greater building footprints on a property as a proportion of the property. And I'll get into that a little bit more, why that has a bearing when we talk about how much imperviousness is allowed on a particular site. When looking at the request from a land use planning standpoint or a long-range planning standpoint, staff similarly had inconsistent findings.
 First, the request we did find to be consistent with our future land use map. That is a very broad brush stroke way of looking at land use in our city. It does not always get into the fine details of individual pipe sizes or individual lot development. And the residential neighborhood area designation does promote a wide diversity of residential housing types, which the RSF 8 zoning district does complement.
 And it also has an infill rating that is suggestive of it possibly being inappropriate to allow an incremental increase in the amount of density in a given area. However, with this in mind, staff feels that perhaps one of the more concerning conflicts with our long-range plans is whether this is fully appropriate with our first goal of our City Plan 2040 comprehensive plan, which is the appropriateness of infill development.
 Our infill ratings, as you'll recall, were meant to apply objective ratings to certain things. You are either near a fire department or you're not. You're in a floodplain or you're not. And it does not necessarily account for larger area, larger scope items. And in that regard, staff does not find it to be an appropriate thing.
 an appropriate infill opportunity, largely because of the floodplain issues that I'm about to delve into. And I'm jumping ahead here a little bit, but this is the exhibit I shared with council at your agenda session. The blue are areas of floodplain, areas of red are additional floodplains that were added with the most recently adopted FEMA maps, green are those that were removed.
 And as I noted before, this property is indeed outside of the floodplain and that is certainly recognized.
 However, accessing the property is well within the floodplain and there is a fairly lengthy record of flooding in this area and that doesn't just include the properties adjacent to us, this includes the access to this property. As a result, staff has concerns with the ability to increase the entitlements in this area. It is already zoned RSF4, it is already possible to develop this property with two houses.
 Allowing that to increase, however, poses a concern to staff and represents a significant finding on our part.
 Other items that I always like to share, of course, tree canopy is a wash. It's a 20% requirement in both zoning districts. And then the other item or issue I wanted to touch on is as a matter of public comment. I shared an agenda session that we had received a couple pieces of concern leading up to the planning commission. If you've not seen, there's also been some public comment expressed since then expressing more concern and opposition to the request
 focus especially on the flooding that I've touched on. With all those considerations in mind, staff is recommending denial of the request.
 We find that the existing RSF4 zoning designation and its low density character is perhaps the most appropriate option given the ongoing flooding and the property in this area and increasing that could have adverse impacts on its neighbors that don't necessarily manifest in the shape of a taller building or a different driveway layout, but it could be that the flooding issues are exacerbated.
 Our Planning Commission ultimately forwarded it to City Council by a vote of seven to one. The comments that were made noted most prominently that they felt that this was an incremental change and that this property is, again, as I noted, outside the floodplain and that the potential to
 Rezoning it to RSF8 represented an ability for a developer to develop the property more flexibly. The dissenting vote did emphasize and align with staff's concerns about flooding in particular, and that allowing a higher density in this area would not be appropriate or not align with our long-range planning goals.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions that council has. I believe Mayor Phil Swope is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? We did have the discussion about flooding with the Planning Commission, and I know they were concerned as well.
 This was part of a larger piece of property that the developer wanted to bring for rezone, but we've reduced it down to just the piece that's out of the floodplain. So that concern was addressed and we were asked if we would have concerns living on a property like this and I would have none. There's a lot of floodplain ordinances and requirements we have through the development process.
 ensure that the safety is maintained and if we need to build it on stilts if we need to go vertical and not add fill to the site so that Flooding is maintained the proper way that we're fine to do that, but Looking for your support Okay, thank you. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Okay Well, let's take some public comment
 If anybody gets one turn to speak, you have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Yes. Good evening. Hello, Mayor, City Council, Mr. Curry, Susan. I thought the city attorney brought up a good, interesting point about what... Would you introduce yourself? Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Alexandra Brown. Hello.
 I couldn't hear you. I'm sorry. Do I need to say my address? No, you're good. Okay. I thought the city attorney brought up something interesting previously about what is legal and what is harmful. And while this may be compatible in many ways and have a higher infill score, it will be harmful to the Valley Drive residents. I'm wondering about this technicality of not being in a floodplain, because if the results of the infill...
 is to increase the water runoff and thus harm the surrounding properties. I'm wondering if that point of not being within a floodplain is too easily earned and makes the score superficially a 7, weighted 8 versus a 6 and then a 7. I noticed that the traffic for the Planning Commission staff report, when considering if it would increase traffic danger or not,
 It doesn't, but let's say we have four tall and skinny three bedrooms, four bedrooms. That's 12 to 16 people with cars. And if the kids have a late night with a six pack or have a later night, they could wake up any day in April and May and have their cars completely inundated with water, totaling their cars, which there are totaled cars and totaled houses on that street.
 In fact, one of my neighbors routinely parks her car at Calvary Baptist up the street or just leaves to stay with her son and Rogers when she sees radar on the street.
 the Doppler. I noticed that police and fire didn't raise objections but is there airtight extraction plans of people that live on Valley and on the west side of Valley because when my father was on the phone with me during those hundred year storm events it was like a phone call back and forth with the police and fire station well it how far is the water now well where is it now we'll call us back in 30.
 I don't know if there's airtight plans in that regard for emergency services. Water and sewer committee indicated in October that we as a city have grown the surfacing by 450 acres plus. And the flood zone maps are ever expanding. I know that there's 12 homes on that flood data map that are newly absorbed in the flood zone.
 That's the insurance is going to reach in their pockets and take a lot of money for that. Please don't let them pour double the concrete on Valley. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Evening Mr. Mayor and Council. My name is John Benedict, 1775 North Janus off of Garland. I've been a resident since 1950.
 I'm coming here with concerns about drainage of water from city streets onto private property in the Weddington Street part of town. I'd like to provide some history. Drainage has been a problem near Weddington Street since the early 1960s, so much so that this area was called crawdad flats because you'd have crawdads coming out in the yards.
 I inherited a house off of Weddington at 1143 Vista Place near Holly Street, if you remember where old KK radio station used to be, from my grandparents. This is a little upstream on the creek that runs by Asbell School. So I can remember my grandfather...
 being upset in 1963 because he could not grow roses in the yard, it was so wet. Water from Sunset Hill would wash down the hill on Weddington and with a foot of water from Weddington going into our yard. When I inherited the property in 1980, I had to jack up the house.
 due to settling because of water in the crawl space from drainage off the street. I came to the City Engineer after a rainstorm with pictures of water from the city street a foot deep in my yard. The City Engineer solution
 was for the city street department to come out and pour a blacktop speed bump across my driveway to keep the water out. This helps some, but our point that I'd like to, we feel that the city has a duty and responsibility to provide city planning to keep water from city streets off of private property. If we fast forward to...
 The drainage on West End Street that we're talking about, in 1966, I lived in an apartment which was then called Scholars Inn on West End Street. From 1966 until 2016, that's 50 years we're talking about.
 That same property called West End. Can I have another minute? Well, they'll have to give that to you. I would like to give them one more minute to complete your information you're sharing on the history, please. Okay. The West End property that we're talking about, in the last six or seven years, West End Apartments flooded at least,
 six or seven, at least twice, and had to be condemned and torn down. Again, I feel that the city has a duty to provide city planning to keep water from city streets and creeks off private property. Thank you for considering. We hope our points are considered before further building is allowed in areas known to flood. Thanks. Thank you.
 all right who else like to address us no one on zoom mayor okay i'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what action would you all like to take or what discussion would you all like to have tracy i think you were first this time was i was i first this time bob we're like on jeopardy or something right over here and then i saw yours
 As I kind of mentioned in agenda session, I'm very familiar with this area. I have a rental house that's several blocks away, so I know that this area floods quite a bit. I've been contacted by residents in the area about the flooding problems.
 rezoning this to RSF 8 while it is compatible generally speaking in the neighborhood that's adding a lot more potentially a lot more impervious surface and I think we I mean we just voted to purchase the West Avenue apartments seven or eight months ago and that's a half a block down the street
 So I would really think that it would be good to not allow rezoning. They can already build two houses there and they restrict the footprint to what the zoning type is right now. So Jonathan, this is a, it's 0.6 acres, right?
 Is that? That's correct. And so they would only be able to build one other house anyways, right? Correct. But you're saying there's less, that they could build bigger and have less or more unpermeable buildings?
 Rezoning the property would, given the lot area and lot frontage, allow three lots where two lots currently would be allowed under RSF4. In addition to that, many of our zoning standards have building area allowances to allow how much of a lot can be covered by a building, and that percentage increases under RSF4. So it allowed additional houses and they'd be allowed to take up a larger proportion. Yeah, under RSF8. That's correct. RSF8.
 Now, staff makes some good points here. I do have a question about, and this is just related while we're looking at it, of where the West End Apartments were. Are those foundations still in existence? Are those pads still in existence? They are. And do we know how much impermeable surface that is, roughly? Like, well over 10,000 feet, right?
 Yeah, absolutely. Without a doubt, I can eyeball it roughly. It's a mix of concrete pad, gravel, and there's some areas that are overgrown by grass a bit. But all told, it looks like it's over 50,000 square feet. Wow. Are we going to try to work to...
 I don't have the privilege of being that familiar with what the next steps are for that. I don't know if anybody on staff is available or present tonight. It's not germane to this conversation, so I'll come back to that later. So thank you.
 Go ahead, Alan. We're going to remove the  Sorry, Alan P. with the Floodplain Administrator, City of Fayetteville. Yes, the intent is to remove those pads and all of that impervious area and return that to natural space and include hopefully some additional floodplain storage with that. Awesome. Thank you. Sharon? Yes, I have a question for Jonathan. Please remind me  I'm getting confused. We've got two lots now.
 Is it only one house that can be built on the two lots or can two houses be put on the two lots? Under
 Are you asking in terms of zoning or in terms of what's the land? What's there, what's allowable now? The land could be divided in two. It's enough land and lot front or street frontage to split this one lot back into the two that it was plotted as and each one could be developed with a house and theoretically an ADU. And an ADU, okay.
 a detached ADU or attached ADU? You could do two ADUs, but the way our ordinance is written is you have 1,200 feet to play with for an ADU. That's it. You don't get 1,200 and 1,200. You could have six, six, four, eight. I'm not going to try to do any more. Okay. I just want to clarify that because I'm like, well, I think it could be two lots. Okay. Thank you.
 So what do we have to do? Well, we're having this, you know, I guess we're having a discussion. I mean, I guess you would vote in favor of the re-soldering. Okay, we'll suspend. I'll make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Care to which one you want to scold or not?
 Bench yes, yes, Hertzberg yes Stafford yes, yes more yes, we occur yes burning
 And in order to rezone that property, described in a rezoning petition 2023-30 for approximately six-tenths of an acre, located west of 2558 West Valley Drive in Ward 2 from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre.
 Motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Motion to second and go to third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Erksberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes.
 Yes. Fair enough. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 2023-30 for approximately three-fifths of an acre located west of 2558 West Valley Drive in Ward 2 from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, I just want to confirm that we're voting yes on a denial, staff's recommendation. No. No. This is whether the ordinance will pass. If the ordinance passes, the land is rezoned. And it goes to an R8. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. You're welcome. Karen, would you please go on the road? Bench? No. Herd? No. Hertzberg? No. No.
 Stafford no Jones no more no we'd occur Oh no that failed okay all right let's move along to number eight
 An ordinance for a zone that property is grabbing is on the petition RZN 2023-034 for approximately 3.06 acres located west of South Razorback Road near the Town Branch Trail in Ward 1 from NSL Neighbor Services Limited to RA Residential Agricultural and UT Urban Thoroughfare, KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to RA Residential Agricultural and UT Urban Thoroughfarell.
 section two that the city council city of fayetteville are here by immense official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one jonathan thank you mayor this property is located in fayette or south fayetteville in ward one it includes three acres of land on the west side of razorback road uh about equal distance between slago to the south and 15th street to the north
 It is, to orient you a little bit more closely, it's immediately southwest of where the Town Branch Trail crosses Razorback Road. And in fact, that trail continues through the northern extent of this property before proceeding onto the west.
 The town branch itself also passes along the northern extents of this property, and it does appear, honestly, as though a surveyor at one point attempted to put the center line of the stream as the northern boundaries of this property, which perhaps contributes to its odd shape.
 Unsurprisingly, as a result, the property is encumbered by both floodway, which you can see in the hazard stripes here, as well as 100-year floodplain, which you can see in the blue designation as well. The property is currently undeveloped, although it is within tree canopy for the most part of varying age and varying quality.
 the request before council tonight is to rezone the property from its current in the SL neighborhood services limited zoning district which covers the full extents of the property totaling three point like I said about three acres of land to a mixture of our a residential agricultural zoning and UT urban thoroughfare zoning in acreage terms that looks like about 0.07 acres or
 or almost a quarter of the property being rezoned to RA, intended to reflect roughly the boundaries of the floodway with the remainder of the property being rezoned to UT Urban Thoroughfare. From a land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find this to be a compatible request. There is a wide variety of especially housing uses in this area.
 There's a multitude of different multifamily developments to the north, east and south of this property before segue into lower density single family neighborhoods to the south and west. The UT zoning district allows all these residential uses. It also allows several non-residential uses that can be complimentary to this area, which generally lacks a lot of services and take it up to 15th Street
 From a long-range plan standpoint, staff also finds this request to speak to several of our long-range planning goals. This property has a split designation in the future land use map, reflecting the fact that it is encumbered by floodplain. While the request is not fully intended to dedicate the natural area, which reflects that floodplain as RA residential agricultural, it does take a significant amount of the property that has zoning entitlement now
 switches it over to that RA zoning designation, which we have in recent history at least used as a holding zoning district or an open space zoning district with to demonstrate the intent not to develop and then concentrate the remaining entitlement onto the portion of the property that remains as UT urban thoroughfare and
 Other long range goals that support or that staff finds to support this request are that it's located within close proximity to a Tier 2 center in our growth concept map. The Fayette Junction plan, which you can see the call out here, envisions this property being developed. It's kind of in a similar way to how it's proposed to be rezoned with a larger building to the southern portion of the property and leaving the northern extents of it undeveloped.
 And then in terms of the infill rating, this property does have a lot of elements that can contribute to a positive infill score, including access to your typical amenities or typical infrastructure, as well as being due south of the main University of Arkansas campus and near transit as well.
 Other issues to consider, the tree canopy will become somewhat more complicated as a result of this. The Neighborhood Services Limited Zoning District requires 20%. If this rezoning is approved, it would switch the northern extents of the property, the RA, to a 25% requirement and the portions that are UT to a 15% requirement.
 I'm not sure if I've touched on this before, but our foresters have the ability to use like a weighted tree preservation calculation when they determine how that would apply across a site.
 As I noted before, this property is within floodplain and is also within proximity to be subject to our streamside protection standards. Given the size of the property and the lack of significant documented flooding issues that we have, we feel comfortable that our ordinances in this instance are capable of handling a lot of the concerning impacts that could result to building near or into a floodplain.
 As for public comment on the request, today we've received one item in favor of this proposal. That's largely the extent of it. And similar to the last time, I did want to share the exhibit for this one. This went out with your packet as well. Of most note is that under the new FEMA adopted maps, this will be increasing the amount of floodplain on the property so that area red was added as floodplain as of the January 25th adoption of that ordinance.
 With all oops, I'm sorry this reads incorrectly staff is recommending in favor of this request. I apologize for for mistyping that there It was recommended in favor of and was brought to the Planning Commission They voted unanimously to afford it the City Council. So both those recommendations are in favor despite the error here The Planning Commission conversation was fairly brief felt it was consistent with both the fate Junction plan our long-range plans and with the land uses in the area and
 And with that, I'm available for any questions you may have. And Mayor Brian Teague is here in person as the representative for the item. Thank you. Mayor Weill Go ahead, Brian. We have ten minutes. Mayor Weill Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I do have a hopefully brief presentation that I would like to run through. First, I'd like to express, I think, my appreciation for the perspective that the Planning Department has and that the Planning Commission had and their recommendations of approval.
 I'm representing the property owners, Mariah Johnson and Chris Looney. I've been working with them for some time now, developing a master plan for that property. The master plan, it includes the preservation of the natural area on the north side of the property, and that's where the RA zoning proposal comes into play for 0.7 acres, about a third of the property.
 The master plan also includes some single family houses, some two, three, and four family buildings, and also potentially some smaller mixed-use buildings that would face out onto Razorback Road.
 We spent some time with the existing zoning districts, Neighborhood Services Limited, and also took a pretty good look at Neighborhood Services General. With both of those, it's the minimum lot area requirement, 4,000 square feet for single family houses, 3,000 square feet for other dwellings.
 that really would probably push the density that would be possible on this property down below 10 units per acre.
 So we looked at other zoning districts. We were looking for two things. We were looking to be more compact on the south side so we could preserve the natural area on the north side. We also wanted to keep the mixed use piece by right that NSL has.
 There were two zoning categories that would give us those things. There was CS and UT that would provide those things. Ultimately, we requested UT for a number of different reasons, but mainly because there's a larger tract to the north that has an existing zoning designation of UT.
 There's also some existing RMF24 zoning to the west and some CS zoning to the south. I think that if we were to try to make a case that the zoning would be on this property, the proposal on this property, that it would be in accordance with all six goals of city plan, I think we could make a pretty strong case for that.
 Mr. Kurth mentioned the Fayette Junction neighborhood plan, which calls for walkable mixed use on this property and also along the Razorback Road corridor. Fairly close proximity to the University, there's a Razorback transit stop at 15th and Razorback, which is really, really close to the property. The trail system runs through the property.
 I think it goes without saying, if you lived on the property, you would have the option to utilize alternative transportation systems for a good number of your daily trips. So walkable mixed use, alternative transportation systems.
 I think what I really want to bring to your attention is that those things require a minimum density threshold for those to function properly. Studies show that 10 units per acre is the minimum density threshold for walkable neighborhoods.
 It really needs to be two, three, four times that for all of those systems to really function efficiently and pay for themselves. Also I wanted to mention affordability, not just brick and mortar affordability, but also transportation affordability.
 The UT zoning with the multiple alternative transportation systems available to the property, I think the UT zoning would make possible more transportation affordability for more people. And I think that's really important in northwest Arkansas where a lot of us pay
 the same or more for our transportation as we do our houses. Also the brick and mortar affordability, kind of, I think going into 2024, looking back at 2023, we have kind of a new development economics with higher interest rates, with the inflation that's happened.
 A lot of the projects that we're trying to make work that were approved in 2022, we're really struggling to make those pencil. Those are cluster developments, a number of different type of developments, but the seven or eight units per acre, trying to sell the houses at $300 a square foot, and it's still not working.
 So that increased density that the UT zoning would give us, I think it would definitely help with that. I think that again the UT zoning would help with the affordability items that I mentioned. It would help us to be more compact. It would help us to preserve that natural area on the north side of the property.
 I would help Razorback Road, help us turn Razorback Road into a walkable mixed-use corridor. The neighbors that we did talk to were all in support of this rezoning request. So I would just ask the City Council to support this and approve this. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff and the council?
 Jonathan, there was a brief slide you put up. Was that just kind of an example of what it could be? I mean, that wasn't necessarily a plan, was it? That's a good question. That is the Fayette Junction illustrative plan. Several of our neighborhood plans have illustrative plans like that that envisions what could be done with vacant properties.
 i have a question for jonathan um jonathan um ut can uh urban thoroughfare can have a building height of seven right um and remind me what um cs is uh is it three you're correct that ut allows seven cs allows five five okay and um you know i bike through there all the time and i was trying to remember to the north of there how tall those buildings are at the corner of
 Razorback and 15th. Do you recall, are they, I know they're zone UT, but are they up to seven stories? I believe those are all three stories. Razor's four. Yeah, it seems like it's... Four, I'm sorry. Yeah, it looks like it's four. Yeah, I've got a bit of concern about the building heights around there and also obviously the expanded floodplain that's right in that area. I guess I have a question for...
 Sorry, I'm bad with names. Brian Teague. Brian, okay. Can I ask, is there a plan to build full height seven stories? No, you can't ask him that. Oh, I can't ask him that? That's not a proper zoning question. Okay, fair enough. You're not really supposed to be talking about his project.
 What's that? You're really not supposed to talk about the project that he's actually planning and that would include height. He's allowed to build up that high if he wants to try to get it. But no one's forcing anyone to build that high and no one is necessarily building that high. It's just what the zoning allows. Right. And if the developer wants to give you more information about limitations, then he can offer that in the bill of assurance.
 But apart from that, we really shouldn't be talking about the project that is possibly going to go there. Everything around there is about four stories. I'll make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the... Oh, I don't think we've had public time. No, I haven't. We're about to, though. Motion's got to be. For all of you folks that are left. Everybody gets...
 One turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Is there anybody in the chamber that wants to speak on this topic? Do we have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Now I'll make a motion to move to second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to second reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 and norence to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 2023-34 for approximately 3.06 acres located west of south razorback road near the town branch trail in ward 1 from nsl neighborhood services limited to r.a residential agricultural and ut urban thoroughfare here i make a motion to suspend the rules go third final reading
 Second. Second. Motion to go to the third reading chair. Please call the roll. Funch. Yes. Burke. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore.
 yes yes in order to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 2023-34 for approximately 3.06 acres located west of south razorback road near the town branch trail in ward 1 from nsl neighborhood services limited to ra residential agricultural and ut urban thoroughfare any final callers from the council
 Yeah, I'd just like to say thank you for the consideration you're giving the trail and keeping the trees along the trail. And thanks for the consideration of the mixed use on Razorback. I think mixed use is definitely a direction we need to go in a lot of parts of town. And it seems this is a good match for there. Sure.
 and i did want to thank the walk through the process and i do appreciate you know when we're collaborating in community a lot of the parcels of land that are undeveloped are going to have areas of challenge especially with floodplain with some sensitive areas and so i think
 It always feels good to be able to support a project that we can see it looks like it's been going through And that more thoughtful vein to kind of think through how they can you know work with the natural elements and make a benefit To everyone in that so I'll be happy to support that tonight. Okay anything else Here, please call the roll Yes No
 Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Garner? Yes. Okay, so that passed. Okay, let's go to number nine.
 a resolution to grant the appeal of council member scott burnis sarah bunch and deandre jones to refer conditional use permits cup 2023-171 back to the planning commission to consider the application for short-term rental at 1006 east sparrow circle in ward one jonathan you have
 I can begin, Mayor, and then I'd be happy to hand it off to those that have sponsored the appeal. Before jumping in, I always like to offer a courtesy short-term rental update whenever I have the chance to.
 Quick glossary, STR is what I'll probably call it tonight, short-term rental, it's easier. Type one short-term rentals are those that are a permanent resident and they're used part-time for short-term rentals, whereas type two short-term rentals, which is what we'll be discussing for the next two items, are those intended for full-time or the vast majority of the time as short-term rentals. As of today,
 The number of issued and active short-term rentals we have are 96 Type 1s and 447 Type 2s. Hopefully, Council recalls you all have a cap that's been imposed as 475.
 There are 27 that are in review right now, type twos for type ones, and we have 22 on a wait list. You'll notice that 447 and 27 does not equal 475, that you are observing the day-to-day flow as people
 withdraw applications as applications are denied. So the wait list, we're steadily moving through it. And relatedly, I did want to put a plug in, of course, that there is an ordinance review meeting scheduled for February 21st at 530. I believe this is currently the main, if not the only item on the agenda.
 With that in mind, I appreciate you humoring me for that update. This particular property is in southeast Fayetteville. It's in Ward 1. Dialing in a little bit closer, it's on the southeast corner of Morningside and 15th Street in the Creekside Meadows subdivision. Despite what the aerial shows you here, that subdivision has been completed. The streets are completed. There are houses that have been built. And as it relates to that...
 The particular property and house in question was completed in November of 2022, a little less than a year after that in September of last year, Planning received a request to use the property as a Type II short-term rental. That request was denied by the Planning Commission of a vote of one to seven. The primary item that the Planning Commission addressed and spoke about in that item was an issue of concentration or density of Type II short-term rentals in this area.
 If council will recall, there are several elements that the Unified Development Code charges staff and the Planning Commission with considering. It includes on-site parking, off-site parking, existing violations, and concentration of short-term rentals in an area. So that was one of those variables that the Planning Commission is charged legally to consider. Thank you.
 With that in mind, about a month later, planning staff did receive a complaint that the property was still operating as a short-term rental. That was validated and a violation letter was issued. That was escalated in early December when the listing was found to still be made and open for renting. Around that time, planning also received another application to use the property as a short-term rental type two.
 At issue tonight is not whether this property should be used as a Type 2 short-term rental. At issue before the Council is an appeal of whether this condition of the use permit should be heard again within a year. Put succinctly, hopefully.
 When a conditional use permit is denied, our Unified Development Code does not permit it to be reheard unless there's a finding that justifies reconsideration, some sort of change or substantial change. So when these items come before the Planning Commission, the first item they consider is whether it's appropriate to reconsider, whether it's ripe for reconsideration.
 In this instance, this application was not found to be right. Planning staff recommended that it not be approved and the Planning Commission agreed. There were several items that were laid out by planning staff in considering this.
 that whether it was the number of guests, the amount of parking and how that parking was accommodated, the density and concentration of short-term rentals in the area, and did not find that there to be any notable changes in those issues
 One I did want to touch on though is that this was a somewhat unusual request when it came through in September and that this property owner submitted three short-term rental applications that came through all at that one meeting.
 And I think it's important to note this because planning staff was conflicted in their recommendation because we felt that it was appropriate to perhaps have one of these added to this area. But adding all three would push the concentration just in this area of the city above 4%.
 which at the time we used to have a 2% cap. That would have put them at double what our preceding cap was. The Planning Commission appeared to observe that and of those three applications, they approved one, which is at 737 East Egret. The other two were denied, which represent items C9 and C10 on your agenda tonight.
 So with all that in mind, staff did not find the request to be substantially changed enough to merit reconsideration. I recommend the denial of that request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and denied it by a vote of two to six. And I'm happy to take any questions that the council has on this item. Thank you. Who is the applicant here? Yes, sir. The applicant would like to speak to the council. You have ten minutes. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor and Council, my name is Casey Koeppel and I represent Greg VanWinkle. I'm an attorney. My office is in Fort Smith and Rogers, but I live out in Prairie Grove and I've grown up here my entire life. Mr. Kruth mentioned that we're only here on the issue of reconsideration. I did try to raise the issue of you hearing and deciding the full appeal at this, but
 shut me down, probably rightfully. One thing Mr. Krupp did say that I want to take, want to correct is that your code does not require a substantial change in circumstances. It simply requires a changed conditions or new circumstances. That's all it says. Our argument tonight is that that is a subjective, undefined, vague concept. Even the report that you were given in
 by staff for this meeting says, as the monitoring of the property was not discussed in the previous report, staff is unable to determine if this constitutes a change. It's vague enough that staff can't even say whether or not that's a change.
 So what we're asking you tonight to do is to consider that that subjective standard, without definition, without the ability of Mr. Van Winkle or other applicants to know what is and isn't a change in circumstances that warrant reconsideration, that you give him the benefit of the doubt and send it back to the Planning Commission to hear his applications on the merits.
 As an attorney, we know that there are words in the law that aren't always defined by the law. But we have these thousands and thousands of cases that we can go to to have the appellate courts tell us what it does and what it doesn't mean. Mr. Van Winkle doesn't have that. He has the words, change circumstances or change conditions, new circumstances, etc.
 That may mean to him, and obviously it did mean to him, that he's met that. I've changed my application. I'm going to resubmit it for reconsideration. It's a subjective standard. The Planning Commission disagreed with him.
 But a different planning commission might have agreed with him and you might agree with him. There's no clear definition of what those terms mean or what they don't mean. We're just asking you to consider that, give him the benefit of the doubt of the ambiguous language in the code, and send it back for consideration on the merits. If you do have questions for Mr. Van Winkle regarding the actual properties, he's here. He'll be glad to answer them for you. I can try to answer any questions that you might have. But...
 And to save us all time that would be our argument for the second agenda item as well. We're here on both of those Appeals tonight. I'm not going to say anything differently on the second one that I am this one But I ask you to consider that argument for both matters tonight Okay Yes, I think I need to read the entire thing about whether the application is going to be a
 reconsidered by the Planning Commission. It does talk about unless there's evidence of changed conditions or new circumstances, but then you have another thing that says what does that mean, which justify reconsideration submitted by the Planning Commission. In other words, it must be something that would cause or be likely to cause the Planning Commission to change their mind.
 So, you know, that could be less density maybe or something else like that, but you know they're wanting the same number of units, same number of people to be able to come in and use it. The other thing is, of course, it's got, there's that density of having a lot of short-term rentals around there. Well, that didn't get changed. So putting cameras up,
 would that justify reconsideration by the Planning Commission? Is that a changed circumstance that would justify reconsideration? And the Planning Commission thought no. But I don't think it's, you know, I appreciate your good arguments on that, but I think that if you look at the whole sentence and you talk about these circumstances must justify reconsideration, that means they must be relevant to why it got turned down in the first place to some extent.
 And so the number of people in there maybe, that might, you know, if they went down to two instead of four, maybe that would add something. But a lot of what the Planning Commission did is they looked at the density right there in that area, and that certainly did not change, and that was their primary consideration. So I think, I don't think it's so vague that it's something that you just have to agree to let them have another bite at the apple. I think that when you look at the entire sentence there,
 You have to remember what the justification is. And so I think that every part of the code, when you're trying to interpret it, must be read as a reasonableness test. Is it reasonable? Would somebody have no clue what this means as a test?
 Mr. Copeland's trying to say his client doesn't have any clue what this means, but he would but his client was told at the Planning Commission when they turned it down the first time is that it's too dense in this area. So I think that he must have had some clue that the kind of change that was needed would be more than putting cameras up so that you can watch the comings and goings of the of the
 Tenants or something. I'm not sure exactly what they'd be used for but maybe for security or something like that So it's it's really up to still you all are sitting like you're the Planning Commission right now And you're trying to decide whether or not the changes that he has proposed Which is putting up the cameras and there might be some other stuff and you can tell me about that is that sufficient to justify reconsideration by the Planning Commission in less than a year and
 And that was a test that's what the planning commission had to think about. And now you're sitting like you're a planning commission, so that's your view, too, and your condition about what you want to do. And I'll let Jonathan explain anything else he might want to do on that. I don't have anything to add, Mayor. I think staff's report says it pretty clearly. We did not find any evidence of change to that.
 to convince us to recommend that it be reconsidered obviously that was the planning commission's determination to make though no you may not you just hang on a minute um can i ask yes i was going to get to the council members that did the appeal first uh could i ask the property owners to step forward no absolutely yes sir uh greg van winkle great um as you recall you and i
 You sent me multiple texts and called me multiple times and you conveyed to me that in your mind a substantial change had happened at the property and that those changes had not been conveyed in the Planning Commission meeting. It doesn't look like Planning Commission.
 the information you gave me wasn't necessarily accurate so help me understand why i should support this appeal because they're telling me now that everything that you told them they looked at and didn't see the change okay um the changes were made the chain the the airbnb posting was modified it was lowered to the number of occupants that could stay in the property
 The vehicles, obviously, the posting was modified to mandate the fact that no more than four vehicles at the property, which every house in the subdivision has the same four parking places. This is no different. Two in the garage, two outside the garage. That was notified. A property manager was notified.
 included into the conversation to where he monitors the parking as well. I did add additional camera just for me to be able to monitor the parking in case the rules were broken and so I could contact the occupant to say hey, this is not working. Property managers can maintain and take care of it. These are the things that we made once it was declined. So if you, those changes were made and
 And I wasn't able to discuss that with the property with previously like this. I'm trying to follow all the rules and do everything I can to make sure that the parking places and the rules are followed. And I felt like that we did that. Those additional services added, I felt, took care of the issue.
 And I'll just say one other thing, and this is not a question, this is just a statement. I've got to be perfectly honest with you. I was extremely disappointed.
 because you and I, along, if you recall, you and I had a conversation and your wife was involved, or your significant other was involved in the conversation that I outlined exactly what was going to be discussed tonight. And that was whether there was substantial change to warrant us sending it back to the Planning Commission for reconsideration.
 Not the conditional use permit itself and you understood that you conveyed to me You understood that and then two or three days later. We get a letter from your attorney wanting us to Include the conditional use permit. I'm perfect. I'm being perfectly honest with you here That disappointed me extremely and because you and I had talked extensively about that so I just wanted to tell you that that that I
 I didn't appreciate that effort after you and I had talked about what direction this meeting was designed for. The reconsideration of your conditional use permit is not on the table. I told you that, and I felt like you kind of went around us after I conveyed to you exactly where we were. So just being perfectly honest with you.
 Sir, I'm following the leadership of my attorney. Honestly, I had to get some leadership. This is a little too, I guess you could say I'm not understanding the whole process correctly. I'm not gathering the information, so by hiring an attorney, I felt like that would help me.
 Honestly, I really didn't understand a whole lot of the exact detail of what you just said. So I apologize. Okay. Sarah, I'm going to let the folks that did. DeAndre, you were... Sarah, do you have anything you want to say to DeAndre? Well, I've looked through this and I told Mr. Van Winkle that I would back his appeal.
 But I wouldn't necessarily vote in favor of it. I made that clear to you. I see that you got your day in front of the council and I will give you all consideration. I'm not quite, my perspective is I am not quite sold on the changes that have been made because one of the big issues is the density and that does not change. The density of short-term rentals in this area.
 You know, I'm just not, I think some measures have been made to see that the parking situation is resolved to a certain extent or that it is, the number is kept at four. I understand the cameras and, you know, on the driveway and that sort of thing and a property manager to keep an eye on stuff for you, but...
 to me that density, you know, we put that cap in place for a reason and I don't quite see that density. That's not going to change. I'm still weighing this out, but I kind of feel like, I kind of feel, agree with Scott, that when I spoke with you, you really told me you'd made significant changes and you're just really going to
 And I don't quite see those there yet. Now I'm willing to be open-minded about it, but I'm not quite seeing the changes that would make me send this back to the Planning Commission to give you another, as Kit said, another bite of the apple within less than a year. So that's where I'm at with this. Thank you. DeAndre? Good evening and I remember talking with you and
 I remember having a very similar conversation and I do apologize that there was some that you were ambiguous because it can be overwhelming absolutely and so but um my question to you is you you mentioned that you weren't able to communicate this to the planning commission why were you not able to do that I felt like that the changes that were made and and I'm and I'm open to
 more changes if I can have some leadership. The biggest issue that was written and brought up was the parking and Okay, if you if you simplify this as parking because you have eight people That's staying in a four-bedroom house. So that's a possibility of more than four vehicles Okay, well then let's bring it down and simplify. Let's bring it down to four applicants only four parking places, which is a
 What we did, we added property manager, we added cameras for extra security to make sure that the number of cars are perfect, which every house in the subdivision has four parking places. I guess I don't understand why those adjustments wasn't enough to modify the issue. The issue initially from the start was the parking places and how many occupants.
 I guess I'm missing a boat here. I don't understand if you cut the occupants in half and you only allow four cars, which everybody has the same parking, I don't understand why those issues are not fixed. I guess I don't  I'm trying to figure that out. I understand. And I don't think  you still didn't quite answer my question concerning why you didn't communicate with the Planning Commission 
 So did you just not communicate because you didn't know how to go about doing it? I did the same thing that I'm doing now to the planning commission, but they said it wasn't enough. And so I asked for advice and I didn't get anything more than just it's not enough. I see. Okay. Okay. I see. Well, and it's unfortunate because, again, I don't see the...
 significant changes. I would encourage you though, and I guess now it may not make a big difference, but always asking those questions and then reaching out to
 Jonathan Kurtz office because they're very helpful because I do understand that it can be Overwhelming absolutely and it's so good that you got an attorney and I really enjoyed talking with you you were I Was very encouraged. I thought that you had made the changes that were Compatible, but I just don't I just don't think that in good faith. I couldn't support the
 what you're trying to do. And I hope that I did not mislead you into letting you know that I would. As always, I really want to give everyone the opportunity to redeem themselves when that opportunity presents itself. But I would encourage you in the future to please do your research as best as you can and ask questions. Yeah. May I comment? Absolutely. On the density?
 There's 475 license that you guys are handing out. And I know the 2% is the 2%, but is there not going to be certain areas that have to be extended based off of the amount of license? So we're sticking directly only with the 2% in this area. I mean, I'm just curious if that's, is every area going to stay within the perimeters? That's being discussed by the ordinance review right now. Okay. Okay.
 supposed to be tweaking all of those. And so that's a great question. And but again, I would always defer to Jonathan's office because they're always willing and they have all they have the best information for you. So I would always ask.
 questions, concerns, because we don't want you to end up in this situation again. Thank you sir. Appreciate it. Absolutely. Okay. Mr. Bama, we spoke as well. Yes sir. And I think I was quite honest with you that I'm not your guy. You made that clear. Yeah. All due respect. Yeah. And the density for me is a huge problem. This is my neighborhood. Those houses is a new neighborhood.
 It's one of the only developments that's even close to being affordable in our city for our first-time homeowners and stuff. So for me, that's a huge piece of the puzzle is we're already taking Ward 1, this area's already taken more than its fair share of these short-term rentals. But a big thing that stuck with me, because you were talking about wanting to follow the rules,
 But the Planning Commission denied your CUPs on these two properties, they gave you another, but you didn't follow the rules. You went ahead and kept operating this as short-term rentals to the point to where it went to the prosecutor's office. Is that correct? And can you tell me your- Yes, I'd love to tell you my side of the story, absolutely. Once I found out, once again,
 Airbnb is set up a certain way to understand how the rules are done and not done takes a little bit of a process So there's a system called snoozed Meaning you can shut the properties off But what happens is after a certain time they'll come back on and if you don't shut them off Again and extend that date out then they can come home and so they were snoozed because I was going through this process and
 Trying to get them approved and then next thing I know my property manager said he got a letter I'm like for what and he showed me the information and I stopped the Airbnb because I didn't know that it actually was done snoozed and And fixed the problem, but the letter had already been sent to him. I did not get a letter and
 So you didn't know that your property was being rented? I did not. Oh, being rented? Yeah. They wasn't being rented. They were snoozed. They were still in the system. I had one property approved. Okay. And it was being rented. So they weren't actively, there weren't people staying there? No. No, the people that were staying in my houses were family. Johnson, there's a complaint-driven system, isn't it?
 That's correct. Then where would the complaints have come from? Just from a listing or? No, I believe these came from a, I don't know if I have that information on hand. The ready documentation I have is we have screenshots from early December that the property was available to be rented. Our technician who was looking at it looked at the dates of December 12th to 14th hypothetically and it was open for renting.
 and looked at reviews of the property and there were two. So it doesn't mean that it was technically rented, but just showing that it was. No, our ordinance says it's illegal to advertise properties flat out. Doesn't matter if they are available one date, not another date, advertising properties is illegal if you do not have a permit or a license. But yeah, I think another thing, and this might be a question for you, Kit, is it standard for us to question the judgment of the planning commission and the staff
 to forward an appeal like this, to say, no, you guys got to hear this again? Well, there's an appeal right going to you, and when it comes to you, you can say it's questioning their judgment or whatever, but you're basically sitting just like you're the planning commission hearing it for the first time.
 you certainly can take into account what the Planning Commission did one way or the other just like what staff recommends but you all can make any decision that you feel like is probably appropriate under the circumstances okay thank you yes sir my decision will be to stick with the Planning Commission's recommendations
 Sure. Motion to approve. I'm sorry, excuse me real quick. Oh, Council Member Hertzberg has her hand raised. Thank you. I have a question for the applicant. My question was why you did not apply for an appeal from the initial planning commission denial. Can you say that again, please? Sure. Why did you not appeal the initial planning commission's denial of the conditional use permit application?
 Mr. Copeland, you can come up and answer that. It's not as far as relevancy goes to this, but I'll just explain. When you stepped away from the mic, I usually assumed that you are finished. Yes, sir. No more opinions. Okay. But? I sat on a board like this years ago. I understand that. He, Mr. Van Winkle,
 did hire an attorney or had an attorney attempt to perfect an appeal. That attorney unfortunately obviously didn't read the appropriate rules and didn't cite the appropriate statutes and so it was an imperfect appeal. He attempted to through an attorney who unfortunately didn't know what they were doing. Thank you. All right, Sarah. Motion to approve. Second. We have a motion and second to approve and uh
 a yes vote would be in favor of the appeal and a no vote if you vote in favor of the resolution okay everybody got that i have a question sure is it and i may have missed this but is it possible for him to go back and do any changes or is it just it's just
 It's a year. Okay. All right. Thank you. That's correct. That's what I thought. Okay. As a point of clarification, to make the same application again requires a year of waiting. They can apply again if they perceive that they have made changes. Of course, that would trigger this same conversation for the Planning Commission again. They would need to evaluate whether that new application has been changed.
 okay mr mayor that this could kit repeat what he said his i don't know if his mic was on i couldn't hear him yeah about the voting okay um the the there's a resolution on the floor uh a move for appeal of that and what it says if you would vote in favor of it it says that the city council has determined that the applicants for the proposed short-term rental
 has provided sufficient evidence of change circumstances or new circumstances which justify consideration of the application prior to the expiration of the 12 months. So you would be granting the appeal and you would send it back to the Planning Commission and they would have a whole new hearing on it about whether or not they should grant the short-term rental. So if you're in favor of that, you vote yes. If you don't think, if you're in favor of what the Planning Commission decided,
 that they're not going to hear that, that there wasn't enough change circumstances, then you would vote no. All right. Everybody got it? Do you understand that now? Did I explain that okay? Yes, sir. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Fudge? No. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? No. Stafford? No. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whitaker? No.
 Vernon no, okay, so that appeal failed Number 10 the resolution grant the appeal of councilmember Scott Vernon Sarah bunch and DeAndre Jones conditionally used for men CEP 2023
 17 old Baxter Planning Commission to consider the application for short-term rental at 854 East Farrell circle and Ward 1 Jonathan you have anything I just
 i don't have anything uh specific to go into with this item it is a separate piece of property i did want to point that out it's about halfway back to 15th street on the on the east side of sparrow circle which you can see in the aerial here it does follow a largely similar path as the last item now the house is slightly newer i think is perhaps the most distinct
 aspect of that property and the home itself is different. As with the last item, the type two short-term rental request was denied at the September hearing. There were issues as well with it continuing to be operated and a violation letter was issued, which were escalated and the application was processed in December. And that was ultimately denied at the January planning commission meeting or the reconsideration of it was denied. And that is on appeal for this property.
 as well as well i'm happy to go into any more property specific details if you have any questions about that the application letters are in your packet okay i'm going to give the app the same 10 minutes that we had in the previous one if you'd like to address the council all right let's open it up for the public everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. And those that are on Zoom will speak after that. Is there anybody? Nobody's here. Nobody on Zoom. All right. And we'll bring back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have? I have a question for the applicant or the attorney.
 Either one. You made a comment about you had an attorney initially, right? Did that same case apply here?
 when you had the attorney and then something that he or she failed to do? Yeah, I actually sent a letter after the, I sent a, I thought was the appeal letter. Obviously I'm not very familiar with this and sent a letter to each and every one of you regarding my history of why I wanted these houses to be approved. Basically a transition into to Fayetteville. I have two daughters at the university. I'm a business owner and I plan to
 bring my business to Fayetteville, thinking that the letter was legit. It was not legit, obviously, and then I got a letter from the attorney saying it wasn't. So I reached out to a local attorney in Conway, which told me he would take care of the situation. It wasn't a problem.
 Only to find out that he didn't get it in time and so the appeal was not met and I was following his leadership because obviously I wasn't sure and he
 It didn't happen. So I had to start the process all over, which is a very lengthy process. And that's how you ended up with Mr. Copeland, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Joseph, I mean, the same thing. He wrote a letter. Just a little bit closer. I apologize, Mr. Ray. That attorney did write a letter attempting to perfect an appeal. I don't know if it was timely or not, but it certainly wasn't sufficient as far as substance, as far as the code.
 I'm pretty sure that it probably was not timely. I try to be as generous as I can with an appeal, but the time limit is something that we have to enforce. But even if it was timely, it was certainly not. No, I said, I don't think it was timely. I think that was probably the big mistake.
 I try to be as liberal as possible to allow someone to appeal except not one is to violation of the time limit I do believe we did they I think Blake's in an email pointing out maybe the time in this and the fact that specific code sections were not decided which is also required so but we can sometimes look at that but you can't really change if they don't make the time we can't we can't let it in
 I feel exceptionally bad because you're having to spend money with hiring attorneys and different attorneys and getting wrong information it's really unfortunate okay okay I am just noticing and you can answer this tonight I I I I
 I got a text from somebody watching and they forwarded me the snooze rules. And it's like, this is from Airbnb. And so you can snooze the listings for a set period of time. So you set the amount of time you snooze for.
 Yes, you can set it back months at a time. Yes, however you want to. But what problem with that is that if you don't understand the process, which I did not, once it's activated, it comes back on and activates for you automatically. Oh, if it's on snooze, yeah.
 Yeah, if it's on snows, yeah. But you're the one that says how long it's on snows for. Right, which I felt this was going to be taken care of and processed, done, and it snuck up on me. So once I found out that it was that way, it's very important 
 for me to do the right thing. If I wasn't here, I didn't even know anything about an STR rental service to begin with. I found out from someone else, and I came forward with everything to try to say, hey, I want to do this right. I'm here trying to do the right thing. Integrity means a lot to me. I'm a business owner of 23 years. It's very, very important to me to do the right thing. Okay, thank you.
 Motion to approve. I'm sorry. We go up. Council Member Hertzberg has her hand raised. Okay, go ahead, Holly. Sorry, guys. Just for the general public's information, the listings need to be removed from Airbnb or AirDNA or whatever you're using. It can't be snoozed. It has to be removed. Yes, ma'am. I can do that. Thank you. Motion to approve. Second. Second. Motion and second to approve. Same rules apply.
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turf? No. Hertzberg? No. Stafford? No. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whittaker? No. Berna? No. Okay. So that one failed. All right. Well, that concludes our business. What sort of announcements do we have? I have two announcements, Mayor.
 partnership with the Community Blood Center the Ozarks the city is hosting blood drive tomorrow tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the Fayetteville Square also the oops I'm sorry the mayor's environmental stewardship award nominations are being accepted the city of Fayetteville's environmental action committee is taking the nominations until March 1st and it is an annual award
 in the fourth year that recognizes excellence in environmental stewardship all the details are in our media release and on the website thanks okay anybody else i have one mayor jordan just really quickly i want to remind everyone that is the time that individuals can apply for a board committee or commission and the deadline to apply is friday february 23rd and the vacancies are posted on the city's website thank you okay anything else
 Okay, everybody, good work. We're adjourned.