I would like to call the City Council meeting of February 3, 2015, to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Latour. Present. Gray. Present. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Tenant. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 All right, good evening everyone. We will start with the consent agenda tonight. Number one, approval of the January 20, 2015 City Council Meeting Manage. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of one Chevrolet Equinox from Chevrolet of Federal in the amount of $20,247 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Parking Management Division.
 Number three, resolution to authorize the purchase of one Toyota Prius from Toyota of Federal in the amount of $22,627 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Building Safety Division and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four, resolution to authorize the purchase of one 2015 Ford F-250 from Lewis Ford of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $22,427 pursuant to a state procurement contract used
 used by the Animal Services Division. Number five, resolution to authorize the purchase of one 2015 Chevrolet Equinox all-wheel drive from Chevrolet of Edmonds in the amount of $21,699 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Utilities Directorate and to approve a budget adjustment. Number six, Landers Dodge of Benton.
 A resolution authorized the purchase of one 2015 Dodge Ram 1500 4x4 pickup truck from Landers Dodge of Benton, Arkansas, in the amount of $20,193 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Water and Sewer Division.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of one 2015 Dodge Ram 1500 pickup truck from Landers Dodge of Benton, Arkansas, in the amount of $20,367 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number eight, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a banded chipper shredder from Henard Utility Products in the amount of $32,522.25 plus applicable taxes pursuant to the National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Parks and Recreation Department and the Transportation Division.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve the purchase of one 2015 non-motor pool replacement vehicle from Bale Chevrolet in the amount of $32,371 with options pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number 10, Washington County Jail Services Interlocal Agreement Amendment, a resolution approving an amendment to the Jail Services Interlocal Agreement with Washington County, Arkansas, continuing fees at $60 per booked prisoner for calendar year 2015.
 Number 11, a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to utilize federal aid funds for the construction of the St. Street connection from North Front Street to Vantage Boulevard. Number 12, a resolution to approve an agreement with the Southwestern Electric Power Company to participate in the energy efficiency rebate program and total amount of $4,967.83 and to approve budget adjustment. Number 13, a
 Resolution approves utility work agreement with Swebco of Federal Arkansas for utility relocations as part of the Highway 112 widening project between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue with the amount to be paid by the City of Federal not to exceed $91,878.59. Number 14, a resolution approved contract grant Thornton LLP and the amount of $87,500 to provide independent audit services to the City of Federal.
 Number and number 15 resolution to designate approximately 14.2 acres of city property as training grounds for the federal fire department. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read. So moved. Second. A motion second to accept the consent agenda is read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 That's enough? Yes, they've got it. Okay, thank you. Just checking. All right, under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4864 for approximately 0.26 acres located at 332 West Ash Street from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading.
 I'm a second of most in a second go to earn finally. Under which please call the row. What you're yes, yes, right, yes, March, yes, yes, yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 14-4864 for approximately a quarter acre, located at 232 West Ash from RSF-4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF-24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 This item was left on the second reading at the request of the applicant last meeting. Just a brief reminder of the application. The location is at 232 West Ash Street, which is mid-block between Gregg Avenue and Woolsey Avenue. It's about a quarter acre. There's an existing single-family home on the property dating back to the 1950s.
 Existing zoning district is RSF4. Neighborhood to the east is all RSF4, single family and two-family residential. To the west is Gregg Avenue, which is a four-lane, minor arterial street, and some multifamily. And the request here is to rezone this property to RMF24 to match property that the same family owns to the west, the RMF24 zoning district. This is about a quarter acre, and the intent here is to add some dwelling units. Thank you.
 I think the request at the last time we discussed this was how many dwelling units could be added. 0.26 acres at RMF 24 technically could allow up to six dwelling units on the property. If you combine that with the property that the family owns to the west, the total property could entertain up to 17 total dwelling units if it were redeveloped in its entirety. Staff and the Planning Commission did not recommend approval of the rezoning at this time. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this?
 Okay, would the applicant like to say anything? I'm Terry Parker, the Parker & Associates. I just wanted to reiterate what we said before. I think what we're proposing will definitely fit in with the neighborhood and really be an enhancement. We're proposing to keep the existing single-family house that faces Ash Street, and that would act as a screen to the multifamily behind there, and I think that's good for the neighborhood.
 possibility of routing our traffic in from Gregg Street to this property across the land that the family owns at the same property. So that would help alleviate some of the traffic
 Anything else or if you have any questions? That was pretty much it. I mean, we plan on— Would you step just a little bit closer to the mic? This part's weird for me, talking to the microphone. But we plan on rooting the traffic off of— Can I get you to introduce yourself, please? Oh, my name is Taylor Kutruviz, and I own this property here on Ash Street. And the adjoining properties, there's two to the left of it, if you're facing the
 So what we plan to do is build a small triplex behind this house and then route, make the entrance to it from our current apartment building off of Gregg Street. When we talked with Quinn Thompson at the planning commission...
 He told us that you could only put three units back there with the RMF24 zoning due to the city's requirements for parking, green spaces and water management. And so we thought that this would actually fit in pretty nicely with the neighborhood. If you're coming off of Gregg Street, there are 16 units there, two townhome buildings beside each other. On the right-hand side, there's another large property zoned RMF24 that's being developed
 Behind that is another apartment complex, and so then you have our house across the street from there with this lot behind it. And so we think that, you know, that's the transition on the other side of the street. Why can't we do that on our side of the street? When we first came up with this idea to build this back behind the little house, I never thought that zoning would be an issue just because it already matches everything that's already there.
 And this house that we fixed in the front of the lot was abandoned. I mean, it was overgrown and really beat up and we completely, my husband and I rebuilt that by hand. So the area already looks better. And I think by building this triplex behind the house, you won't be able to see it from the neighborhood from Ash Street, but it will increase everyone's property values, which is great for this older neighborhood.
 i don't think it's a good idea to really like red line off this property or this neighborhood and not allow improvements i think that if we build on this land it would help everyone out everyone out and we've already planned with the money that we get to build the building back there we're going to also improve the apartment buildings that face greg which are basically the entrance to the back side of this neighborhood so it'll make the whole area look a lot nicer
 I know there was concern also before that if we sell the property that someone could come through and bulldoze everything we've built and then build something larger which might not fit in with the neighborhood. But as a Greek family, we don't sell any properties. So you don't have to worry about that. Go ahead. Sure. When I look at this map, just to clarify –
 The entrance is going to be if I'm running one of those triplexes do I on Greg turn into the first apartment driveway or the second and is that going to connect back there. Are you looking at the 2 town home buildings there okay so right between those buildings is a large space a green space and that would be the area where the driveway would go we would just I guess if the
 If the building that borders Ash Street, you would probably enter through that parking lot and go through. And we've measured and made sure that that driveway complies with the city's requirements. You have to have two cars to be able to go at the same time and a little bit of extra space, basically. And that does comply.
 I mean the concrete goes almost so it goes almost all the way to the building already so we would just we talked with our concrete guy and just continue that into the new parking lot okay and then as far as the House on Ash Street we're going to build a privacy fence behind that House and give them a little yard and and say if you were driving down Ash you wouldn't see into this backyard I see okay it would just look like a normal House okay thank you any other questions for the applicant from the council yes Al
 I was just curious to clarify, when you said they would enter through the parking lot of the townhouse complex closest to Ash, would they enter through the actual parking lot or would there be another curb cut onto Gregg? They would use the current curb cut. The same one. The same one. It would go actually almost direct, it's like almost a straight line from the curb cut off of Gregg straight into the backyard there for the land. I just wanted to clarify. Thank you. I appreciate it. No problem.
 taylor i don't suppose your crystal ball works any better than mine but if we were not to grant you this zoning rezoning of this property what do you think will happen to this property
 We plan to leave it the same. We use the front house as a rental property, so we would continue renting that home. And then we also talked with the city, with the zoning board, and they said that we could get a special permit to build a duplex there. So I think maybe down the line we would build a duplex because it just it feels like a lot of land to waste there. There's a huge yard and we'd like to, you know, use it for something.
 So if we did not get this zoning, I guess in the future we'd work to do something else there. As a follow-up question, would you describe this section of Gregg Street as a quiet, single-family neighborhood sort of avenue?
 As I mentioned before, I think it's kind of a mix. On Gregg, it's not. There's apartment buildings. There's a huge complex just a block up towards Sycamore on Gregg. There's our townhomes, and then if you continue north, it's all apartments on Gregg. If you go into this neighborhood down Ash Street, it slowly transitions...
 from there's a few townhomes and then there's duplexes and then it gets to single-family but if you look at a plot map showing the owners of those properties you can tell they're all rentals the duplex next to us is obviously rented and there's on Woolsey there's four properties owned by JR ball behind our house there's one owned by JR ball every single home on our street is owned by an LLC or a rental minus one half of that duplex
 And the majority of the homes on Woolsey are rented as well. So I think when this neighborhood was created or developed maybe in the 70s or so, it was designed as a single-family, small-family residential neighborhood. I think now it's turning into, even though they're single-family homes, it's more rental-minded as the school's growing and people are kind of invading that area. Thank you, Taylor. You're welcome. Okay. Is there any other questions? All right. Thank you all.
 Is there any public comment on this? Mr. Mayor, I should note that there's been no bill of assurance offered here. The statements about what they would do with the zoning are totally unenforceable and really the City Council should not rely upon that. Certainly their description of the neighborhood, you can look at that to see if it's compatible to that.
 Really, we probably went much more into depth in something like this than what we should have in any zoning decision Because once the zoning decision has been made and they can do whatever they want to that There's only would allow them and whether they enter from an apartment parking lot or something else that's beyond our control and it's something that once they have the zoning decision that they can go forward and
 And without any bill of assurance, there's nothing else that really you need to consider. It's just whether this is the proper zoning for that parcel. Jeremy, would you explain to us again why the staff did not support this project? I'm sorry? Would you explain to me again why the staff did not support this project? I think—
 The discussion about the transition is the real issue for staff and I think what was probably the crux of some of the planning commission discussion although they got more into traffic I think more than Then staff was concerned about primarily because we feel like it's relatively close to Greg Avenue which is a is a traveled street honestly
 One of the concerns about development providing more access on the great without a turn lane actually could become an issue. Backing cars up trying to turn left into the site so it's something we just have to review as part of any development application but. The applicants correct me I think there is a transition right along Greg avenue that is definitely multifamily even industrial across the street it. Over 50% of payable residents are rental and so that's not a surprise that that that.
 doesn't surprise us at all there are a Number of properties owned by also LCS in all of our neighborhoods so I think really you have to look at the context of the neighborhood and understand kind of what the Walking around that that space walking around the blocks. They're driving through the blocks. They're kind of what the transition is and
 as mr williams mentioned um i think and the applicants mentioned i think they have every intent to do exactly what they say um 50 years down the road the zoning still prevails as we we've seen properties develop that were zoned 30 and 40 years ago along college avenue that we really wish weren't zoned that way but that decision was made and we can't change that at this time so i think that's our concern is just looking at these on a case-by-case basis and um
 Adding that adding the ability to have a larger apartment complex this close proximity to that neighborhood Simply was concerning to us. Okay, can I make a comment? Am I allowed to? I'm gonna allow it. I usually don't but I will allow this. Okay was Mr. Pate stated before if we did demolish everything and rebuild the zoning combining the lots would allow for 17 Units, but there's already 16
 there so i don't think it's that much of a change if you include all our property there okay thank you all right i'm going to bring it back to the council yes mark this is in ward two and i've been contacted by individuals in the woodland neighborhood and they don't support this i didn't get anyone calling me that did support it in the neighborhood
 There is a concern with the neighborhood and the individuals that I talked to about the encroachment of multifamily and rentals into the neighborhood. This is probably an area where I get the most complaints with single-family homes that perhaps may have more individuals living in them because of the rental situation.
 Immediately across the street is a historic home that was relocated on to Ash because it is a relatively quiet entrance into the neighborhood. The other issue that has been pointed out to me is, again, the traffic concerns of going from Gregg into the project and the fact that it
 it would add more congestion especially if someone were turning in to the left from the north and they also they think that there's already uh situations of concern there because of the way the topography is in the uh i guess you're going up a hill if you're heading south so i can't support this i support what the staff said
 based on the information from the staff, this does offer a buffer into a traditional single family neighborhood that feels like that they're being a little bit pressured with development and with rentals and they hope to see the preservation of single family homes in order to protect the integrity of the single family neighborhood as it's currently established.
 So, I just wanted to mention that because I have been contacted with a great deal of concern with people throughout the Woodland neighborhood as this encroachment starts into the neighborhood. Okay. All right, Council, what other thoughts we got here? John? With all due respect, Mayor, I have a great deal of respect for property owner rights, and I think a property owner will do what's best for his or her property.
 I don't think that they will build something that will be ugly because who would rent it, who would buy it? They have a great financial incentive not to make the neighbors upset, to try to keep it as least intrusive as possible because I'm sure they want to get along with their neighbors like I try to get along with my neighbors. That's what bothers me about regulation of real property. I'm not saying we shouldn't have planning.
 I'm saying we should give deference to a property owner's desires for their property. Who knows what's best for that property but the person who owns it, who pays the taxes, who defends the lawsuits, who maintains it apparently with her own bare hands. That's what bothers me. This notion that traffic is somehow bad, traffic is a good problem to have. It means people want to be here.
 It means population is coming here. Yes, we do have traffic problems. I'm not denying that, but I'm saying traffic is a good sign. People want that. If there's more traffic by that property, probably all the property values are going up for some purpose. That should benefit the neighborhood to some degree. I realize, well, I live next door to Razorback Stadium. Six days a year these days, I have lots of traffic in front of my house.
 I realized that when I bought the property. I'm not complaining about it. I celebrate it. And if I want to put up a political sign, more people see my political sign. So I think the traffic adds value to my property. I think traffic would add value to anybody's property for that purpose. I support the applicant's efforts. Okay. Thank you, John. Anybody else have any final comments? Yes. Sarah. This has been a really tough decision for me because –
 I don't think necessarily that adding a few more units where they're trying to put them would be a bad thing.
 I try to evaluate this in terms of our 2030 city plan. It says making appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priorities, and this is definitely a central site. I think about if we're building this livable transportation network, how could people walk or bike to the site? And right now there's not really any sidewalks along North Gregg Avenue, or at least not continuous ones in order to access goods and services there.
 but you know you could bike over to the skull creek trail system um i'm really split 50 50 and so generally in this uh in this sort of situation i'm going to go with the staff and the planning commission's recommendation because i just don't see a compelling reason to overrule them so i'm going to take their professional advice and vote against the rezoning um
 but you know recognizing that they still would be able to build an accessory dwelling unit in the backyard or a duplex they could do a conditional use permit so i do still think that they've got some options and i'm not opposed necessarily to seeing something happen with that backyard but i don't think that the current proposal is is the right one at this time so that's that's where i'm standing on okay anybody else
 Okay, if there's not any other discussion and it's time to vote, Sandra, would you please call the roll? The chair? Before I cast the wrong vote. Sure, I'm sorry. If I say yes, I'm voting for the applicant's proposal, correct? Or the rezoning. Yes, you are. My answer is yes. Long? Gray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Tenant? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 The ordinance fails on that vote. Okay. Thank you all. All right. Number two. In order to repeal and replace Title V, Public Works...
 Article 3 discharge and pretreatment regulations to amend 51.137 monthly sewer rates to amend 51.138 definitions pertaining to water and sewer rates into a min 51.9 Nine nine penalty and to amend 10.99 general penalty of the federal code Will entertain a motion to go to the second reading And motion is second to go to the second reading Sondra, would you please call the roll? I?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tenet? Yes. An ordinance to repeal and replace Title V of Public Works, Article III, Discharge and Pretreatment Regulations to amend Section 51.137, Monthly Sewer Rates, to amend 51.138, Definitions Pertaining to Water and Sewer Rates, to amend Section 51.999, Penalty
 And to amend section 10.99 general penalty of the Fayetteville code. As we explained last time, we need a little bit of time to have the notice out and have the public hearing, which will be scheduled for the next meeting. I don't know if Tim wants to add anything else, but if after that, we still need to leave this on the second reading so we can have the third and final reading at our next meeting. Okay, so we want to hold it right here then.
 We do need to do that. I don't know if Tim has something to add. Yeah, Tim, do you have anything to add? I just was here to answer any questions you may have. Okay, is there any questions from the council? We'll leave it right here. We have published a notice. We're waiting for time to run, and they hear special meeting. I mean, special hearing will be at the next meeting. Okay, all right. I'll take a little public comment on this. Anybody want to address this on this? Otherwise, we're going to hold it and come back again. Everybody good? All right, let's go to number three.
 an ordinance to enact Article 3 procedure to exercise initiative and referendum rights of Chapter 36 elections and to the Federal Code to clarify the proper procedure for the citizens' right, initiative and referendum. If I may? Sure.
 We had a request to table this until March 17th. I would ask that we do that and table this until March 17th. We're going to have an ordinance review meeting
 on February 18th and this will be the only item on that agenda. As chairman of that committee, I assure the public that they'll have ample time to make public comments at that meeting if they so choose. We will also do our due diligence and if there's any suggestions to be made, do it at that time and that will give us about a month
 to uh... to work with uh... kit and staff and uh... and and have uh... and have an item that we can look at i would rather i would ask the council that we that we table and not read it the second time just because i think
 We could table it without having a second reading, and that would give us time after an interview to make our suggestions, and then if we table it till March 17th, that would give us the second and third reading at that point to allow public plenty of time to look at the finalized documents
 and and make any suggestions or comments that they would like to do it also give the council time I don't think there's a hurry so I support tabling this to March 17th I would just like to table it without moving to the second reading if if anyone else is in agreement with that I second that motion. Okay what's your thoughts about it. I agree. Okay all right so we're going to well we need we need a vote mayor.
 Well, I'm just trying to get it right in my head here what we need to do. So when's the ordinance review? February 18th. I sent out a memo today suggesting that we wait out until really a month after that to give us plenty of time to get it on the regular agenda for any changes or suggestions that the Ordinance Review Committee might make. So it's my understanding we won't table this until March 17th, correct? That's correct, Your Honor. Anybody got that? Okay.
 Any final comments on this? We do need to call the roll. Is that right? I will take some public comment if somebody would just like to address it, but we're going to table this until March 17th. Okay? All right. All right, I'll bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tenet? Yes. Okay, moving on to new business. The bill is still in the second. First review. Yeah, it was left on the first.
 OK, number one, your order is only that property described rezoning petition RZN 14 dash 4882 for approximately 21.63 acres located on the East Side Rupert Rd North Boys and Girls Club from our PZD residential plan zoning district.
 RPCD 06-1884, Westside Village to NS Neighborhood Services. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from RPZD, Residential Plan Zoning District, RPZD 06-1884, Westside Village, to Neighborhood Services, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached to it and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville actually hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jeremy. The staff initiated rezoning of a property that was formally approved for development in 2006 called Westside Village. It's about a little under 22 acres north of the Boys and Girls Club in West Fable on RuPaul Road. The zoning currently is a residential plan zoning district. However, that zoning has expired, so there's no development or zoning rights on the property. The property is currently undeveloped with the exception of some driveways and parking areas that were originally constructed but never completed.
 The future land use plan in this area designates the site as a complete neighborhood plan. It was part of the Weddington Corridor Master Plan. And the proposed zoning, which is neighborhood services, would allow for a mixture of uses, primarily residential, but also some small-scale commercial uses, office uses, and other supporting services.
 We feel like the zoning of this property would be compatible with surrounding land uses, including, as I mentioned, the Boys and Girls Club, Ozarks Electric, which is a light industrial type use to the north and east. Across Rupert Road, the land is entirely single-family and two-family residential with the density of around 10 units per acre, which is what Neighborhood Services also allows. And staff is supportive, obviously, as we initiated the request, and the Planning Commission voted 9-0 in favor of this rezoning as well.
 Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this from the council? Anything? Okay. Do we have any public, oh, I suppose is the applicant here, would they like to make a few, is there a? Staff is the applicant in this case. Okay. We initiated, we did contact the property owner. All right. Is there any public comment on this? Yes, sir.
 I live off of Fieldstone. I just really have some questions because I saw there was starting to be some construction there, so I was thinking they were going to build what they had planned. I didn't see any notice that there was going to be changes there, so I don't know if the residents in that area had significant notice that there was going to be a change. Like I said, I do go down there occasionally, but I didn't see a sign that there was going to be changes.
 It was going to be on the Planning Commission. Once I saw this on the agenda, I went back and there was definitely no sign. So I don't know if you guys had it there and took it down. I don't know. I was just really interested in what the neighborhood services were. What can they build there? Is there going to be like a gas station? Is it going to be like really high traffic?
 Because it is kind of in a residential area, although they are next to a fire station, so I can't really tell them. It's going to be a lot of noise. If they separate through the fire station, I'm pretty sure that they can separate through the high traffic. What is exactly the neighborhood services? Is there gas stations or is it just offices, doctor's offices?
 And I mean, yeah. So, neighborhood services is, allows for a number of, primarily residential uses, but it also allows for what we call limited business. Limited business is small scale, so 3 to 5,000 square feet of offices, cafes, coffee shops, dry cleaners. It does not allow gas stations. Okay. It does not allow like larger scale commercial uses.
 It's really pretty limited. And so that was the intent there, because there's not a lot of commercial activity right there in the middle of the block between Rupal.
 Yeah, well I can see like small, smaller. And to your first question, what we do on notification is just like we treat ourselves like a normal applicant. So we obviously notify the property owner and there's a letter in the package showing that. We also notify any adjacent property owner. So those directly adjacent to the site. Like I said, they live next to a fire station. Right, exactly. And then a sign goes up before planning commission. I was wondering about, because I just like, I don't recall seeing that sign there.
 I just want to make sure they have notice. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you, Bob. Anyone else like to address us on this? Yes. I'm sorry. No. If it's all right with council and planning staff, if there's no hurry on this, I'd like to hold it until after the next Ward 4 meeting so that we can take some comment. I know the Ruppel Road Property Owners Association is very active in the ward. So I'd like to hold it. So you just want to hold it right here, Alan? If we could.
 That would be wonderful. I'm good. Mr. I would like to thank the staff for bringing this forward. I've been concerned about there are several properties around town that have expired PZDs, which means that the property owner cannot build anything or develop their property in any way. And that's why I asked the planning department to look, and when they find one of those with an expired PZD, they recommend what they believe would be the best zoning.
 sometimes in conjunction with the owner, but sometimes the owner doesn't make any recommendations, and so they decide themselves what would be best and most compatible with that neighborhood, and I appreciate them coming forward and doing that. Okay. So we'll hold this one right here. Mr. Mayor. All right. Number two. Mr. Mayor. I'm sorry. Yes. Well, I was actually going to ask if we could table it until the March 3rd meeting. That's when the next — that's the first meeting after the next Ward 4 meeting. Okay. So you want to table.
 Until March 3rd. Why did you want to table it the ward for meetings the 23rd? Okay, I take that as a motion to table Okay Motion in the second table until the March 3rd Council meeting Any comments from the council on this?
 Well, this is an expired PZD, right? It's been sitting there like this for eight years, so there's no problem waiting another month. That's what I'm saying. So another month. I'm scared. I'm good. Good point. The only thing I might add, and it's certainly supportive of, like Jeremy said, table as long as you'd like, based on how long we've been going.
 Remember, these are ordinances that each go one progressive reading for each meeting. So just by leaving it on a reading, it will not do any further action. You're on your very first reading of it tonight. So by the time you get to the date past the board meeting, rather than having to waive three readings or multiple ratings, you would be at your third reading. OK, we have a motion and a second anyway, so we're going to need to vote on this anyhow.
 So, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Tennant? Yes. Okay, so I guess we'll leave it right here. Right. You could vote if you wanted to, Mayor. It requires a majority of the voting members for an internal motion like this, and it's 3-3. I'm not going to vote. Okay, so it's left on the first. Okay. All right, number two. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, it is described in the rezoning petition RZN 14-4883 for approximately 93.04 acres located at Highway 112 North Trucker's Drive from R, PZD 05-1796.
 Residential Plan Zoning District Park West to RSF 8, residential single-family 8 units per acre, and CS Community Services. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following inscribed property from RPZD 05-1796, Residential Planning Zoning District Park West to,
 to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre, and community services as shown on Exhibits A and B attached to it and made a part hereof. And Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are also hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Chairman. This is another expired PCD that was also approved in 2006. It was also a residential planned zoning district, a mixed use project, very large project, over 100 acres with quite a few different uses. That project, as I mentioned, has expired. Nothing was ever developed on this particular one. It's located along Highway 112, between 112 and Dean Solomon Road north, the Sam's Club area, just south of the Van Asch extension that the city's currently constructed.
 constructing two parcels on the property have actually already been re-zoned within the last six months or so There's one on which it churches currently being constructed that was owned Community services and a second was re-zoned. I think a meeting or two ago very recently north of truckers Drive and
 This remaining piece of the property staff again initiated a rezoning request 30 a little over 33 acres We're requesting to rezone RSF 8 residential single-family 8 units per acre And the balance of the PZD about around 60 acres to community services, and there's a map I don't have the page numbers on here. So sorry, but it's a map in your packet that shows the different uses and different zoning proposed on the application
 Staff of course is supportive of this this selling designation there's actually two future line use plan Nations on the site residential neighborhood area and city neighborhood area and if you'll notice the residential neighborhood area is more to the west Which is more single-family gets into pretty rural actually land uses in that far western side with some neighborhoods to the north as well Along highway 112 is not developed commercially at this time other than the drive-in and
 theater and a restaurant however with the addition of van asch extension and future plans for highway 112 we do fully anticipate that this area will see increased interest for the viability of probably commercial mixed use development and so we're simply attempting to plan for that and be proactive with the zoning to allow for those types of uses which they currently do not.
 so staff is supportive of this request planning commission voted nine to zero and we went through the same notification process as well with this particular application okay what questions do we have in the council for jeremy sorry ma'am sorry um jeremy i was just curious so the um the van ashe extension at that point that's still within the box right
 It is so it is further back then and is probably a quarter, maybe a third of a mile to the north and it connects up to a highway one twelve, which will be a t intersection instead of the s curve that you have now. And that continues along one twelve until it goes back toward the north and then it goes west along the north.
 forgotten the name of the road there that's actually in the county I guess just you know if we're thinking about for future transit planning and you know how we're gonna
 Hopefully run some transit lines around the perimeter of the box Just seems like the the area that you've designated for RSF 8 should that why did you make it such a low intensity use? It seems like that might be a better fit for something that might be more high intensity I think part of it is topography. So there's quite a bit of terrain there if you if you drive 112 here there's a quite a bit of
 elevation gain and loss or hilly through there. And I think also there's some well established single family residential neighborhoods that we don't see changing some of them are brand new still building out. directly across the street, for instance, there's a subdivision that's still under construction. And so the council's made some language decisions in that area that we felt needed to be honored, so this is a higher intensity higher density I guess use and that just rsf for.
 But we're really trying to concentrate some of those mixture of uses still within walking distance through the neighborhood but more along the area where the highway is and where we see Van Ash connecting up to the Northeast part of town north part of town over along Greg and in the mall in that area. Okay. Thank you Anybody else? I'll open it up some public comment on this on up Aubrey. I'll be Shepherd in 2007 I
 Walked over a great part of that property and that whole area north of Sam's and west of the 112 all the way over to the golf course and all those things. Our Wilson Spring Wildlife Area nature area is immediately downstream. Everything that happens on land there and even across the street uphill toward the mall. So this is a
 probably much of it is a critical groundwater recharge area for headwaters of the Illinois River. So when we were there in 2007, I have that massive pictures on a flicker set. I posted them today. I'll link to that, hoping some people would see it. It's wetland, seasonal wetland. We were out there looking at the
 little darters in the stream that are rare and crawfish that are endemic to the area. Joe Neal was there. He's long been concerned about the Wilson Spring area. Gosh, when I was young, almost. But anyhow, this, I think, should be tabled. And before you do a mass zoning, a parcel that big, you should have a Corps of Engineers
 actually delineate the significant portions of wetland, those streams through it. And, you know, it's wonderful the PZD never got done because it wouldn't have been necessarily done that well. But in 2006 and seven, we were still, I think, having Corps of Engineers delineation as part of the planning commission's material to see. And you guys probably had access to it. But anyway,
 I think that without that kind of knowledge, that kind of zoning that would allow 24, what is it, RMF 24, single family RMF 24 is a quarter acre. Tell me again, Jeremy.
 what would it allow this particular request is for um rsf 8 which is residential single family eight units per acre that's in the northwest corner of the site portions of the property have already been zoned multi-family so that's already existing and then community services would be the other zone the 59 acres along 112 and going west along the collector street so on near the northwest corner of it i remember
 one one item there was a home that had springs coming up underneath it. It's wonderful property I'd love for everybody to get to see all the land before it's rezone and understand what it stands for what it what it can mean future. It's protected and that fact that we're not you know hearing Corbin junior report on the on parcels that are being rezoned allowed to be
 developed is a step way back 20 years ago or more that was done routinely so please uh at least give another two weeks for anybody else who might be interested to come speak about it it was kind of a surprise to me i'd forgotten it was what's happening till this morning when i looked at your agenda on the internet and said oh we need to be sure it's considered because once you zone it
 It's very hard to without a PZD that explains or a subdivision set up that requires because you see these lots in South well in many other areas where people are buying property or planning to buy it and they come in and asked to have it zone and even lot splits on it and then guess what
 there's no protection of the tree canopy on those lots there's no watershed protection because when you have eight houses on an acre there's not likely to be any place left of the natural soil where water can soak in be filtered through to the watershed thank you thank you albrey so y'all want to leave this on and it'll be time to run to the award meeting
 Everybody good? All right, let's leave it right here. OK, number three. In order to rezone that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 14-4916 for approximately 0.32 acres located at 957 Ray Avenue from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to NSS neighborhood services. Kit? BEARD LAWYER 2- Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1,
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following inscribed property from residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to neighborhood services, as shown on exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 This is a request from an applicant to rezone a property near the southeast corner of Huntsville Road and Ray Avenue, directly east of the property come and go bought from the city in the last year. It contains about a 2,000 square foot office building constructed in around 1970. The current zoning of the property is RMF 24, which allows for multifamily use but not necessarily office use.
 In our research we found that the property was at one point previously zoned C1 Which is our neighborhood commercial zoning designation? and
 and we have some of that research in the application there, the packet for you. Regardless, zoning the property is RMF 24. It's always been utilized as an office from what we can tell, and that's what the applicant would like to continue utilizing it for. And so to bring that use and conformity, we recommended the applicant apply for the neighborhood services designation, which, like we talked about on RuPaul Road, is a zoning designation that allows for primarily –
 single-family two-family uses but it also allows for low intensity smaller Non-residential uses so this close to Huntsville Road We felt comfortable recommending this application and felt it would be compatible with the neighborhood Planning Commission agreed with that of the vote of nine to zero questions they want to Bring to your attention the applicant called us this afternoon is I'm sick with the flu I believe so could not be present tonight I
 So you're all welcome to leave it on this reading, or if you're comfortable approving it, the applicant doesn't have to be here for those applications. But I just wanted to let you be aware of that. I'll just go on and move it. All right. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay.
 mr mayor you can uh vote to approve this i'm going to vote for it okay that passes then an ordinance rezoning that property described and rezoning petition rzn 14-4916 for approximately a third of an acre located at 956 ray avenue from residential multifamily 24 units per acre to neighborhood services the only other thing that you might want to consider to have the the applicant here is the fact that uh the current structure uh
 would be incompatible with neighborhood services in that it's not built to the build-to zone. Of course, we've changed the requirements for the current zoning, which also requires the structure in RMF 24 to also be close to the road. But sometimes it's good to be able to advise the applicant in person to make sure that they realize
 what's happening and I of course I think Jeremy probably advised that way by your office anyway but we did and we actually looked at a number C one which is another option for this applicant would also create a non conforming structure with their setbacks and so there's really not a perfect zoning district to bring both the use and the structure and compliance we felt the use was most important.
 because the Board of Adjustment, for instance, cannot grant a use variance. They can grant an existing non-conforming structure variance for a setback. So our staff did advise the applicant of that. So they're aware. OK. Yes, Mark. So just to clarify, it's my understanding that if we voted for this, then they would go to the Board of Adjustments? If they chose to do so. They don't have to use the existing structure, but they could, certainly. They wouldn't have to, but they could.
 It would be an existing non-conforming structure if they did not. Otherwise, they could have it recognized, and then it would be completely legal and conforming. And if they're going to use it as an office, they couldn't get that kind of relief from the Board of Adjustment, which you can for not having it in the bill-to-zone. Right. Okay, let me take some public comments. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. May we suspend the rules and go to the third reading? Second. Second.
 I have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Saundra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? No. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? No. That fails, so it's left on the second reading. All right. Okay, number four, RPCD.
 14-4924 South Shallow Drive, Hawkins House at Shallow Village. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone petition RZN 14-4924. For approximately 10.74 acres located at South Shallow Drive from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre to RPCD 14-4924 Residential Planned Zoning District, Hawkins House. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the following described property from residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RPZD 14-4924 residential planned zoning district Hawkins House, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached to the two made a part hereof.
 Section 2, that the change in zoning classification is based upon the master plan depicted in the PCD booklet and PLATS as submitted and termed appropriate and approved by the City Council. Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay Jeremy. This property is located on the west side of I-49 approximately half mile of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. The planning commission approved a large scale development on the property back in 2007 for the development of almost 200 multifamily dwelling units with 20 separate buildings. It's currently zoned RMF 24 allowing for up to 24 units per acre.
 All the interior private streets and utility lines were constructed at that time however only five of the buildings were actually completed These are the red buildings that you see on the on the west side of i-49 You also see currently several buildings under construction. This is the large-scale development that was recently approved in this past year for five new apartment buildings containing 46 new residential units that will look similar to the others they're under construction currently and
 That part of the construction and the remaining property are the subject of this proposal, which is a residential planned zoning district. The Planning Commission has already approved a preliminary plat subject to this rezoning approval by the City Council.
 The primary reason for that is to allow for some of the units to be sold as lots. And so with a large-scale development, you usually see one large lot with multiple buildings on it. That's part of the property, which really utilizes apartments. What they'd like to do is offer two other types of for-sale properties, one of which you could buy as a condo, but also be able to split some of the buildings out as lots. You could actually buy an individual townhome if you so chose.
 I'm staff is supportive of that request really doesn't change anything about the development in and of itself. It's just another mechanism to allow for injury into this type of product so funny commission for this item the City Council with a recommendation for approval of the zoning with a vote of 9 to 0 as I mentioned the preliminary plat which is the development request sorry pre by the planning committee subject to your approval of this. Okay, what questions we have Jeremy on this Council.
 Okay. What public comment do we have on this one? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Do we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Lutcher? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes.
 And ordinance rezoning that property ascribed and rezoning petition RZN 14-4924 for approximately 10.74 acres. Located at South Shiloh Drive from residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RPZD 14-4924, Hawkins House. We'll suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Second.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property is described in a rezoning petition RZN 14-4924 for approximately 10.74 acres located at South Shiloh Drive from residential multifamily 24 units per acre to residential planned zoning district 14-4924 Hawkins House. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Sounded which police call the roll.
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Okay. Number five, resolution to amend the Federal Alternative Transportation and Trails Master Plan by clarifying.
 that separated bicycle pedestrian trails are planned for the interstate 49 interchange garland avenue highway 112 weddington drive highway 16 and martin luther king junior boulevard highway 62 and to amend the master street plan to add a typical cross section for separated bicycle pedestrian trails
 This resolution actually needs to be amended by the document that was handed out tonight. And I think Chris Brown can explain why. But after he explains it, then I would like, or Jeremy or Don, whoever wants to explain it, and then we'll need a motion to amend this resolution and also the exhibits.
 Mr. Mayor, I'll explain the request first and then the reason for the passed out updated version. As you all know, the city has been in communication with the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department, or A-H-T-D, for quite some time on their conceptual designs for almost all the interchanges, not the Cato Springs interchange, but all the other interchanges within Fayetteville as part of their improvement plan.
 program along all of the I-49 corridor in northwest Arkansas. Back in April, I believe, the City Council voted to approve a resolution supporting—several comments actually were included, but one of the comments was to support the inclusion of separated bicycle and pedestrian trail facilities as opposed to proposed bike lanes.
 The reason the bike lanes were there in the first place is that the HTD does have a policy of following a city's master street plan essentially And include include Construction of bicycle pedestrian facilities if it is on an adopted master plan if you don't have it on an adopted master plan They don't include it. So certainly grateful for them for doing that However at all of the interchanges where it's high traffic a lot of turning movements Some of these areas will have six or eight lanes because of the high volume. I
 bicycle lanes within traffic we felt was not the safest provision of those facilities and so our staff got together and recommended essentially providing trails in this area so separated facilities and there's a cross section in your in your packets showing those those facilities so.
 In all these cases it would connect up to existing trails because as you all know we have very limited crossings of I-49 so we have to utilize these interchanges as really the only way we have to get across to connect West Fayetteville and the rest of Fayetteville. And so that was the important component of that.
 We received word back on the first interchange of all of them that that was not going to be something they could support because their policy states essentially they follow the adopted master plan. And our adopted master plan currently essentially states that we have on street linkages, which we interpret as many different things. It can be bicycle lanes. It can be cycle tracks. It could be separated pedestrian and trail facilities or multi-use trails combined.
 So we decided it was important enough to go down and meet with the director of Arkansas on State and Highway Department, Highway and Transportation Department and their staff. We did so a couple of weeks ago and received some feedback that really the best opportunity for them to still be able to follow their policy would be for us to clarify ours. And so that's what we brought to you as a clarification of what we are meaning when we
 linkages or pedestrian bicycle facilities are necessary in this area. So what we've done is included two amendments. One is to our master alternative transportation and trails master plan, or the fat plan is it's it's a little bit different than the
 and also our master street plan to clarify that these are all interchanges or all have trail linkages and we want to ensure that the highway department knows that and it's clear that we prefer the separated facilities as the safest alternative for that type of transportation and recreational use
 It it does deserve to be to be said that we're right in the middle of going out and preparing an rfq for a master transportation plan and so all of these interchanges and all of our street cross sections would be will be looked at over the next year. The time is of the essence on this one, so we felt like we need to bring it to you. The highway department, how in transportation department indicated that there is 60% completion on drawings, at least on the highway one twelve interchange, and so we wanted to make sure they got this.
 If it's approved and signed, we'll ship it immediately to Little Rock and make sure they have that so they can consider it in their designs. We've already done that, by the way. We've already sent them the cross-section that we hope will be approved just to get their feedback, and thus the reason for the alternative packet that you had tonight. They gave us some feedback on that, and so we've clarified that even further for their use.
 Really not necessarily the cross section, but how the map reads showing the limited areas where this applies at the interchanges And Chris might be able to explain any of those in detail if you have a question specifically about those but essentially what we're trying to do is show that these are part of our multi-use trail network and we support and encourage and prefer as the safest and We believe the most what will be the most used utilized routes would be separated pedestrian and bicycle facilities. I
 Okay, what questions do we have Chris is ready? Okay, if there are no questions Then I would ask you all to make someone to make a motion to amend the current The resolution that was originally handed out to the amended resolution that was handed out tonight That is in the paper form in front of you. So moved Discussion on that. All right, so under would you please call the roll? Oh
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 i'll take a little public comment on this if anybody has wants to address this on this come on my poverty i'll be shepherd again please uh with those trails separated trails for people and and on bicycles and walking on every bridge and every major intersection you can i'm sure there'll be more in the future that will require those thank you thank you all anyone else okay
 Do we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution? Yes. We need one. We did? Have we done that yet? No, so moved. Okay. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to pass the amended resolution. Any final comments on this?
 I just like to say thank you to the staff for catching this and being so quick to act this is so important I regularly use the mount comforts underpass on my bicycle and even as an experienced cyclist it's terrifying it's hard to see and to be seen by the cars there's people going in a lot of different directions so it you know I try to judge the safety or the effectiveness of our trail system by the six to sixty
 metric which is you know what a six-year-old you'd be safe on it or a 60 year old be safe on it and and without that barrier there I don't think they would be so this is absolutely essential and thank you for putting this together okay yeah comments all right Sandra would you please call the roll Loutier yes Long yes Gray yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Tannant yes
 Okay, that concludes our business for tonight. What is now? Yes. Before we conclude our business, I'd like to make a motion to reconsider the Trumbus group appeal. I second the motion, Mr. Mayor. Okay. We have a reconsideration of the Trumbus. We go back to that. All right. I mean, before I get into it, I'd just like to say that I was just as torn as Sarah was on this. I, looking at the zoning.
 I really do think it's compatible. I mean, it's surrounded on two sides by the type of zoning they're looking for. So, you know, about a minute after I voted, I regret it. That's fine. That's fine. Anybody got anything else they want to say on it? All right, let us begin again. Well, this first thing will be a vote whether or not to reconsider. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? LeChir. Yes. Long. Yes. Yes.
 Right. Yes. Marsh. No. Kenyon. No. Tenet. Yes. OK, the motion passes. So the item is now back on the agenda. All right. So is there any final comments on this? Mayor, what was our vote? Fortitude. Fortitude. All righty. Yes, Mark. I just want to emphasize that this was also tough for me because I do look at the activity here
 And it was out of respect and true concern for the neighborhood that is currently there that is primarily single family that they wanted the protection offered by the suggestion of the staff and the planning commission. And then also in consideration of the traffic patterns that are in that area. Okay. Anything else?
 I just think it would be important to note that if we don't approve what they're looking for, they're talking about coming back with a duplex instead of a triplex. So it would just be one additional unit. And really there's only one adjacent property with a housing unit on it that's not multifamily. So that's why I've changed my mind on that and I think that it would be suited for multifamily. Okay.
 All right. Anything else? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Tenet? Yes. That fails on Mr. Mayor because it requires five or four votes to pass an ordinance. Okay. Now that concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 We have quite a number of positions opens on boards and commissions so I would encourage our constituents all out through the city to go on the website and look for those places because we would love to have you serving in a on a board of commission in our city. Okay, thank you. All right, thank you all very much.