Good evening, everyone. I want to call the City Council meeting of February 19, 2019, to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The first order of business we have tonight under presentations, we have the Federal Fire Department. They have a special citizen's recognition award that at this time, Chief Dayring, would you come forward and do that? You have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and City Council, for allowing us to take this time to recognize a fellow city employee for his heroic actions at the scene of a life-threatening cardiac arrest. His willingness to jump in and perform CPR on a patient resulted in a life being saved. The Fire Department is honored to recognize recycling and trash collection relief driver Chris Richardson. Come on up, Chris. Applause On November 15, 2018, Engine 1 and Rescue 1 of the Fayetteville Fire Department were dispatched to a report of an unconscious person in the roadway. While en route, they were also advised she was not breathing. Upon arrival, the firefighters witnessed recycling and trash collection relief driver Chris Richardson performing CPR on the patient. He continued until the fire crews set up their equipment and could take over life-saving procedures. Prior to arrival at the hospital, the patient was revived and survived to be discharged a few days later. The actions taken by Chris to step outside the boundaries of his job were definitely a deciding factor in the successful outcome for this patient. The fire department members that responded that day would like to formally recognize Chris Richardson for his quick actions in realizing the severity of the situation and saving the life with his own hands. Good job, Chris. Well done, Chris. Thank you, Derek. Thanks, Chris. All right. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is a consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 15, 2019 City Council Meeting of Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Northwest Arkansas OPOLLC to rent the patio area adjoining the old post office. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $71,744, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. Number four, a resolution to award RFQ 19-01 and to approve McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated as primary provider and GTS Incorporated as secondary provider of on-call materials testing services as needed through December 31, 2019. Number five, a resolution to award RFQ 19-02 and to approve RFA. McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated is primary provider and Olson Associates Incorporated is secondary provider on-call surveying services needed through December 31st, 2019. Number six, a resolution approved tax order number 12 with Garver LLC in the amount of $30,440 for design, bidding, and service. and construction phase services for the airport, airfield, beacon, and wind cones project to approve the application for the acceptance of 8020 grant from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics in the amount not to exceed $250,000 for approved budget adjustments. Number seven, a resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $15,775.43 to Andy and Jessica Winkman for water damage claim arising at 1027 East Bonney Lane in addition to a previous payment of $2,507.57 to Service Master for Water Damage Mitigation Services. Number eight resolution to authorize the cities continue membership in the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission through 2023 and to approve the payment of membership dues for 2019 in the amount of fifty one thousand five hundred and six dollars and number nine a resolution to express the intention of the City Council of the City of Federal to work jointly and cooperatively with the Federal Public School Board to increase opportunities for active recreation for federal residents. I'm going to entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark? I move that we accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Number one, in order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6472 for approximately 0.42 acres located at 3033 and 3035 West Sanders Street from R.A. Residential Agricultural to R.S. If a residential single family eight units per acre Will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading mark I mean we go to the third and final reading Second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Yes And, Your Honor, it's a rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 18-6472, for approximately 0.42 acres, located at 3033 and 3035 West Sanders Street, from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Your Honor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I don't have anything to add. Does the applicant here, do they have anything they would like to add? my name is tim brazil i'm the applicant on this particular project happy to answer any questions you guys might have but don't have anything further okay what questions do we have for the applicant of the staff from the city council okay what public comment do we have all right seeing that'll bring it back to the council we're on the third and final reading any final comments from the council okay so would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes Yes. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6490 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, and NC neighborhood conservation to RMF 12, residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I move we go to the second reading second motion in a second to go to the second reading yes yes yes yes yes yes And in order to rezone that property, described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6490, for approximately 7.64 acres located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, and NC Neighborhood Conservation to RMF 12, residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. I don't have anything to add unless you want to see the missing presentation from last normally on the second reading. Just to answer questions, if you want to see the presentation, I'd be happy to do it. Let's do that. I'd feel a little better about that because we didn't have a presentation for the public So, Mayor and Council, this is in the center of a large vacant property. It is basically flat. Broyles is on the west, Weddington on the north, 46th Street on the east. And it's surrounded by a variety of zoning, community services, residential office, RSF 18 on the east. And the majority of the site, as you can see, green, is presently zoned NC. The requests go to RMF 12. NC has a density cap of 10 units per acre. The requested zoning has 12 units per acre. So in terms of the density cap, they're fairly similar. The adopted plans, it's... designated city neighborhood area for the small portion on the northwest corner residential neighborhood for the rest of the area as you know any those designations encourage encourage a variety of residential building types and increase density where it's appropriate and it has a specific plan the whitington quarter plan and when you look at the illustrative plan that was uh Completed for this area kind of sketching in what might happen you see a variety of residential building types Requested location so the request is consistent with that it also shows a park a nicely designed park And there's some discussion of whether there's a need for that. I there may be but I don't think it relates to the zoning and um... issues land use compatibility uh... is basically vacant around it and it's compatible with surrounding uh... uh... zoning districts the transition from weddington to the subdivisions to the south and of course the need for the park was an issue with that uh... planning commission and staff do recommend approval and i would be happy to answer any questions No questions, just a reminder that we've got the developer scheduled to come talk to our word for meeting next Monday, and if we can hold it here on the second reading, I'd appreciate it. We'll see what the taste of the council is, but what public comment do we have on this? Keep in mind it'll probably be held for two more weeks. Yes. I'd like to say something really quick. Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet. Mayor, council, I'm in favor of this zoning and I'll tell you why quickly. Number one, it's in my neighborhood, it's within walking distance and I've been known to walk and bike over there. It fits within the character of other nearby references as a good transition zone. Number two, people get upset typically when we increase density out of fears that only that density is being increased, but most of those increases in form zoning aren't actually a density issue, they're rather an implementation issue. As long as we don't continue to build Fort Suburbia out in Westville, it will be fine to match other nearby housing like the Ruppel Row neighborhood, which is, even though it's a PZD, is a similar density. And also, number three, when we rezoned the land for the West Fayetteville solar power plant to help power the water treatment plant, we downzoned RMF 8 to make space for that plant. When I spoke then, you'll remember that I said that we need to upzone a nearby area to make up for that lost density, and this is merely a tradeoff in the local neighborhood area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We'll hold it right here. I don't see any discussion. everybody good all right number three in order to approve vacation 18-64 saving the vacated portion of unbuilt rebecca street right away between benson avenue and sequoia drive i will entertain a motion to go to the second reading son i mean we go to the second reading sir a second step we have a motion in the second we go to the second reading sundry would you please call bro Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And orders approve VAC 18-6470 to vacate a portion of unbuilt Rebecca Street right-of-way between Vincent Avenue and Sequoia Drive. Okay. Garner. Yeah, Mayor, the last time you referred this to the Active Transportation Committee, I They did look at this vacation request on February the 6th, and they did concur with staff and planning commission and recommended that it be vacated. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from Garner? Sonia, what do you have? I don't have any questions. I was on the committee, so I just wanted to say that we found the area to be very steep, so we didn't really feel that it was a good place to... keep so that's what we came across with the very large group of very informed people on the committee okay okay anybody else okay what public comment do we have on this okay and bring it back to the council and so mark I move we spin the rules and go to the next reading second all right we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading son would you please call the roll Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Swaggin? Yes. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. O'Keefe? Yes. Guterres? Yes. And in order to approve VAC 18-6470 to vacate a portion of unbuilt Rebecca Street right-of-way between Vincent Avenue and Sequoia Drive. What comments do we have from the council? Matthew? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Well, with respect to the relevant committees and the staff, I can't support this whole vote against it. I ask you to join me to vote against it as well. I recognize the steepness of the terrain means that it's almost impossible to build anything that would be paved here, and certainly anything for wheeled travel. But I think sometimes it's fair to say that we have a... We're preoccupied with cycling and with automobiles, and the steepness of this actually makes it a very interesting route, potentially for... people who are traveling on foot and we don't have to look very far for examples of Places where the value of preserved right away like this is apparent We're very steep right away where it's only possible to travel by foot is valuable Eureka Springs is filled with tiny passages just like this both in its commercial districts But also up in and around the neighborhoods There are many hill towns all over over the planet, but certainly within the states and definitely within Arkansas that show this. They don't have to be tourist attractions like what you might see in San Francisco. They can be very useful and utilitarian. If you're somebody who lives on this hill or who might live here in the future, there's open and undeveloped land on Mount Sequoia that people have an eye on, if you accept that something is going to happen at some point in the future, and you go look at Rockwood, the same problems exist on Rockwood with respect to topography and to terrain. It's very difficult to retrofit any of the streets on this part of Mount Sequoia. And I would ask that you consider having separate pedestrian right-of-way consider the long-term value of that when Rockwood will always be favored by automobiles. What happens when we connect that all the way over Mount Sequoia? That means it's even harder and unsafe for people to walk on Rockwood than it is today. So I think these side paths for pedestrian walkways are valuable. This has a transportation function. It's just not necessarily what we're used to seeing, and so I won't be able to support the vacation even if we don't have a plan for the land today. Okay. Kyle. I'm going to agree with Matt on that one. From a long-range, very long-range planning perspective, we don't know what may happen in a few decades, what priorities may change. And I think vacating this tonight, because we know we're never going to build a road on it, is... just a little premature because we get if we vacate it tonight we can't ever build anything on it i'd like i like that option i'm looking at it thinking it's not it's been sitting here for decades dedicated anyway and hasn't been a problem so i also notice there's a sewer line running down portions of it there at the end of the street so I'm not sure if that gets in the way of somebody else doing anything with it anyway I just rather hold on to it and see what priorities change one of the other points that was made was that there wasn't really a way after it and before I think we've had some discussion and I feel like there was an a point made that if we could have made it more complete, then that would be more useful. And that's kind of what I'm seeing. It's kind of just stuck in between this space. I feel like, if we wanted to continue it I mean it wouldn't I don't know I just feel like it's not quite in its most useful capacity that it could be um and staying green a green space um I think would be great I understand if we so if we keep it then we would just keep it green and maybe potentially put a road a trail straight up but that's what you guys are suggesting Okay. Mark. I'm going to concur with Council Member Smith and Council Member Petty that it is premature to go ahead and vacate this because there's so much development opportunity around it. So I will be voting against it. Okay. So moved. I'll be voting the same way. We're trying to keep a grid pattern, and every time we ever have a development, somebody always comes up with reasons that they don't have to have a grid pattern there. And starting to take away some of the grid patterns that we already have, kind of give credence to that argument. We may start developing where we don't put in a grid. Okay. Sarah. Sarah. Yes, when we do new construction, when we're doing a new subdivision, we allow sidewalks that maybe don't really connect to anything right now, and I think this is a good opportunity for us to leave this, and at some point in time maybe it becomes a trail or it becomes some, you know, it could connect to something else later on down the road, and there is a lot of land up there still that's not developed. Okay. Teresa. Well, I don't really have much else to add, except it would be nice if it were connected to another network of trails. So I don't see the rush right now. I don't see why we really need to vacate this at this time. Okay. Well, let me ask, is anybody for it? Okay. Well, let's dispense with all this chit-chat here. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Can't hear. No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Okay. All right. Moving along to new business. Number one, in order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 18-6488 for approximately .42 acres located at 825 West Montgomery Street from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Thank you. Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yeah. Mayor and Council, this rezoning request is located at the exit of Fulbright Expressway and School Avenue. There's a narrow frontage road off of School that accesses a subdivision of about 34 homes. All single access and it's at the entrance of that subdivision the surrounding zoning is RSF for There is an industrial operating industrial facility to the south and they have a conditional use permit to use this parcel here as parking lot employee parking lot across the street is c2 And that's the surrounding zoning The entrance that I referred to is a narrow, single-access, open drainage on the west side. The lot is occupied with a stone house that you can see on the right. The neighborhood is largely made up of well-maintained, small single-family houses that are right next door in fact this property line goes something like this so you can see the street this is the house I just referred to the property line is right here and that content contextual single-family homes are all lined up and down that Montgomery Street The adopted plan, it is designated as residential neighborhood, so it's not blue, it's yellow. And I believe that was done in reflection of the fact that that's the use there. It's a pocket of single-family residential. The plan does encourage a variety of residential building types and increase density where appropriate. So I think that is the question on the table today. What increased density and what standards are needed to make it appropriate? Issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission were character of the existing neighborhood, setbacks and uses compared to the built neighborhood. They're all very consistent traditional setbacks issues. The fact that duplexes are allowed as a condition of use in the present zoning, and of course ADUs are allowed by right, and appropriate infill. And a question that I would ask, do we have more precise tools available than the recommendation from the Planning Commission? So the Planning Commission recommended Neighborhood Services General, And staff recommended denial of the original request, which was RMF 6, and recommends denial of this request. If you'll read your packet, you'll notice the applicant said they wanted to build two duplexes, two stories. That's what they wanted to do. If you use, and this is just something for the council to consider, if you use the RFS 8 district, It would allow two duplexes and with a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission where the issues of setback, orientation, and height could all be conditioned. They could do the requested duplex with two stories if the Planning Commission found that to be appropriate. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Is the applicant here for the date? Okay. Mr. Okay, so what questions we have regard Oh Sonya your first. Okay mark There could be duplexes and the current zoning and it would take a variance in order for them to be set back so it would be similar to this and also a variance in order for it to be two stories and The present zoning is RSF4, right? The Planning Commission could grant a conditional use permit for one duplex. RSF4 requires 12,000 square foot, and they have approximately 15,000 square foot. So under the existing zoning, they could do one duplex. I was referring to RSF8, right? which allow smaller lots. If you granted them RSF-8 with a trip to the Planning Commission, they could ask for a conditional use permit for two duplexes, which is what they requested in their application letter. But no one has requested that, the RSF-8. The applicant originally requested RMF-6, And the Planning Commission recommended Neighborhood Services General. The applicant in their letter said they wanted to build two duplexes, not more than two stories. My point is this is a subject that is on virtually every one of your agendas, which is how do we more precisely manage appropriate infill? I just put on the table if you use the tool that is in your toolbox right now, you could zone it RSF8 and the conditional use permit process could be used to determine the number of stories. He said he wanted two and appropriate setbacks. Ideally, we would like zoning by right, but without additional compatibility standards, It's kind of a blunt instrument. I'm just trying to find something that is in your toolbox right now, not a year from now, that might achieve the applicants' goals and ensure that it's developed in a more compatible manner. Okay. Mark, I mean, Sloan. I'm reading through some of these letters, and a lot of the letters reference rezoning But that's not where we're actually looking. Was the neighborhood confused? Am I confused? No, NSG is what you are considering right now. That's what was read. And the reason is NSG, even though that's not what the applicant originally wanted when the Planning Commission recommended it, then the applicant modified their request to make it Neighborhood Services General. So that is what is before the City Council right now. Was it originally NC because that's what all these letters are referencing? No. It was not it was our mf6 originally Members of the public who signed that petition I noticed there are about four written letters suggesting and see I think they were aware of the Great House Park discussion where the neighborhood conservation district plus an overlay district limiting the height to two two stories and was used and I think that's what they were referring to. Would NC satisfy both, I mean, from the look of these letters, the neighborhood and what the applicant ultimately wants to do? You could get there, yes. Okay. We'll probably do a little public comment before we sort of ask you. The reason I said you could get there is NC is also a single family district. And it would also Require a trip to the Planning Commission for a conditional use for that. Okay. Thank you Let's talk on the height issue just a second because I noticed a lot of them letters were talking about single story And I think that's an unreasonably small Restriction that would prevent incremental growth here, but I Under its current, our SF4, the height limit is three, right? Three stories. Three stories. The request in the district is three stories. So left as is, they could end up with a three-story house on that corner? Yes, sir. Okay. And it's the same or greater in all of the various options we've talked about so far? Yes, it is. You've mentioned duplex with a conditional use permit. Yes. Would a three or four plex also be available? That one just kind of trying to wrap my head around the options of what they could go and ask for conditional use on. In the NC, yes. In the RSF, eight, no. And last one, what was some of the reasoning against the original RMF6 request? Because wasn't staff opposed to that? Staff was concerned about... compatibility issues the fact that two three-story duplexes could kind of overshadow particularly the house immediately yeah to the west but the art or MF the multifamily would be would allow things beyond duplex right yes yes it would and that would I guess that one has a substantially different footprint It would allow single-family duplex, triplex, fourplex, but it also has a cap, a density cap. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Max. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Garner, when you mentioned compatibility issues in RMF6, you followed that up by saying concerns about overshadowing. Is that the extent of your compatibility concerns, just massing and architectural compatibility? Yes. I'm looking at the building that the house that is immediately to the west How that building is placed on the lot which is set back where the parking is located in front of it Wouldn't like that The the parking here is in front of it, but there are other options to develop this corner lot with 15,000 square feet without putting a parking lot in the front. So in terms of... I just want to make sure I understood what you were saying. In terms of compatibility issues, you were just talking about the relative height of the buildings. You weren't talking about other... I was talking about orientation and where the parking's located also. Okay. Thank you. So it seems to me, I mean... There's another tool in the toolbox, and a smart developer might memorialize what they stated in their cover letter and bring us a bill of assurance that says what they already said in a way that we can rely on. It seems very quick. The solution before us is 100 days worth of application and review time, not counting engineering and design time. That's 60 days or more for rezoning and 45 days or more for a conditional use permit. That's... I mean, if an applicant wants to do that, I mean, I don't know, bless their hearts. But that can't be our solution for something like this every time something comes forward, right? And a bill of assurance can't be that solution either. So I appreciate that there might be something we can do today. I'm hoping this year we can actually have some dedicated time to these kinds of conversations because it's not right, at least I think most of us feel that it's not right, that as soon as you put two kitchens into a unit, suddenly two stories matters more than three stories. And that's really what's happening here. As we started talking about duplexes and now we've got to talk about height and it just becomes this big tangle. And it's not good for anybody, the applicant or the people who need housing or for our own staff. In any case, I'm inclined to support the rezoning that's there today because I look around and I went down there and I don't really see it being a problem. I don't expect the rest of the council necessarily agrees with that. A smart developer would just memorialize what they already wrote. There's one point I might make. I believe if the applicant agreed to NC or RSF 8, you could approve it with this application. I defer to Mr. Williams. It's advertised for a more intense district. If the applicant agreed to a lower district, the council could approve it with this application, correct? The City Council has a lot of discretion in rezoning decisions. You don't have to just either choose to say yes or no, just like the Planning Commission did. You can certainly choose what you believe is the proper zoning, viewing the neighborhood and compatibility and everything else, city policies. You can use the same zoning considerations you use for any zoning and determine what the proper zoning is. You're not bound by the request or you're not bound by the recommendation of either the planning staff or planning commission. You all are the ultimate policymakers, and so you can decide what is the best zoning. And you can also decide not to do anything. So, I mean, you have many, many options. Okay. I was able to go out there today and get a closer look, and it is the entrance to the whole entire neighborhood. I did hear from the neighbors that, And I'm glad you pointed out those things, Kit, because I didn't quite understand if I needed yes or no or how do we go forward with it. But I think ideally, to try to find some compromise, my neighbors are mostly concerned that they don't want a large building right there. But it is a big piece of property, and I could see two duplexes. So if we wanted to add some density but not height, I don't know what that zoning would require. But I think that potentially could go well there. I do see that the house is very old, and I don't think it's probably going to be very expensive to repair it. It is against that parking lot, and it isn't beautiful. So I think a single family home wouldn't be awesome there. I don't know that people want to buy a house next to a big parking lot. So I think two duplexes could help find a space between the owner and the residents that looks like a house that's single story. So that's kind of what I see there. And it's important because it's the entrance to the neighborhood and the neighbors want it to look like their houses too. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have? My name is Teresa Youngblood and I live at 40 West Greenwood Street. And I'd like to urge you to not vote for this as written with the NSG rezoning policy. And it's been so interesting to hear y'all talk about the ins and outs of this because a lot of this didn't come up at the planning meeting. So I'm getting some new information as I'm hearing it. What my understanding is, as the NSG, Neighborhood Services General, is that if y'all vote for this, the developer could put a business right at the welcome mat of our neighborhood. They could put a laundromat there. They could put a pawn shop there. And in our little 31-house neighborhood, that business would not be serving us. That would be serving the commercial corridor of 71. And the businesses that surround us on 71 are a pawn shop, lots of bail bondsmen, a bulk mail shop, and a couple mechanics, stuff that just makes inviting that whole clientele Into the neighborhood a little problematic. So what you have before you came up in the weirdest way at the planning commission, and I wanted to give you a little bit of that background to the developer came asking for residential multifamily six and the neighbors and I had a chance to research that educate ourselves a little bit about it and we came prepared to speak to that. The council took public comment on that. And then there was this switcheroo where one of the council members suggested this NSG policy The folks sitting up here were unfamiliar with it. They had to look it up on their computer on the spot. They didn't retake public comment. They didn't table it. So the neighbors actually never had a chance to speak to this. So what you have in front of you is something that was one commissioner's idea that the rest of them voted on unanimously that was never given the benefit of vetting or public comment. So I think you use the phrase. It was a blunt tool. That's exactly how the neighbors view this. I didn't know about the residential single family aid as an option. That sounds like something I would love to talk with my neighbors about because one or two duplexes at the end seemed to fit the character of our neighborhood really well, and we'd be super happy to invite some more density in there. We have a great multi-generational group right now, older folks walking dogs, people with little kids out there with wagons. What we're looking for is to maintain the integrity of the character of our neighborhood as a neighborhood, not to invite this transitional property, which is what the commissioners said they were looking for, to invite the commercialism of South 71 into our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. I should have explained the... Rules on public comment. Everybody gets five minutes. One, turn at the microphone. Introduce yourself. Keep your comments to me. Don't engage council member or anybody in the public. You can get more time if the council makes a motion in a second, and the majority of the council votes to give you more time. Okay. Sorry I didn't do that. Who would like to address us next? Okay. All right. We'll bring it back to the council. Sun. Sun. I would like to hold this for the next meeting. I know Sarah Marsh is not here, and also I think it will give a chance for Teresa to take back her thoughts and the things that were discussed here back to the neighbors to chat about it. So I would love to give her more time and hold this to the next meeting. Mark. I concur with Council Member Gutierrez that we should hold this. Okay, so you just want to leave it on first reading? I mean, just leave it where it is. Okay, end of the discussion. All right, we'll hold this for two weeks. All right, number two, an ordinance to amend 161.20 district... R. O. Residential office 161.21 district C. One neighborhood commercial 161.23 district C. Two third Fair commercial 161.25 district C. Three Central commercial and 166.24 non-residential design standards of the fifth unified development code to provide a form-based development options for districts R. O. C. One C. Two and C. Three This is a pretty simple change, but it's going to require a lot of reading. Whereas the Fayetteville Planning Commission has recommended amendments to the Unified Development Code that allow developers to have the option to develop whether either conventional or urban form-based patterns within RO, C1, C2, and C3 districts. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend subsection a purpose of sections 161 20 161 21 161 23 and 161 25 by adding a new sentence to the end of subsection a and all four sections as follows quote the intent of this district is to allow administrative approval if the developer decides to use urban form in compliance with the build-to-zone and minimum buildable street frontage as specified herein. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby amends Section 161.20 District R.O. Residential Office by adding the following new urban form setback regulations to the end of Subsection E. Quote, urban form setback regulations front. A bill two zone that is located between the front property line and line 25 feet from the front property line. Side five feet. Side zero lot line. A setback of less than five feet is permitted on one interior side provided a maintenance agreement is filed. Remaining side setback shall be 10 feet. Rear none. Rear when contiguous to a single family district 15 feet. Section three. at the city council the city of favela arkansas hereby amend section 16120 district ro residential office by adding a new subsection h as follows urban form minimum builder buildable street frontage fifty percent of the lot width unquote section four That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 161.21, District C-1 Neighborhood Commercial, by adding the following new urban form setback regulations to the end of Subsection E, Front, a Bill 2 zone that is located between 10 feet and a line 25 feet from the front property line, Side and rear none side or rear when contiguous to a single-family residential district 15 feet section 5 the City Council city of favor arcs are hereby men section 161 to 1 District C 1 neighborhood commercial by adding a new subsection H as follows urban form minimum building buildable street front each 50% of the lot width section 6 and at the city council of the city of favorable arcs are by men's section 16123 district c2 thoroughfare commercial by adding the following new urban form setback regulations to the end of subsection e front a build two zone that is located between 10 feet and a line 25 feet from the front property line side and rear none side or rear when contiguous to a single family district 15 feet 7 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16123, District C-2, thoroughfare commercial by adding a new subsection H as follows. Urban form, minimum buildable street frontage, 50% of the lot width. Section 8. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16125, District C-3, central commercial by adding the following new urban form setback regulations to the end of subsection E. Section 8. Front, a build-to zone that is located between the front property line and a line 25 feet from the front property line. Side, none. Rear, 5 feet. Rear from center line of an alley, 12 feet. Section 9, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 16125, District C3, Central Commercial, by adding a new subsection G as follows, urban form, minimum buildable street frontage, 80% of the lot widths. Section 10, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Subsection A, Purpose and Applicability in Section 166.24, Non-Residential Design Standards, and enacts a new Subsection A and B as follows. Purpose, A, Purpose. It is the intent of these standards to provide the methods and means by which designers and developers may achieve the City's adopted goals, produce quality development, and to manage growth within the City of Fayetteville. These regulations complement the city's urban zoning districts and those districts that allow development in urban form, with site and architectural design regulations to produce a visually interesting and high-quality development that responds to the needs of pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicular traffic. So Section B, applicability. These design standards shall apply to all non-residential development located in urban or form-based zoning districts that require a build-to zone. as well as non-residential development and conventional districts when built in an urban form, allowing the administrative approval with the exception of those districts located within the downtown master plan boundary. In addition to the city's commercial design development standards, the standards may apply when either new development occurs or the expansion of 25% or more of the existing non-residential building square footage occurs. All sides of a building that are visible from the public right-of-way shall be subject to design review, unquote. Okay. Carter. Yeah, Mayor. Kit's very thorough reading of the ordinance. Let me see if I can put it in two sentences. Okay. If you pass this code change, it would allow administrative approval if the developer chooses the form-based option, and the advantages are that it provides an incentive to build form-based, which is consistent with our city plan goals, and it's a step towards implementing lean government principles of making the development review process quicker and less onerous. This was initiated by our planning commission, so it's their application, and Matt Hoffman and Matt Johnson from the planning commission are here, and I believe they want to address you. Thank you. Thank you, Garner. Matt Hoffman, I chair the Planning Commission. Mayor, council members, it's an honor to be with you here this evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. Kit, thank you for reading the ordinance. That's quite a mouthful. So let me back up a little bit. I want to tell you a little bit about sort of why we're here, how we got to this point, because it's sort of nontraditional. Thank you. A little over a year ago, the Planning Commission held what was, for me, the first Planning Commission weekend retreat. It was the first time that I'm aware of that commissioners sort of had the opportunity to have a less formal conversation about future long-range planning priorities sort of outside of the development review process. Out of that meeting, we got several priorities for discussion topics. We decided to form the Long-Range Planning Subcommittee as a way to explore those topics and ultimately come up with recommendations for you all, which is what we're looking at tonight. This is one of many topics that we've been exploring over the last year or so. It's been a very productive year. Not everything is ready for prime time, but we felt like this was something good to move forward. Hopefully it's fairly straightforward and we really look forward to hearing your feedback on it. I wanna introduce Commissioner Johnson. He has been chairing the subcommittee and put a lot of great work and effort into actually writing the ordinance that you're reviewing tonight. So Commissioner Johnson. Matt Johnson member of the Fayetteville City Planning Commission Thank You mr. Mayor and City Council and Thank You mr. Williams I did not realize you had to read all of that out tonight so my apologies it's a wonderful time I enjoy it you know when we look at meeting the city's goals and finding maybe gaps in our current code that may create an impediment impediments or you know holdups for developers to seek out traditional town form. We saw this as an easy win. And so as we look at new developments such as Daisy Exchange and the new Manna Clinic at the corner of Sycamore and College, those both developments had to come to the city planning commission to get permission for variants to build in the manner that they did. As a commission, we felt that that development is right in line with our city goals. And so to see developers have to take extra steps to meet our city goals is something that we wanted to try and approach and find a good solution. And so I don't think it could be summed up better than how Garner put it. What this allows is if a developer chooses to build a commercial building, In our conventional commercial districts in a manner that is of urban form and is in the built to zone with the minimal buildable street frontage. they would be allowed to bypass the LSD process through administrative approval through city staff. And so we think that this is a great win for us as a planning commission, us as a city, and to allow, as Garner put it, for the city to operate in a leaner way for commercial development. And if you have any other questions, I'll be right here. Thanks. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have? Peter Tonneson from Ward 3. I don't see in the proposal what acreage or what percentage of the city would be covered by this change. And I understand in one sense it's voluntary, but it's voluntary if you want to win the support of the planning people. And it's voluntary for the developer, but it's still going to affect all the citizens around the development area. RO and the C123 were transitional kinds of zones between the pure residential, the RSF4 that I live in, that everybody on the planning commission and the city council seems to hate, and commercial areas or urban areas. So there's one example. Here's some articles. I did some research on. Here's an article addressing form-based code misconceptions and common mistakes. It's from the May 2013 issue of Zoning Practice. He says, the primary intent of form-based coding is to effectively regulate walkable urban areas. When you try to use them to regulate drivable suburban areas, this will compromise the clarity and effectiveness of the code. This means that in a citywide application, you will typically have a form-based system in place to regulate walkable urban or desirable urban areas and a refined Euclidean system to regulate drivable suburban areas effectively. In essence, this is the key to an effective hybrid code. And in fact, in Springdale two years ago, when they adopted form-based zoning, they limited it. to between Thompson and Crossover and just the downtown area of Springdale. They didn't spread it out over the entirety of that jurisdiction. So I would, I've also got a great article written by a professor of law, Cleveland Marshall School of Law, Lolita Innes. She's got a master's in law and she talks a lot about form-based zoning and the, She has a critique of it, not necessarily a criticism, but one of them, she says, is finally is the Charette process. That's the process which relies on the community in order to sort of pull together form-based code plans. All too often it doesn't work out as claimed. All too often form-based code plans end up representing the elites who put them together, who bring in the experts, who all too often monopolize the talk that's going on. And it's a wonderful way for a very, very small strand of people in the community to have their views represented as, quote, what everybody wants, unquote. All too often, that's simply not the case. And she talks about it at greater length, but I want to watch my time here I with the mayor's permission I'd leave a copy of this with miss Smith So she can now it's got my notes on it, but it's an excellent article It reviews actually the evolution of cities and then the Euclid case the 1926 zoning case And then she talks about form based zoning. Why do I say this because as she says I? Not everybody wants to live in a walkable community. Many of us came to Fayetteville as a city that was centered on a university in a downtown, but also surrounded by many RSF4s. We wanted to live in RSF4. We didn't want to have to walk every day or every other day to get our groceries or do our shopping there. And I think that's our right as citizens and taxpayers. And I think what I'm mostly here to ask is not to argue the merits of an urban environment versus a non-urban environment. I ride my bicycle 60 miles a week when the weather permits. It shouldn't be forced on us by the government. And I think a decision as sweeping as this, in other words, what's becoming a universal application of an urban regime, should be made by all the citizens and taxpayers of the city, not just me, not just 20 members of the Planning Commission and the City Council. In fact, I was a little heartened two weeks ago. I listened on video, and two of the City Council members actually asked for more notice on two individual cases. Now, they were steamrolled, but at least they had that sense of, of wanting notice to the public and allowing the public to be heard. And in fact, if I'm the only person from the public who speaks up tonight, that should say that there should be broad notice about this and maybe three or six months of serious discussion. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Will Dockery 4149 West Bradford Street. This is a good thing. I think it's a step in the right direction for our fair city and I ask you to pass it. It also ties into what I previously spoke to earlier tonight about the rezoning of West Weddington. And as you will notice, there is a lot of RO and commercial around that property. This is a win-win and it helps our citizens and developers alike. Furthermore, this ordinance helps us trend towards form-based development focused on human scale, not car scale, and historical healthy town growth patterns. that allow us sustainable tax growth, that we are actually able to pay for the things that we build later on. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, bringing it back to the council. Tom. I'd like to thank Matt Hoffman and Matt Johnson for coming and presenting. I think this is a good thing. I know somebody presented a concern that somehow – We're going to reduce people's ability to drive. I don't see that adding the ability to walk and bike. Never will take away from the ability to drive. Actually moving people onto the trails and sidewalks would actually make it easier to drive around. I don't believe this will change any of the uses, and I think it's pretty kind of straightforward. I know that people keep talking about developers, and they kind of lump them into one category. I don't think developers need to be in one category. There's big developers and then there's local developers. The big developers have no problem spending six months, nine months, and going through the LSD process. This is going to help predominantly the smaller developers, the ones that don't want to go through that or can't afford to go through that LSD process. So I think this would allow more local developers, people that actually live here, to build, and I think that's a good thing. Thank you. Okay. Tracee. I'd like to see if we could hold this on the first reading because this is a significant change, and I'd also like to see what Springdale has done and maybe review some of the documents that one of the residents provided. So I think this might be a big change, but maybe not so. So just a little bit more investigation, I think, would be maybe useful, and then also for the public maybe to... Become engaged if they if they so choose to thank you All right Number three, in order to sway the requirements for a competitor being approved, the purchase of a main body cylinder from HEM Service Company Incorporated in the amount of $26,643 plus taxes for installation in the recycling and trash collection division's materials recovery facility baling machine and to approve a project in tenancy in the amount of $2,664.30. Ketton. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Let me read the ordinance. Oh, I'm sorry. You're ready to go, Jeff. Let me read this. Okay. Whereas the City Recycling and Trash Collection Division uses a baling machine to process recyclable materials, and whereas the main body cylinder, which is critical to the operation of the baler, is leaking and a temporary welding solution has begun to fail... meaning the cylinder should be replaced as quickly as possible. And whereas the mailing machine manufacturer has recommended three vendors who could provide a replacement, and HEM Service Company Incorporated is the only vendor that can provide the cylinder immediately, while the other two have lead times of up to six weeks. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Warkstown, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding, and approves the purchase of a new main body cylinder from HEM Service Company, Incorporated, in the amount of $26,643 plus applicable taxes for installation in the Recycling and Trash Collection Division's Material Recovery Facility bailing machine, that's a mouthful, and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $2,664.30. I apologize for that jumping ahead there. But essentially, I can say more if I need to say more. Kit has just described essentially what we were faced with, which was catastrophic failure of the main body cylinder in the material recovery facility, which is the heart of that machine. It's not typically considered a wear part. But we have discovered a leak, had taken some actions to try and stop that leak with some high-tech welding, interrupting those fissures, which were not even visible with naked eye. But eventually it became such that we – actually became hazardous. Yes. Operating at 3,000 PSI, that machine compresses and bails our recyclables and expels them. So we reached the point of, again, catastrophic failure. We were going through gallons, tens of gallons of hydraulic fluid daily. The recyclables don't ever stop coming in. So we were faced with sourcing, finding sourcing and procuring as quickly as possible to get that installed. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Jeff? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Second. Would you please call the roll? I think I did. I've got to push the button. Okay, there we go. Everything's good. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And your order is to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of a main body cylinder from HEM Service Company Incorporated in the amount of $26,643 plus applicable taxes for the installation in the Recycling and Trash Collection Division's Material Recovery Facility Bailing Machine and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,664.30. Yes. Okay. Mark? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator Bruce Caldwell. Kenyon? Yes. Kennedy? Yes. Logan? Yes. Funch? Yes. Tartt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Tarrant? Yes. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of a main body cylinder from HEM Service Company, Inc., in the amount of $26,643 plus applicable taxes, for installation in the Recycling and Trash Collection Division's material recovery facility bailing machine, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,664.30. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have two or three. The city's announcing an emergency appeal for blood donors tomorrow at the downtown square. We'll be having blood taken between the hours of 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. So if you can give blood, please go on and out tomorrow at the square. Also tomorrow we have the hands-on invasive species removal workshop at Veterans Park at Lake Fayetteville. And that will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. A way to come learn about removing species and helping us remove some at the same time. And finally, we have... free smart cycling classes for adults. The first one was held last weekend, but we have another one in March and two more in April and two in June, so I encourage you to look at the details on the city's website for cycling classes. That would be all. Okay. Anything else? I will be off to Municipal League tomorrow for... Wednesday afternoon, come back early Thursday morning. We'll be discussing a little of the legislation and legislators are working on some points to make. Anything else? I should note, I did let you know that we did file a petition for rehearing. I have not seen a response yet from the Attorney General, but of course they have a little more time than this to do that, nor have I seen anything from the court yet. But it's very rare that one of these will be, Approved, but I think we have actually pretty good grounds for that. I think maybe They didn't understand exactly what all the procedural Situation was about this so it's waiting to hear their response Okay anything else all right, thank you all we're adjourned