I would like to call the City Council meeting of February the 16th, 2016 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray, here. Marsh, here. Kenyon, here. Petty, Tenet, here. Schottmeyer, here. Lateur, present. Long, here. Mayor Jordan, here. To join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands,
 Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 2nd, 2016 City Council meeting minutes. Number two...
 Resolution to approve an amendment to number three to the contract Mitchell Williams, Sealy Gates and Woodyard PLLC in the amount of $25,000 for additional legal services related to the White River water quality standards petition to the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission.
 Commission and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept consent agenda as read. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, under unfinished business we have none tonight. Next order of business is a public hearing. Number one.
 A resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure and cleanup of unsanitary and unsightly conditions on property owned by U.S. Bank National Association located at 550 West Skelton Street in the city of Federal Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment. I will open up the public comment. Yes. I was just presenting not public comment, sir.
 Go forward with your staff report first. Yes, sir. David Carver with the City of Fayetteville Code Compliance Division. We're requesting a budget adjustment in the amount of $14,500 for a raisin removal as well as a large-scale cleanup at the property located at 550 West Skelton. Okay. What questions do we have for David? Have we contacted—excuse me, I'm getting better. Have we contacted the landowner?
 Yes, sir. We have gone through our notification process. Both notifications were sent via certified mail and did come back signed. And when you tried to call, did you speak with someone or left a voice message? No, sir. We don't communicate via phone. It is strictly certified mail. So certified mail and you got your receipt back so you know they got it. Yes, sir. But you haven't talked to anybody. No, sir. We have had no correspondence from the bank.
 Just for the benefit of the public that's here, what happens in a raising project? We go in and we tear down and clean up, and we keep track of our time and our expenses, and we send a bill to the landowner? The project as a whole is bidded out citywide. Clearly, we take the winning bid. So, yes, we would go in, clean everything up per the standards of our building safety demolition requirements, at which point.
 we would place a lien on the property for the amount of the project. Okay. And how do we determine which property we're going to do this to? Our code compliance division is, for the most part, complaint-driven. So we have had a very long history of service requests or complaint history on this property from...
 Citizens across the city, but mainly in that neighborhood. To my knowledge, the service request history goes back as far as 2010 for the property in its current condition. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, can I ask a couple questions? Sure. I know that you provided the city council with many pictures showing the structure falling down.
 Obviously unsafe, lots of trash around the area, but did the building inspector, the building safety officer, look at this structure? Yes, sir. We send what we call an unsafe building determination to building safety. Our chief building official, along with his staff, inspect the property, and they will give us their recommendation. And what do they recommend in this case? For the raising and removal.
 Because they thought it was an unsafe structure as these pictures clearly show that you've shown the city. Yes, sir It's okay. We need to always lay a firm base So I know the City Council some of them were at the agenda session and heard you but not all of them were there And for the citizens out there They also know you know that it's not just complaint driven But in fact we go out and inspect this the pictures you have shown in the packet show this structure falling down No walls roof coming down obviously very dilapidated
 And so you need to make sure and present all that kind of information when you come here and present as a staff member to show why, in fact, this structure needs to be raised and removed. Yes, sir. And we do have the unsafe building determination is included in that package. Okay. Thank you. Well, Mr. Mayor, I'm very relieved to know that they can't come knock down my house because they don't like my politics. My house has to be unsafe, right? Yes, sir. Good. Thank you, John. Sure. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
 I've received a number of complaints over the years about this property, and if you would look in the packet, you would see that the house really is falling down. Neighbors are concerned about safety. They're concerned about pollution from a number of barrels that are oozing things into the woods, as well as just an unsafe condition that could harbor vermin and mold.
 It's a bad situation. So thank you so much for your work to get this torn down. This has been going on for at least the three years I've been in office. But I know we had some challenges with this one because it was in bankruptcy. So thank you and to our assistant attorney, Blake Pennington, for his diligence in tracking down the owner. Okay. Is the owner here? I don't believe so. Okay. All right. Any other questions for David? No, but we need to now open it up. Yeah. Okay.
 So now we'll close the... No, just open it for public comment. Oh, well, yeah, I'm going to do that. So the owner's not here. So, all right, now we'll take public comments. Anyone from the public like to address us on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Uh-huh. Oh, ma'am, did you want to say something? Oh, I saw you get up. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. I'd like to open up another public hearing, a resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure owned by Aaron Kendall Kirk and John Paul Carey, located at 1180 East Huntsville Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment.
 David. Thank you, Mayor. This is a more routine raise and removal for us, a single-family home that's quite dilapidated. We have had very good correspondence with the owners correcting several code violations in the past. I believe they are here, and good faith that, you know, there's a good chance that we won't actually be raise and removing this ourselves and that the property owner will be able to handle the situation. I believe she had some... I can't hear you.
 Speak more into the microphone so she can hear you. Speak loud and clear. Yes, sir. I was just saying, we've had a very good working relationship with the property owner in the past, correcting various code violations previous to the raisin removal. However, the timeline for the raisin removal has expired, so we are bringing it to council to request a budget adjustment, I believe, of $4,100. Okay. Do we have any questions for staff and council? Is the owner here? Yes.
 are you the owner ma'am yeah if you're the owner i'm the new owner okeydoke okay little work short i'm i'm the new owner of that property and i i had heard prior to tonight your name please oh beverly kirk okay and i had heard prior to tonight that um they were considering this an unsafe building etc and um
 But I've never received any notices myself, and when I tried to call, they couldn't talk to me because I wasn't an owner at that time. The property is now in my name, and I am going to take care of that building. But an attorney told me yesterday, because I'm the new owner, that I should be afforded the same consideration twice.
 any other property owner in terms of the timeline and so forth. I have every intention, serious intention of disassembling that building and taking care of it in the, once I start receiving notices, I know what the timelines are. I don't know what the timelines are. Okay. And the only reason I even knew about this meeting tonight is because the old owner, John Keery,
 notified me, and I drove from Iowa in a blizzard on Sunday to get here. And, of course, everything was closed. All the county offices were closed yesterday. And so I was in a county office from 9 a.m. until 4.30 this afternoon all day trying to find out what the problems were with the boundary. There's some other things that are not an issue here tonight. Right.
 But anyway, the property is now in my name, and I would just like the time afforded everyone else to deal with the matter. And I have spoken with Mr. Carver on the phone once, and he was very kind and everything. But you were supposed to call me and let me know about this meeting. You said you would. But I didn't. So I didn't know about it until just a few days ago. I apologize for that.
 I apologize for that. That's all right. Mr. Mayor, can I ask her a couple questions? You sure can. Are you related to Aaron Kendallkirk? He was my son. He passed away. I'm sorry to hear that. He was at that point, I guess, the owner and that's how you became a part owner? I'm sorry, I can't hear you. I say he was listed here in the raise and removal as one of the co-owners. Yes. And that's how you became an owner?
 Or did you buy it? More or less. Okay. I had to buy out John Kerry. And when was that that you actually purchased the property? Yesterday. Oh, yesterday. Okay. That's all the questions I have for you. Okay. I would have done it, we would have done it sooner, but I'll tell you the hardest thing any parent ever has to do is to bury a child. Yes. It's been very difficult for me to just...
 get my ducks in order and deal with it. It really has been. And so, but I have got someone that's going to work on the property. He's already done some work on the property for me, even though I didn't own it yet. And that's what I'm going to continue to do. Okay. All right. David, I have a question for you. If an owner is making a good faith effort to...
 restore the building or repair it there's certainly surely a certain amount of time you will give them to bring it we are always flexible to work with the citizens uh can you go to the podium and answer the question yes sir we're always willing to work with the citizens as long as we're going towards the same goal we're very flexible you know it's we're here to help them regardless of what situations might be surrounding the current situation um
 however as far as our procedural matter i understand if there if there is a change of ownership we're basically back to square one as of the 27th of last month it was still showing aaron and john as the owners john kerry signed for the notification uh the first of this month so
 If there's a change of ownership, then we would just start over with our entire— Mr. Mayor, let me make a suggestion. I think that she's certainly entitled to due process, which means a right to be heard. She has been heard, but I think we should table this for a month and put it on the very first thing in new business in case there's something that might be longer after it
 So to give her some opportunity to work with our city staff and to get maybe some underway, something underway on the demolition or repair of the structure. Obviously even after we have passed a raise and removal oftentimes the owner goes ahead and does what needs to be done and we never have to go through with that.
 But rather than passing this raise and removal tonight, let's table it for a month so that they can work together and maybe we can get this resolved and we never have to pass it at all. I mean, we table this for one month. Second. Okay. Well, I just have one quick question. So if we do that, which I agree, then city staff before 30 days could...
 If there's a good faith effort and the city staff is comfortable with that, then they can remove that from ever going. That's right. Is that correct? Well, it'll probably come back to us and it'll just report to us that it should be dismissed. Okay. Then, yeah. Mayor, if I could make a comment, not to be contrary to our city attorney's advice, but
 Our protocol is to serve the owner of record. In order to be consistent with what we do, I would rather you table it and let us go through the process directly with the new owner. Then if it gets resolved, we don't have to have it at any meeting. If it doesn't get resolved, then we'll bring it back with the proper notice to the new owner of record, which just changed yesterday. I'd like for you to table it indefinitely and us to bring it back. I would like to amend my motion to table indefinitely.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to table this item indefinitely. All right. That way we'll stay consistent with our processes. Any final comments? Oh, is there any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmars. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you all.
 So what just happened? I'm sorry. I'm gonna start working with you to get the the property brought up to code and everything It'll be okay. Just continue to work on it and work with the staff and we'll get you through this And please let the staff know what your address is your contact information so they can get a hold of you. Okay, very good Thank you so much. Okay under new business. I
 Number one, a resolution to approve task order number four with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $79,500 for continued native vegetation establishment efforts and minor adjustments to the existing restoration areas to enhance stream channel stability. Chris, I believe you have this. Yes, thank you, Mayor. The city, in cooperation with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center, we've had a partnership for several years.
 and have developed several stream restoration projects, including the White River on the water and sewer property, Neocoska Creek in Sweetbriar Park and Neocoska in Gully Park, and most recently the West Fork of the White River near the airport.
 As part of that, those projects, there is a growing in period and a maintenance period that is necessary to establish the riparian zone, get the native vegetation growing. That's a big part of the stream restoration project, to protect the stream over a long period of time. Also, minor adjustments are typically needed.
 on the project as flood events occur, especially when ones occur before the stream is fully grown in. And the bulk of this item that's in front of you is related to that. The airport stream restoration had some damage in
 Due to flooding last year and so the bulk of the cost of this item is related to that so this maintenance of These projects helps protect the investment made by the city in these stream restoration projects to protect water quality habitat and recreational values so This is an important part of the stream restoration project to continue the maintenance make sure we don't lose our investment and
 The stormwater quality management project is the main funding source for this through the engineering division $65,500 I mentioned the water and sewer project is on water and sewer property They are contributing $14,000 for a total of seventy nine thousand five hundred dollars for this year's maintenance activities. I'll answer any questions We have yes
 Chris, thank you for your email back. I know I reached out to you earlier this week. I had a constituent with some specific concerns related to complaints through the AEDQ. Could you just talk a little bit about those complaints and what we've done to rectify those? Sure. It's sort of unrelated to this item, but we did have a complaint related to our Ruppel Road project.
 Some off-site tracking due to the wet roads in the construction area and mud being tracked onto existing Ruppel Road. We have talked to the contractor about that and given them specific items to correct, most of which they have corrected.
 Essentially upgraded the construction entrances, put some clean rock out there so the trucks that go across the clean rock will knock the dirt off of those trucks. So that's really the main BMP that's necessary for that tracking issue.
 Contractors also have been using sweepers to clean up, which is not really what we want them to do. We don't want the dirt to get on there in the first place.
 But they have been upgrading those items and taking care of those things. And it's a continuous process that we'll continue to work with them on. We also had the water and sewer department was accessing the site for a few days. They're not doing that anymore. They were dumping some material on the site, on the contractor worksite. And just to clarify again, that is a city contractor that we have. It's not city staff.
 constructing the work. Thank you, Chris. Yes, John. Chris, it helped Joe and Jane's citizen understand. I mean, if we go and buy a set of tires from Sam's Club or, you know, buy a hamburger from Whataburger, we kind of know what we're getting for our money. But for $17,500 of stream restoration, that's
 It's kind of hard for me to get my brain around exactly what that looks like. So help us understand what we're getting for our almost $100,000. Okay, and it's on an as-needed basis. So many of the items that are included in this will be as required. One of the things is watering the plants that have been placed
 as part of these stream restoration projects. So if we get enough rain, then we wouldn't need to water them. But basically, these stream restoration projects are a natural stream restoration, so it looks like a natural stream. There's generally no concrete involved, nothing like that. So it's kind of helping the stream heal itself.
 Those types of restorations, especially before the vegetation gets fully grown in, that's an integral part of maintaining the riparian area. Before that vegetation grows in,
 Flood events can damage, blow out the structure, some of the rock that may be placed, etc. And so this is to help pay to put that back and put it back the way it was originally intended. And again, as the vegetation grows in, the cost of maintenance will go down to the point where essentially you would not have to maintain after a period of years after it's fully established.
 Just roughly speaking, what percentage of the $79,500 do you think is going to go for salaries and wages, like manpower or women power or person power, to be correct? I'm not sure if I have that information. We do have a representative of the Watershed Conservation Resource Center here. Matt, can you answer that item? Good evening. Matt Van Epps with Watershed Conservation. I'm the associate director there. We're a nonprofit organization located in Fayetteville.
 To answer your question, almost all of that money... Well, let me take a step back. We received a task order approval last year to conduct this same type of maintenance. What is a passport approval? Task order. Task order. I'm sorry. Exactly what you're looking at now. This is task order number four. Staff order. Thank you. Task order, yes. And so last year, we were...
 given approval for $62,500, I believe was the total amount. Of that total amount, we spent approximately $29,000. Of that $29,000, a majority of that went into labor and oversight costs. And that is billed out with a detailed itemized report that says X number of hours for labor, X number of hours for oversight. This particular task order
 includes carryover of the money that was left over from last year in addition to what we would normally require to do this maintenance work. Of this task order, $79,000, a considerable amount is actually going into the repair work as Chris was talking about. We had this project on the West Fork of the White River. We are cobbling together, I mean,
 The amount of money that's in this task order is a portion of what it's going to take to do the work that's out there. What does the work look like? Do you have people waiting along the stream and planting little sprigots in the bank? What does it look like? For the riparian management activities, as an example, and prior to the task order we received last year, which was fantastic, and we really appreciate that support.
 We have, in partnership with the city, put together grant applications to do these green infrastructure projects. Our first one was in 2008. Prior to last year, our organization took on the burden of maintaining these projects, which are essentially part of the city's infrastructure as far as maintaining natural aesthetics that complement, say, Sweetbriar Park or Gully Park.
 So we had taken on that burden for several years. We made the request, talked to engineering, and got that task order, which allowed us to start doing the things that we had been doing unfunded. So to answer your question, as far as what goes on on the ground, an example at Neocosco Creek at Sweetbriar Park would be
 We go out, we look at invasive plants, we remove invasive plants from the stream corridor, we replace those plants with native plant species, we ensure that to the best that we can, sometimes beavers have a different agenda than we do, that those plants survive, and we really are trying to increase the diversity and the quality of the riparian habitat. Now that's
 you know the cornerstone of these stream restoration projects are establishing a healthy riparian area when you have floods like we had at the end of december that is a different story that is an effect of high flows
 creating damage to our project, structural damage. So what we're going to be doing with a portion of this funding is matching it with contributions from other project partners, including ourselves. In fact, we are going to be bringing $60,000 of our own money to the table to protect this investment that we've all made. I've got a lot invested personally just in terms of the time.
 But that would be physical track hoe, rocks, boulders, trees, logs, and plants that were washed out. How do you move a boulder? Do you bring in a backhoe or track hoe? We use, for us, a medium-sized excavator, a 50,000-pound excavator with an articulating thumb on the boom that allows us to pick the boulder up and put it where we want it. What percentage of our operating budget on an annual basis comes from the city of Fayetteville?
 20%. And the other 80% comes from private sales, grants? They come from grants. They come from private foundations. Grants from federal government? Indirectly, yes, through the state. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay. Any other questions? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have in the council? One here, Mayor. Okay. I view it as this City Council's job, a sacred holy duty, to safeguard the purse of this city. You people sitting out here in the audience, you're paying that $79,500. You think you're getting a bargain? You think it's a good deal? We just raised taxes on these people this year. The library's fixing to ask for another tax increase.
 The old fireman's fund is fixing to actually increase. And we're going to spend $79,500 putting rocks in a stream. Well maybe that's important. Maybe that is a good thing. Maybe it's protecting our investment. But it seems like we need to have priorities in spending around here. And I don't think this is a very high priority. I think the streams will go on living whether we put rocks in them or not. That's just my perspective. I'm not a biologist, but I'm concerned about the money we're spending. Any other comments from the council?
 Yes. I would like to ask Mark from the Water and Sewer Committee's perspective. We have over the years been going through an issue with Illinois' watershed and addressing that. Well, this is the White River watershed. Right. Yes. If Mr. LaTour would attend our meetings, we've had a lot of reports on the importance of managing this to protect the water quality in Beaver Lake.
 The West Fork of the White River is an impaired stream. The more damage we have in the stream bed, the more sediment that we get. This gives us a higher sedimentation rate. And so in order to protect the quality of the water, as well as the aesthetics, in the long run, and to meet ADEQ and EPA standards, we do have to manage the runoff.
 So this is a sound investment and it's coming from an enterprise fund, which I guess you can look at that as a tax because you're paying your water, sewer, solid waste every month. But it also is going to be an investment in the future. We had a very good report that was brought to us that talked about the return on investment by managing this type of activity.
 From the point of view of those of us that have reviewed all the data, especially since we are only for 20% of an investment in protecting the watershed, this is of great value on the return on investment that you as a taxpayer, as it's been said earlier, you'll receive in the long run.
 From the point of view of the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee that has spent years literally on this and on managing it, it's a great investment. So that's what I would say regarding this. Okay. All right. Well, I did see the stream restoration in Neal-Cosco a few years ago. The water had, the bank had wrote it to it. It was about six feet from people's homes. Council came in to take it.
 Action to restore those stream banks and we basically save those homes from being undermined and I will also remind the council members from Ward 4 at the Red Oak Park. It's a little stream. We overdeveloped along that bank and it went from a stream to about a 24 foot wide.
 Creek that undermined part of the park over there. It cost us over four hundred thousand dollars to repair So we felt as though if we make those adjustments a little early. We don't have to pay so much later So anyway, but you can see those streamside restorations at Neocostka and Red Oak and over by the airport so and you can judge that for yourself Alright, I haven't said that Sondra. Would you please call the roll? I?
 Yes. There is a motion to second. Yes. There is a motion to second. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? No. Long? Yes. Thank you, K. Number 2, an ordinance waives requirements for former competitive bidding and to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,017.86 for a stormwater education program for 2016.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville, along with 17 other cities in northwest Arkansas, has been operating under the Environmental Protection Agency's federally mandated Phase II stormwater regulations as a municipal separate storm sewer system,
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has determined that a regional approach to certain minimum control measures required for renewal of the municipal separate storm sewer system permits, specifically public education and outreach, public involvement and participation, and the education component of pollution prevention and good housekeeping, is both logical, cost effective, and appropriate, and this approach has been approved by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality,
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has endorsed a proposal from the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to design and provide a stormwater education program to all municipal separate storm sewer systems in Northwest Arkansas. And whereas the cost of the agreement to the city for 2016 exceeds $20,000 and would otherwise require competitive bidding unless the requirement is waived.
 Now therefore it being ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 If the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the Mayor to sign a Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of which is attached here to and made a part hereof, between the City and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,488.80,
 or stormwater education program to be provided by the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to satisfy portions of the Environmental Protection Agency's phase two stormwater regulations. Did you say forty thousand four hundred and eighty eight dollars? That's that's what I said. I had forty thousand seventeen thousand dollars. Well let's ask Chris which number is right because the body says forty thousand
 The second item, the one that you read. I think the agenda might have been slightly incorrect. I will read that correctly when I read the title.
 Okay, Chris, what do you have? Yes, Mr. Mayor, this is a contract that we've utilized for several years to provide for a portion of our MS4 permitting requirements, public education and outreach, public involvement and participation, and training for municipal employees. And there is information in the packet about what those entail if you care to read in detail.
 Each city in the urbanized area participates with this. We all pool our resources and pay the regional planning commission, which then passes that through to the U of A Cooperative Extension Service. They provide the services, all of the outreach, the materials, the training as part of this contract. I'll answer any questions. What question do we have for Chris on this? Yes.
 I'll be proactive here. From the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee activity, we've reviewed this again regularly, and we have to meet specific standards set by the ADEQ. This is a portion of meeting that standard set by the ADEQ in their Phase 2 of their regulations.
 We're getting a partnership here again where our participation in this is giving us a return on investment more than if we were doing this alone dollar for dollar. So that's why it makes sense to go ahead and invest in a regional program and a regional approach as well as it's the best thing we can do to protect the quality of the water in the long run and to protect our risk
 of defying standards that are going to be set or set by the ADEQ. Any other comments, questions for Chris, anything? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. I will bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Luterra. Yes. Long. Yes. And I will correct the scrivener's error in the title and read it. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,488.80 for a stormwater education program for 2016. Thank you.
 I move we suspend the rows and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $40,488.80 for a stormwater education program for 2016. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number three, a resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by reclassifying North College Avenue between Maple Street and North Street from five-lane principal arterial with an 87-foot right-of-way to a four-lane thoroughfare with a 63-foot right-of-way.
 I'm just wondering if you could talk about the subject section of College Avenue between Maple Street and North Street. And the city is in the process of designing improvements to this section of street, similar to what we've done in the downtown area in 2009, where we added the wide sidewalks and the streetlights and the trees.
 In accordance with our master street plan, this road would be widened out to a five-lane arterial roadway. The sidewalk would be separated by green space from the street. And so in order to amend our master street plan to be consistent with our planned street improvements, which would be sidewalks right at the back of the curb, similar to the downtown area, we're proposing to amend the master street plan from a principal arterial down to an ST-63,
 This would actually reduce the amount of right-of-way that would be required. This item was discussed at the Planning Commission meeting, the previous Planning Commission meeting. They recommend approval of an ordinance to amend the Master Street Plan. They did have some specific recommendations that are in your packet. In particular,
 Number two discusses the recommendation number two that before beginning construction on the sidewalks on the west side of the road, the city should engage its chosen transportation planning consultant, Nelson Nygaard, in a detailed study of this area to assess the efficacy of a road diet.
 And then recommendation number three was that in recognition of the important role that streets play in land use, the city should consider not just the engineering implications, but more importantly, the potential impact of transportation infrastructure might have on goals one through six.
 So in a nutshell, our Planning Commission was recommending in favor of this downgrade, but they would like for our transportation consultants, when we do the transportation master plan, to continue looking at this section of road. It might be potential to at least evaluate having a road diet here. So instead of going with a four-lane road, you might go to a three-lane road, or there may be some other solution that our consultants could come up with. Thank you. All right. What questions do we have for Andrew on this one?
 i have a question for the city attorney how do we need to amend this to include the recommendations of the planning commission i don't i don't really know how you would do that for their recommendations i think that you need to actually pass this to change the master street plan okay and then i think uh just that the street the transportation committee can look at uh the other recommendations uh as it goes forward keeping in mind this is a state highway
 And anything that we would want to do would have to pass the highway department's approval. But they certainly would have no problem with this 63-foot right-of-way because basically that's all we have. That's why we almost have to pass this because we don't have enough right-of-way to build the standard boulevard. We've got retaining walls through there. So anyway, I think that's probably the better way is to let the transportation take a look at that, those recommendations from the planning commission. Thank you.
 Mayor, I might also add, Alderman Kenyon, that as the City Council has brought the Transportation Master Plan contract, we can speak about those items being included, and then those council members that don't want it, they can amend it out. And for those that do, you can vote for it. Okay, thank you. Matt, did you have something? Sure. Well, I was really grateful to see the Planning Commission attach these recommendations to it. Me too.
 Regardless of whether or not we, let me back up. Especially in the second recommendation, there are a couple of options that they've asked us to look at with our transportation consultant. I think Andrew described what's probably the most extreme of those options, the road diet. I think we should look at that, but there's a whole spectrum of less drastic options. The one I want to talk about is lane width reductions.
 And this may seem like it's a technical topic, but I think it's got tremendous bearing with regards to public safety for this street. We know because there's been empirical research done by more than a dozen other state DOTs, not Arkansas, and also the Federal Highway Administration.
 narrow, more narrow lanes than what we have today are actually safer and handle the same amount of traffic. In fact, there's a section of college today that has 10 foot wide lanes, and the highway department has told us that we have to widen them out to 11 feet, even though we have empirical studies from I think 14 other state DOTs and the federal government that say that that's less safe.
 I think that this is something that we have to be very adamant about. I would go so far as to say that if you're ready to vote yes on this ordinance change tonight, then you need to acknowledge, at least implicitly, that you're supporting the Planning Commission's recommendations because this is so important for the public safety of the community. There's almost 30,000 vehicles per day that use that street. I've personally been eyewitness to almost half a dozen accidents.
 in this particular section and I'm sure I'm not the only one that has seen something happen. It has to be made more safe and right now the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department is standing in the way of us making it more safe. We have to be absolutely clear that that is the reality of the situation and we have the evidence to back it up and so
 I want to end by underscoring that I'm so grateful for these recommendations from the Planning Commission and we need to sign onto this as a council and discuss it in detail with our consultants and our Transportation Committee because nothing will speak more to public safety with the way this roadway works than reducing the lanes to a minimum
 established with that will handle the traffic that is there today while also improving safety. Let me make sure I've got this in my head. When we meet with our transportation consultant, she wants to bring these topics up and let them look into it? In fact, I think we already have. I think this is the way the negotiations are going with the transportation consultant. College Avenue is the centerpiece of Fayetteville's transportation network and, of course, it's going to be a part of the transportation master plan update.
 Okay, what are the discussions do we have on that do we have a number on what this is gonna cost? Yeah Chris do you have a idea on that number? I
 The project that's approved through this year's transportation work plan is the east side of the sidewalk project on the east side of college. It's estimated at about a million dollars. We expect to bring the west side to the council for consideration for the work plan next year. It would be about the same amount. So $2 million to make this street improvement. Yes. Yes. Between Maple and North. Correct. Correct.
 Well, it's so dangerous, Mayor. I don't know how we've lived with it for this long. Okay. Gee, I've never seen an accident when I drive by there, but I don't think that's an empirical statistical analysis. One today on my way here. What other comments do we have? Any questions? All right. What public comment do we have on this? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well. What would you all like to do? I move we go to the second reading. Well, this is a resolution. This is a resolution. I move we pass it. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? No. Long? Yes. Okay. Moving along to number four. An ordinance to approve vacation 15-5280 submitted by...
 USI consulting engineers incorporated properly located at 5 West Appleby Road to vacate portions of sewer and drainage easements kept whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined that the following scribe sewer and drainage easements are not required for corporate purposes and
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates portions of the sewer and drainage easements as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. 1. 2.
 Vacation of the sewer and drainage easements shall not be valid until such time that new easements have been filed of record covering the new utility locations. And number two, any costs associated with relocation of or damage to the sewer and drainage and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Andrew?
 This is an undeveloped property at the southeast corner of Appleby Road and Bob Youngkin Drive. A large-scale development for the Washington Regional Medical Center was recently approved for some office development on this property. There's some existing utility easements and drainage easements that go through their development site, so they're simply requesting to vacate these easements in order to build their project. This went through the Planning Commission, was unanimously forwarded to City Council for recommendation of approval. Thanks. What questions do we have for Andrew?
 A public comment we have on this. Okay. Bring it back to the council.
 I move we bring it to the second reading, please. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schaumar. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 15-5280 submitted by USI Consulting Engineers Incorporated, a property located at 5 West Appleby Road to vacate portions of sewer and drainage easements.
 Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Petty. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. In order to approve the AC 15-5280 submitted by USI Consulting Engineers Incorporated for a property located at 5 West Appleby Road to vacate portions of sewer and drainage easements.
 Any final comments from the council on this? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Tenet? Yes. St. Mark's? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay.
 Number 5, an ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5287 submitted by Jorgensen Associates, a corporate property located at the southwest corner of Persimmon and Mountain Ranch Boulevard to vacate portions of utility easements. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described utility easements are not required for corporate purposes.
 I therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates portions of utility easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as exhibit 8 of the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Andrew. Andrew.
 Yes, this property is undeveloped. It's at the southwest corner of Persimmon and Mountain Ranch Boulevard. The applicant had previously gone through city council and had approval for a PZD to allow for some smaller single family homes on 10 lots. And these homes also are allowed to be built closer to the street
 And in order to do that, they have to vacate some easements that are located in the front of the property. So that's what this is, is to vacate some easements so they can final platen their subdivision and move forward with building homes on the property. Thank you. And what questions do we have for Andrew on this one? Yes, Mayor. Andrew, when we first visited this rezoning, gosh, it's been a long time. One of the issues they were going to have is
 trash service, where the trash pickup would be. There was an issue specifically with the turning radius of the trash vehicles being able to go in the back alley. How specifically has that been solved? I just want to get that on the record for constituents that are listening tonight.
 So in a couple of weeks or months ago, they did bring through an amendment through City Council that actually changed their layout. They got rid of the alley. So trash service will be provided along the street. So it should not be a problem. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? We have any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I may go to the second reading. Second. Motion and second to go to the second reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Tenant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5287 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates Incorporated, the property located at the southwest corner of Persimmon and Mountain Ranch Boulevard, to vacate portions of utility easements.
 I move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latere. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance approved, VAC 15-5287, submitted by Jorgensen and Associates Incorporated, for property located in the southwest corner of Persimmon and Mountain Ranch Boulevard, to vacate portions of utility easements. Thank you.
 Okay. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shotmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to approve vacation 16-5303 submitted by Reed & Associates Corporate Property located at 4200 West Mahogany to vacate a portion of utility easement. Kipp?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority to enter ACA 14-54104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any cost associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner developer's expense. Number two, owner is responsible for any damage to existing AT&T facilities.
 This property is located at 4200 West mahogany drive. It's in a neighborhood in West fayetteville. The home was built in 2009 About one foot of the house encroaches into a utility easement along the side property line so they're requesting to vacate the easement in order to have the property being compliant and They are not in violation of the zoning code But a structure and an easement is in violation of our city ordinances and the actual utility easement so they're requesting to vacate the
 vacate the easement. Staff and the Planning Commission recommend approval. Thank you. Any questions we have for Andrew? Yes. May I ask, Andrew, how does this happen? There's many different ways a home may be built in an easement. I think one of the most common ways is
 that not properly staking the property lines when people first lay out the foundation. That's a common way and sometimes property pins are not, get removed at some point. You know after the subdivision is platted the pins may be in the ground and then by the time the foundation guy comes out there or they haven't, if the lot hasn't been, you know strings haven't been installed properly.
 That's one common way. Another common way is sometimes people do not realize that you can't build the overhang of your house into a utility easement. And so whether it's the foundation, folks that are installing it, there's different ways. I'm not sure what happened on this particular one. I was just wondering if there's something we should be about doing as a city to keep this from happening so that we have to keep taking these actions.
 Now, I think over the years you probably have seen less and less of these. I think we have caught some of these on the front end. We catch a lot more of these on the front end, and so you do not see as many of these, I think, recently. So I think we have been improving our inspection process that catches some of these.
 It really is up to the builder to locate the property lines and the easements properly. When our guys are going out there and doing inspections of the foundation, they are typically pulling a tape measure, but the actual survey is the responsibility of the applicant. Sometimes if the property line is not strewn properly, we're not going to be catching a one-foot error, which really should have been caught on the front end by the builder. Thank you. Anybody else?
 Okay, any comments from the public on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Do we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latere. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5303 submitted by Reed and Associates for a property located at 4200 West Mahogany to vacate a portion of a utility easement. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Gray, yes. Marsh, yes. Kenyon, yes. Petty, yes. Tennant, yes. Schottmeyer, yes. Latour, yes. Long, yes. In Orders to approve the AC 16-5303 submitted by Reed and Associates Incorporated for property located at 4200 West Mahogany to vacate a portion of utility easement. Okay, any final comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Sorry. All right. I was in a hurry. Schottmeyer? Sorry about that. Is that a yes? Yes, ma'am. Loutier? Yes. Blum? Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Norden Street Zoned that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5240 for approximately 128 acres.
 Located at 2514 West Lurie Road from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, and RSF 4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RA Residential Agricultural, RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, NC Neighborhood Conservation, and NS Neighborhood Services subject to a bill of assurance. Kip.
 Whereas after three lengthy meetings with substantial public comment and opposition from neighbors in the surrounding residential single-family neighborhoods, the Planning Commission in a split vote recommended denial of the applicant's request from RMF 24 and approval of the remainder of the proposed rezoning. And whereas the applicant continues to seek rezoning of the southern 20 acres portioned to RMF 24. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas Section 1...
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map as Exhibit A and the legal description Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, RSF1, Residential Single Family, one unit per acre, and RSF4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to RA, Residential Agricultural, RMF24, Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre,
 NC Neighborhood Conservation, NS Neighborhood Services, all subject to a bill of assurance.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the Zoning change provided in section 1 and let me just note for the record This is not exactly what was recommended by the Planning Commission I did recommend against the RMF 24 But the burden is upon the applicant to win by five affirmative votes for any rezoning and therefore this is the applicants last request including their bill of assurance and
 That's why that is what I read and that's what's before the City Council when we start. It doesn't mean it can't be amended sometime in the future or just handled without any amendment, but I want to tell you why it was that instead of reflecting what the Planning Commission had recommended. Andrew. Andrew.
 This property is the Resback Golf Course that you're probably all familiar with. It's around 130 acres. It's been closed in recent months and the applicant is obviously petitioning to rezone the property as described in the attached ordinance.
 A significant portion of the property is proposed to be re-zoned to RA, residential agricultural. So of the property, about 33%, which is along the Clever Creek floodplain, would all be zoned residential agricultural. And the bill of assurance that we passed out, the applicant emailed this to me. I think this is slightly modified from what is in your packet. It's intended to be used only as parkland, a green space or conservation area.
 In the planning staff's opinion, we do feel like the zoning is compatible with the surrounding residential properties. There really is a mix of uses in the area. Directly to the south, there's a neighborhood of duplexes. Then to the east, there are some multifamily structures in the pines and springwoods. And there's a transition of single-family homes further to the north and to the west as undeveloped RSF4 zoned property.
 We feel like the proposal for a mix of multifamily and single family is appropriate in the area, and the zoning districts proposed are consistent with our goals to create traditional town form. And the proposed RMF24...
 in s neighborhood services and in C neighborhood conservation zoning districts all require buildings to be placed within a built to zone. And we do feel like it is important to have not one type of housing in a whole area of the city, but to mix housing types. And so that is one of the reasons we feel like the zoning is appropriate because you would have an option for different types of housing types and price points in the same general area.
 And we do feel like the proposal to rezone the collaborative flood plain to residential agricultural on with the bill of assurance would be in line with our goals to create an enduring green network in the city which is one of the top goals of our city plan twenty thirty and so with that we're recommending approval as the city attorney discussed there was this went through planning Commission three times. Planning Commission but a denial on the multi family but they were comfortable on the remainder of the proposal.
 and we have received a substantial amount of public comment we have included. All that we've received I think at the time of publication your packets, I'm sure you've also received lots of comments from neighbors. With that I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have all right what questions we have for Andrew. Is there other property in the neighborhood Andrew this is on or enough 24.
 There is some. If you look further to the south of this property, down Mount Comfort, I mean down Dean Solomon, there are some RMF properties closer towards the Subaru dealership. Anything else? Thank you. Is the applicant here? Good evening. My name is Ron Kavaniss. I'm the current owner of Razorback Park Golf Course.
 would like to say that the whole sale of this property is contingent obviously on the rezoning in accordance with what lindsay group would like to have it to build what they need to build to make it work and i'd like to stress again that this should be an all or nothing vote as far as the rezoning goes because without the apartments the green space just doesn't work they're gonna there's got to be a balance between
 Those two things for it to work. And if you have any questions, I'll be here and available to answer them. What questions do we have for Mr. Kavis right now at this time? Sir? All right. Mayor. Hang on. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, councillors.
 My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here on behalf of the applicant and there's several issues that we had to deal with the planning commission throughout the process. And I request, I have a PowerPoint that I sent to Andrew earlier. It has a few slides and he told me that I have to get permission to be able to use a PowerPoint at the City Council. I just request permission to be able to have something to point to when I go through the issue. Well the applicant, according to our rules of order procedure, is allowed to do a PowerPoint presentation.
 do y'all have the clicker see if i can work it let me go to the next page just go down oh that's next all right this first this first slide thank you andrew this first slide is basically a before and after of where we're at today right now just in the before picture i'd like to show that there is already existing uh rsf4 along the north there's existing rsf4 along dean salt so you
 Today, without asking any questions, RSF4 can go in behind the houses to the north and along Dean Solomon. In the middle, there's some RA and RSF1 where the lake is. After about six meetings, six or seven meetings with the neighbors and three planning commission meetings, the after picture is what we have gotten to.
 This is after a lot of changes. Now, the one thing that has remained constant is the multifamily aspect. We're an apartment company, and that's just part of what we do. Other than the multifamily aspect of this, we have done basically everything that the City Planning Commission and staff have asked us to do. I'd also like to point out the RA along the north is the bill of assurance that we sent in.
 is that's about 41 acres of parkland, conservation land, green space that will be green space forever. In the bill of assurance I sent also, we also included that we will cap the number of residential units on this 128 acres to 730 residential units. So, yeah.
 If you have 300 houses in the NC, then you could have no more than 480 apartments because that's the acreage. But then if the houses get to go in really well, we could reduce those acreages. But in no event could we do more than 730 residential units on this entire piece. That's 128 acres. We'd also like to point out where to go.
 I'd also like to point out, when we came in with the bill of assurance to do the park along the north, we actually, saving that green space, we have gotten substantial support from the neighbors to the north in favor of this proposal. They were here at the last meeting speaking on our behalf. I don't know who all is here tonight, but we have gotten support of our neighbors to the north on this project with the park plan. Thank you.
 Next thing, the first thing really when we've gone to these meetings, the first thing that people ask us is what are you going to do about the flood? So what you're looking at here is a picture that shows that you're looking south along Dean Solomon. So the portion to the left that is very high, that's to the east of Razorback Golf Course.
 That's not on Razorback Golf Course. So what you're seeing is the water elevation on the east side is coming up over the road. Dean Solomon actually acts as a dam in this area. The water can't get across it, so it backs up on the east side of the road and then comes open. So the problems with flooding are really created on the east side. It's not the golf course that creates the flooding issues.
 If you can see on the west side, the water is coming under the road and the floodplain is doing exactly what it should do. When there's a large rain event, it spreads out, then over a short period of time it comes back into the channel. The reason that this picture exists is that box culvert right there. That is Google Earth and you're looking at the box culvert to the east. That box is just too small.
 When there's a large rain event, enough water cannot get through there for the creek to flow properly. The issue that's coming, the flooding that people will talk about, is all to the east of Dean Solomon. Nothing we can do on the Razorback Golf Course property solves the flooding created there on the east side of the road. So, what's going on?
 Where I'm going with that is when the single family portion of this, the RSF4 on Dean Solomon develops, like any other development in town, half street improvements are going to have to be made. So as it goes south from this area, curb and gutter are going to have to be put in. The road will be improved. The half street improvements, whatever city engineering says, half street improvements will have to be made to Dean Solomon.
 Well, we are willing, if we are approved tonight, we are willing to pay up to $150,000 to the city so that the city can address this problem and fix the flooding in this area. So if we are approved, we can add that to the conditions of approval. The next issue that we hear a lot are schools.
 that we're going to the schools are overcrowded and that where you're going to put all these these school kids So we need to address all the school kids that don't have anywhere to go Well, the fact is if you really look at the numbers that that's really a non-issue The I got these numbers from the Fayetteville Public schools right now. There's nine thousand five hundred and three kids in the Fayetteville public schools the census says that there are a
 36,188 housing units in the city of Fayetteville. You divide that out, you get .26 school-aged children per residential housing unit. So to have some type of comparison, if the entire Razorback Golf Course was RSF4, you take 4 times 128 times .26, you get 133 school kids. If you look at our proposal,
 If you have the NC, which would be 250 homes, with the Bill of Assurance capping it at 730 is where I'm getting these numbers. If you have 250 homes times .26, that's 65 school kids. In our apartments, we have one- and two-bedroom apartments. The fact is we just do not have that many school-aged children. By the time your kids start getting old, they move to other accommodations generally.
 So we have across our system, we have about .1 school-aged children per apartment unit. So that's where I get that number. And that, we have about 40,000 apartment units. That's across the board. So that's a pretty good sample to say. So you have, I think it's .12. So you got 52 kids, so a total of 117 school kids. So we actually have less with our proposal than if the entire site was RSF4.
 So the next big issue you hear, especially here, is traffic. Dean Solomon is under, you know, you can't put any more traffic on Dean Solomon. So this map that I have here is from the Arkansas Highway Department. The Highway Department has, you know, they do traffic counts all over the place. And what I initially set out to do is I was going to go back and I was going to highlight all the roads in Fayetteville that have more traffic than Dean Solomon.
 So I was going to show how the system worked. Well, what you find out is that every road in Fayetteville has more traffic than Dean Solomon. So Dean Solomon is in blue. The orange that you can see, kind of on the outskirts here, those are the only roads I could find that had less traffic than Dean Solomon does right now. The traffic count on Dean Solomon is about 2,000 trips per day.
 That, for a two-lane open ditch road, that is just not that many. So we did some numbers. So if you take existing traffic, 2,000 trips per day. That's what's there right now according to the highway department. These trip generation numbers, these are from the National Institute of Traffic Engineers. This is what the city engineering is going to use, what any traffic engineer will use to project traffic. So on an apartment home, they use basically seven trips a day.
 On a detached single-family home, they use about 10 trips a day. So if you, again, using our 730 cap, if you add full build-out, we'll be adding about 5,300 trips per day to Dean Solomon. That leaves it at a total with the existing traffic of 7,300 trips per day. To compare that with what we're dealing with in Fayetteville right now, Mission Boulevard—
 is two-lane, open-ditch, 16,000 trips per day. Old Wire, two-lane, open-ditch, 8,200 trips per day. Drake Street, two-lane, open-ditch, 9,800 trips per day. Zion, two-lane, open-ditch, 8,400 trips per day. Highway 112, which is by the...
 drive-through, two-lane, open ditch, 8,900 trips per day. Razorback Road, north of the stadium, two-lane, open ditch, 10,000 trips per day. By the time, you know, with half street improvements done to the residential portion of Dean Solomon,
 That gets you a two-lane curb and gutter street township, which is two-lane, where curb and gutter has 19,000 trips per day. Dean Solomon is actually underserved. There is not enough traffic on Dean Solomon, so saying that Dean Solomon has too much traffic just does not bear out. And again, these trips are assuming that 100% of the traffic out of this development would go north, which...
 That's just not the case. The majority of the traffic is going to go back to the south to get to 49. So even with 100% of the traffic going north, which logic would tell you isn't going to happen, then you're still underserved existing two-lane open-ditch roads in the city of Fayetteville. Traffic at this site is just not an issue. The next big issue we hear is crime.
 I actually had a lady at church ask me, please don't build Betty Jo behind my house. She actually told me that. There is a big misconception about apartments and crime. It is a misconception. So we asked the Fayetteville Community Policing Department to get us all the calls. This is as of December 15. All the calls that had to do with the links at Fayetteville.
 That would be the most similar development we would have. The Links is 10 years old, so 9 years old. So as of December 4th, there were 349 calls or .57 calls per residence. The city in general at that same time had 106,000 calls or 2.9 calls per residence. Now, I'm not saying that issues don't happen. Issues do happen.
 But I am saying that we're six times safer than the city in general, which the city has issues that happen also. This is the most fair way to calculate these numbers that we've come up with. If there's a different way to calculate these numbers, we would love to look at it. But the management that Mr. Lindsay has put in place really is the reasoning behind this. If you have, everybody who lives with us has to go through a background search, or background check, I'm sorry. Okay.
 If you have a felony on your record, you don't live with us. If you have a sexually related misdemeanor, you don't live with us. If you really act out too many times, if you live with us, we move you out. Now, if you have a single family home and they rent it to somebody, there's nothing you can do about it. In our developments, we can do something about it. And because Mr. Lindsay has developed a system that manages our developments very, very intensively,
 We have crime rates that are a fraction of the city we're in all across our system. And another way that, you know, people say I'm making up numbers or whatever, Mr. Lindsay's had apartments in Fayetteville for 35 years. Y'all know from living here that none of the developments Mr. Lindsay has put in are a crime problem.
 like i said do issues happen yes they happen but they happen everywhere and i would say that the numbers bear out they happen a fraction of the time at mr lindsey's developments than they do in the city in general and the reason the reason that we're here tonight is the fact that fayetteville needs apartments that's why we're looking to do this that's why we're requesting the rezone right now in fayetteville we have about 5 800 apartments
 They are 99.61% occupied as of this morning. They're full. The Skyline report says that 750 people a month are moving into this area. Over the last few years, the city has approved a lot of student housing. A lot of student housing has gone in, you know, around the university kind of downtown. Well, what we do, we have about 60%.
 non-student housing in our developments. Now, we have Southern View, which is right by Ramey. That's about 92% students, but then you go down the spectrum to Paradox View, which is off a crossover, is 7% students, and then we have stuff all across the board. So, in general, about 60% of the people that live with us in Fayetteville are normal working people. They're not students, and
 People who work here in Fayetteville, people who live, that are moving to Fayetteville, need to have a place to live in Fayetteville. So if you look at the existing zoned multifamily that's in Fayetteville right now, that's about what you have. It's vacant. It doesn't have something built on it already. Now, I may have missed an acre track here or there, but this is a pretty good representation of it.
 You have a piece up on Zion. That's the very top one. You have a piece that's behind Panera Bread that doesn't have a road to it. It's landlocked at the moment. You have a few pieces down off of Huntsville. You have a piece south. That's at RMF 12, which is south of Martin Luther King. Probably will be developed at some point. The other RMF 24 down there, I don't even know how you get to that. And then there's a piece south
 Up there west of Ruple. Now there is actually, there's RMF 24 that's immediately adjacent to Razorback Golf Course. It's right there. I don't have it circled on here. We tried to buy that. We talked to them. It's not for sale and it's going to go as commercial. They're car dealers. They're holding that for a commercial use. So Fayetteville needs apartments. People are moving in. If something is going to happen, the areas that are desirable are farther north. That's why the last two non-student groups
 next to the Razorback Theater, and then in behind Target, they chose to locate up north. That's where the market is right now. So if Fayetteville wants to have apartments
 there's going to have to be some type of accommodation, some type of rezoning in the northern and western parts of town. That's where people want to be. Those pieces down in the south and east parts of town were there, and the people who came in from out of town looking for property, they chose not to buy those. Those are on the market right now. So if you look at all the interstate exits in Fayetteville,
 You can see on the map just by the zoning colors, you know, Martin Luther King, higher density houses come in, services come in, so you're pulling your development closer to infrastructure. You can see Weddington up there. Higher density houses are coming in, services are coming in, so you're not spreading everything out. If you look at Porter Road, Porter Road is the only interstate exit that we have that has not started to provide services and housing close to 49th.
 The site that we're looking at is four-tenths of a mile from 49. It is an infill site. The other side of the road, the university owns, so nothing's going to go in there. But Fayetteville is growing. The area is growing. And we can't afford to put people off in the outskirts. The reason city staff is in favor of this is that it's close to services. It is close to existing infrastructure. And we would hope that y'all look favorably on our request.
 And if there's any questions I can answer, I'd be happy to. I actually have a question and you may not be able to answer it, but do you know if the university provides a Razorback transit, well is there a Razorback transit stops anywhere close to that? You have to request it and they won't request it, they won't deal with your request until you have your development done. So like at the links at Fayetteville, there's a little square
 Area that we've put a bus stop and the bus comes through there now But it was over by the harps, but it took us a while to deal with them because changing routes They have to have the existing load base so That to answer your question the short answer is no I don't think I don't know but I would doubt there's a stop close The first thing we would do is try to get on the route, but what that site what I would anticipate is
 would not be as heavily student as some of the others. Now, nobody can say that, but number one, we will try to get on the transit. We've done it everywhere we can. You have a process in place. We have a process in place, yes. We did it, we actually built the bus station, the little bus, covered bus stop for it. So we would try to do it. Thank you. Yes, sir. Do we have any other questions? Yes, Al. Well, I'll have some later. Okay, sure. Okay.
 Okay, now Alan, you said you had something. Yes. I've been working with some citizens to gather some public input and just kind of organize the surrounding neighbors' thoughts into some clear and concise ideas for the purposes of maximizing our time in a very concise presentation.
 We've given presentations at the council level before. I worked with the constituent to put this together. I didn't realize until today that when I talked with Kit, that's actually against our rules of procedure. That's by you all. I'd like to make a motion to suspend our rules so that this presentation can be made. It will save us some time and I think be much more organized. I'll make that motion. We have a second.
 Okay, kid, what's it take on that? Well, this is a typical motion suspend the rules and our rules say that staff and applicants can make video presentations But it doesn't say anything about alderman which or or the opposition here staff did not make a presentation Normally that's kind of the opposition back and forth and time. It's a different situation So it does seem fair to lent
 the other side have a chance to present their side just like the applicants have had a chance to present their side. I'll add that I've personally seen this, worked on it, and it would just save us a lot of time and be more efficient to let them be a little bit more organized, I think. All right. Sandra, would you call a roll on that?
 Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmars. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, all right. I'm going to hand a packet to each council member after I get it to the press. Thank you. Mayor, while we get set up, just to...
 Correct an actual fact so we don't have misinformation out there. Chief Taber notified me that the number used for police calls in the presentation, which I think was like 106,000, must have been the total calls to CDC. The number of calls for police calls was 45,000 last year and that was a record. So they take calls for all types of things, but the actual police related calls was 45,000.
 My name is John Bull. I'm a resident of Floor Court, which is just adjacent to this property, just to the east. And I've worked with a group of residents to kind of organize and do exactly what Alderman Long described. So I want to say thank you for suspending the rules and giving me the opportunity to speak. At the first Planning Commission meeting,
 We all spoke individually, and the same subjects and concerns came up over and over again, and basically we beat a dead horse, wasted a lot of time, and so in doing this, we're trying to avoid that tonight. To show respect for your time, I'm going to represent 93 households who have specifically asked me to speak on their behalf tonight. That's more than 150 people who are foregoing their opportunity to speak, which that could keep us going for a while, right?
 In further respect for time, I'm not going to dramatically read every name as I did in the second Planning Commission meeting. It would take about five minutes to do. Instead, I've listed them there in your packet, which you've got a copy of all the slides. And speaking of the packet, don't get scared by the size of it. It's a lot of pictures, lots of show and tell time, and we'll fly through it pretty quick. I would like to say that as we go through it, based on the new update to the Bill of Assurance, which we weren't privy to,
 the numbers are going to be a little bit off i'll go ahead and state them if you've got a pin you can jot them down or just keep in mind i don't think it really sways a whole lot of what i'm trying to say but there are going to be a few numbers that are off with that in mind what i'd ask you to do tonight is to consider the numbers facts the photos scale comparisons to try to make a logical decision on whether this proposal is what's best for the city of fayetteville on its residents we have over a thousand forty-one people who have
 signed our online petitions, and 820 some odd people who are following our Facebook page who don't believe this fits. So before we start, I do want to say four quick things. One is that we have nothing against Lindsay Company or the Lindsay family. Highly, highly respect both the company and Jim Lindsay, Lindy, and the people that we've been working with. They've been great, and they've been great at the city of Fayetteville and the university for a long time.
 Second, we're not against development on this course. We understand there's going to be development on the course. We support it. We just want it to be responsible development. Third, aside from the cap of units in that bill of assurance, we don't believe that the RA section really provides any tangible benefits to the residents. The area that's being given is the area that you're going to see pictures of in a moment is constantly flooded. So I have not spoken to a developer yet.
 who's willing to take on the cost and risk to build in that area to begin with. So whether or not this goes through, that area should remain wetlands and green space. And then finally, we'll talk a little bit about Dean Solomon tonight, and I need you to understand that it's the only access to this property. There is no access to this property east or west. This is the one road that goes through there. It's boxed in by 49, so there's only one way in and out. So every car we talk about...
 It's traveling on Dean Solomon Road. So I'll jump over to the listing of names of the 93 households. We'll just jump through this quickly. And so I was told by a planning commissioner that the city attorney would say that a rezoning action is all about a determination of compatibility. But to keep in mind that compatibility isn't simply a question of similarity, but if the two areas are capable of existing together in harmony.
 And so that's how I'd like to look at it tonight. And as residents, our concerns are summed up with lack of capable infrastructure, that's both roads and schools, flood concerns, environmental impact, crime, and the adjacent zoning and whether it's compatible. And I'm going to speak on four of those tonight, the ones that are in bold. Alright, so at the first meeting, Commissioner Hoskins made a comment, and he said,
 If this is not a plan that people would support, I guess my question is what kind of plan would they support? And I haven't seen that tonight. And so I really took that home with me and thought, you know what, I made an assumption that Lindsay wasn't going to want to compromise on this deal, that apartments had to be part of the deal, but let's give it a shot. Let's see what we can do. And so a couple of other local residents and I started working with Lindsay Group and they were great to work with us.
 We met with them probably three times at their office, walked the property with them, exchanged countless emails, and we even exchanged a few proposals that we thought might be a good solution. However, in the end, my assumption kind of did come correct, and it was correct. It's that Lindsay, they don't develop single family properties. As they've already stated, if apartments aren't part of the deal, then they're out.
 Any compromise made by Lindsay would have to include apartments. Apartments are where the biggest issue is here with the number of people, the number of units, the number of vehicles. And so there just wasn't a compromise that we were able to come to. So let's talk a little bit about the scale of this. There's 128 acres of total land, but really 75 acres are developable. And the rest are either ponds or too steep a grade or in the floodplain and wetlands really. And so if we look at it and we look at the numbers,
 If we say the current zoning today, and we consider that all 128 acres, we're talking about 220 units, and that would equate to about 440 vehicles at two per unit. If we look at the 75 acres and we say let's rezone it all RSF4, we're looking at 300 units, 600 vehicles. If we say let's go to NC, which a lot of this property is NC, and we say let's do all 75 acres, NC, and that's roughly six units per acre,
 I think it's a fair estimate that I've gotten from developers. We're talking 450 units. What they've promised to limit it to is 738 units. So we're looking at 1,476 vehicles. So to illustrate the scale of that, and forgive me a little bit, if you have looked over our website, I really do appreciate it. You're going to see a lot of this looks familiar. That's one reason I'm going to go through it fairly quickly. Fayetteville Auto Park has 1,377 vehicles.
 We're looking at putting 1,476 on this property. This little fifth of a mile space is going to have more vehicles moving around at times than Fayetteville Auto Park has, and most of them are parked. If we look at what that means for traffic, the Institute of Transportation Engineers estimates that one supercenter receives approximately 10,000 visits a day. Based on their numbers, I'm now going to adjust this to 7,300.
 And that's based on what they told us a moment ago that this would be. So it's a little bit shy of a super center, so we've made some progress, but we're still talking about a significant amount of traffic on this road. So what does that mean here? If we look at the numbers, and again, I'm just going to jump to the bottom here, you combine it with 500 residences, and these are residences within 2,500 feet of Dean Solomon. So we could put a whole lot more in here. We're talking about 17,300 trips.
 And that's using their estimate of 10 vehicle trips a day per residence. And applying that to our residents. I had only assumed four. So I was giving them a lot of credit on that. If we look at what that scale... I'm sorry. Okay, so if we look at that scale and we apply it to the roads, we look at what is the harmony with the roads. We'll get back to that buzzword. And again, Dean Solomon is the only inlet and outlet from this property.
 So we look at what I do is I went and I looked at the guiding policies. We've got a master street plan, so I figure we ought to pay attention to it and we ought to use it. It's pretty clear from Mr. Jarrett's presentation that a lot of streets in Fayetteville are already over capacity based on what the master street plan would show. But in this case, I do suggest we look at it. So we look at those guiding policies. We jump over and we'll move through this pretty quickly. This is a residential street, and there's two pieces that I want you to pay attention to.
 One is the width, which is 20 feet wide, and the other is the number of vehicles per day, which is fewer than 300. If we look at a minor arterial street, we're looking at a 54-foot-wide, four-lane road with a vehicle capacity recommended below 12,200 vehicles. So we need to go back now and look at that 17,300. If this is put in place with current residences, we're exceeding it by quite a bit today.
 So, why are the street widths relevant? I went out and I measured Dean Solomon Road in four spots. I think my tape measure got run over twice. What I found was that all the way up and down Dean Solomon, it's about 20 feet wide. The bridge is a little bit more, one of the entrances to where the RMF is, is a little bit less. So, Dean Solomon is basically a 20 foot wide road. So now, if we apply some of the logic we've come to,
 What we're basically looking at is a street comparable to a residential street that's 20 feet in width, which this proposal aims to use for 17,300 cars per day, which is too many for a minor arterial street that's more than twice its width. That just sounds dangerous to me.
 and then in response to the uh the idea which we've heard tossed around a lot some of the planning commission some here about lindsay donating money and helping to widen the roads there's a bigger issue than that in this location the road is two miles long this property is only adjacent to a half mile of it so it's really impossible to require lindsay to repair and expand and widen the entire road it's just too expensive and then further even if they agreed to do so
 We've got two issues on the north and the south ends. On the south end, we have a recently redesigned intersection with Mount Comfort Road, which I don't think we're going to have them go back and totally redesign right away again. And then at the north end, we butt up to 112, which is a state highway, and the state isn't going to give them permission to go make modifications to that road. We're already running into that with the mayor's block. So there's really nothing that can be done, even if they agree to spend millions of dollars—
 to make this a four-lane road all the way up and down. Our second issue is drainage, and what is the harmony there? How would this impact it? And I did hear what Mr. Jarrett said, that a lot of the issues are to the east of this, and I agree. But what I want you to notice, I'm going to flip through these photos quickly. You've got them there in front of you. Notice that most of these photos are west, that are actually relevant to this project.
 If they widen that drainage box, it doesn't impact the rest. It actually probably worsens it because more flow goes there more quickly. And I'll get to the reasons why here in a moment. But this is on floor court looking at the course. So this is the property we're talking about. You all know we got a little bit of rain on around December 27th this year. And so some of these photos are from that time period. I do want to note that...
 Even though December 27th was not a 100-year flood event, we're told. However, we have that type of event about twice a year in this location. Some houses have been flooded, most yards have been flooded, water goes up people's patios and decks quite a bit. If we look at this, this is looking south down Dean Solomon Road, and this little area has become a river.
 This is looking south along Dean Solomon Road again, and it's very similar to the photo from one of our YouTube videos that Mr. Jarrett was showing earlier. You can see it's totally overtaken. So this one I'll say, you know what, this is an issue with the area to the east. However, this is the golf course. This is an area that should be draining off, but it's not, right? This is adjacent to people's homes. This is the police when they were closing down Dean Solomon Road because it was dangerous to pass through.
 Here's a look last June at a similar event. It wasn't near as bad. It was just a steady rain over a few days. Again, part of the course on the left is just off of Dean Solomon Road, and the right is part of the course again in another time period. So what causes this? What causes this? And I'm not a geologist or a civil engineer, but if I were, I would call this a drainage basin.
 and this entire area that you see circled in yellow on this topographic map drains right to the spot we're talking about, and we do have the property there highlighted in green. So there's nowhere for it to go. This is a bowl, and the water that comes in stays in. The bigger issue with it is that the grade or the steepness of it to the west is very light, so the water that gets there, it stays there.
 and it builds up and it threatens people's homes it threatens property and it creates safety issues and so without pulling this water out pumping it over a ridge it's really not going to go anywhere and so we have to do a whole lot in this area if we're going to fix it and i'd argue that we're not going to increase the grade to the west by digging up clabber creek which is
 already a point of issue because it drains into the Illinois River for Fayetteville and create a whole lot of damage there. So the last subject that I really want to address is crime. And we did hear from Mr. Jarrett a moment ago, and, you know, Lindsay has some data about crime. And, you know, first of all, let me say this. I want to be clear that this is not a knock on Lindsay. This is not an issue with Lindsay and crime. We appreciate what they do. They go through a
 huge process to make their apartments more safe. I expect this is true for all apartment complexes, but as we look at it, we did want to compare it to Lindsay Apartments to be fair to them. We didn't want to cherry pick some poor apartment building and use it as an example. So what we did is we decided instead of looking at a per unit basis, if we're talking about us having issues with the density of this project, let's look at it at a per acre basis.
 So how many crimes were reported? So we reached out to Fayetteville Police Department, we filed a Freedom of Information request, and they were great to fill it right away, they were super, super helpful, so kudos to them. And here's what we found. We found that in the area surrounding Lindsay Shiloh Apartments, over 2014 and 2015 data, we used two years here, there was about three and a half calls per acre.
 Around the links in newer development, there was one and a half calls per acre. Around the greens, we had almost four calls per acre. The area surrounding the golf course and the neighborhoods, we made sure to pull the neighborhoods in. So this is all the way over to Salem and all those neighborhoods, 0.21 calls per acre. So what we're really talking about on a per unit basis, and I'm not sure how the message from
 Our chief impacts what their statistics were, but per unit is not the same as per acre, and that's what we're talking about here. If you put this much density on this property, you end up with 7 to 20 times the amount of crime that we currently have in our neighborhoods. And to me, that's not compatible. And so finally, we did address earlier the...
 zoning nearby. And so what I did is I just went in and I created a map and I looked at this Fayetteville zoning map and I took the areas that were zoned RSF 4 or less and I made them green on this map. Any civil or business zoned property ended up gray and then anything greater than RSF 4 I put in red and I picked RSF 4 because if I had picked RMF 24 there'd only be one dot on the map.
 And so a lot of this red is RSF6, it's RSF8, RMF8, and so on. So it's still pretty low density in comparison. There are no other RMF24 developments within the watershed area. There's one area that's currently zoned RMF24. It has about three houses and a church on it, and no plans that we've heard of to develop apartments there.
 potential here to consider this spot zoning and i don't know a whole lot about it um i think our attorney can probably speak better to it but i did think it bore mentioning so in conclusion of all this we're talking about putting 17 000 cars on a road suggested for fewer than 300 creating a traffic amount comparable to a walmart super center
 Adding twice the number of vehicles the Fayetteville, I'm sorry, adding more vehicles than the Fayetteville Auto Park has to this one-fifth of a square mile area. Exponentially speeding off runoff to an area that already floods, even below the area that they mentioned they would repair.
 and potentially multiplying crime by 20 times the current amount in the area. There's one thing I did not address. Wilson Springs Preserve is a natural protected wetlands, and it's adjacent to this property. Terri Lane is the director. She's been great to work with, I would assume for Lindsay and us, we've been to meetings with both.
 She wasn't able to be here tonight, so our attorney's going to read a statement from her in regards to this, but it's a very sensitive area and ecosystem, it's the headwaters of Claver Creek, and there's a lot of stuff here that does impact it, so I'd like you all to consider that, even though I didn't have the opportunity to talk about it. And so I hope I've provided enough facts and some scale to kind of make this more relevant and real, and that you're able to make a good logical decision
 that the residents all believe you will. Thank you. Hang on a second. I think there's a few questions for you. I had a question. You listed the 93 households. I know a couple people in here and was able to check in with them, and I see one household represented as multiple. I already confirmed with one person who's listed on this that they don't endorse these decisions, and I also see the name of another person who was deceased as of last year. How did you get these 93 households?
 And do they in fact know that you are representing them? Yes, ma'am. So what we did is we have a Facebook page that has about 820 or so followers. We posted on there requesting anyone who would like me to speak on their behalf to post. And so typically it was someone in the household that spoke. The only exception to this was the Pines family.
 in which their POA reached out, asked if anyone had a problem endorsing it, because they're right there by the RMF24. They're really standing to lose the most in this. And I don't know that anyone said no. Or they sent me the list after he got back who wanted to be on it and who didn't. Right, maybe that's how, because the deceased person didn't say no. I think that that's just a really interesting thing.
 You know, the Pines is an interesting case here because it was mentioned earlier as an example of a multifamily area. Those are incredibly nice condominiums. They're people who are typically looking towards retirement or retirement age. And like I said, they have a whole lot to lose with this type of traffic generated straight across the street from them.
 Any other questions? Yes. And, John, you've also reached out to people through your GoFundMe page. Oh, yes. Yeah, we raised a significant amount of money through GoFundMe. We've had over 1,000 people sign online petitions. I think I mentioned that earlier. And we did ask, you know, tell everybody if they want to be removed. Two names were removed from this list.
 before I did publish it today. And then I think about six or seven new ones were added today. So you've got over 1,000 people that signed your petition? I'm sorry? You've got over 1,000 people that signed the petition? There's about 1,041 signatures on our petitions. Those petitions should have been generating e-mails to you all. I apologize. That was overwhelming. Mayor?
 Yeah, go ahead. John, we've talked a lot about this and we've met several times. Just to be on the same page, one of the things that was talked about earlier is they said that there wasn't substantial flooding on the golf course. We've seen flooding on the golf course.
 But we talked about the environmental sensitivity in the area because it's very environmentally sensitive. The hydrology of the soil is very sensitive. Yes. What do you think more rooftops in the area are going to do? Yeah, you know, that's the challenge. And there was a lot of discussion at the Planning Commission level about what –
 this would mean for the runoff, right? And with residential single-family homes versus multi-family. And there was some bad math being done, I think, but in the end, the reality was there's much larger parking lots, there's much larger rooftops, and the runoff is much faster with a multi-family development than a single-family home. We're also talking number of units as well. If we went single-family with this whole thing, even with NC, we're only at 450.
 we're talking over 700 with the adjusted proposal tonight so a whole lot more rooftops a whole lot more driveways sidewalks and roads here needed for this and that just makes it go down faster which is an issue wilson springs preserve i mentioned the protected wetlands one of the advantages of those wetlands is to slow runoff and absorb them and so on and so it's doing a real good job
 to the, even if the pictures don't show it, to the east of this, of trying to slow all that. There's just so much in the drainage basin that comes down that it's overwhelming, and adding to it is just very dangerous. Appreciate it.
 Any other questions? Any other questions? Yes, Adele. Now, if you would repeat for me, how many, you said if you put single family over the whole 120 acres, you'd have how many? Yes, ma'am. It'd be over the 75 that are actually buildable, which would be more realistic. If it was RSF4, it would be 300 living units max. If it's based on the current zoning, there's only 220.
 And then what I did for NC was I used six units per acre, which is commonly what an NC development will end up with, and that was the 450 units. So it would be a total of? That would be the total. If we did the whole amount, it would be a total of 450. And that would be building on the 40 acres that is the? That 40 acres is part of the 75 acres I'm considering in that number. Oh, okay. Thank you. So if this property was turned into NC,
 The whole thing, it would be 450 units. Yes, John. Hello, Mr. Bull. You put me in a very uncomfortable position. I want you to know that. Thank you. And I'm sure you're pleased with that fact. What irks me, what rubs me the wrong way about your proposal is imposition of what I want on somebody else. When this city, back in the 90s, came up with their overlay district along the bypass, I was against it.
 I like beautiful areas. I like garden areas of cities. When I go to New Orleans, I enjoy driving through the garden area. Okay? I like going through the old town of Fayetteville. It's very pretty, very picturesque. If the people of Fayetteville want to have a garden district along the bypass, that's all well and good. I have no complaints. Let them buy the land and do with it as they please. What rubs me the wrong way is when I want to impose my will on somebody else.
 You see, when government regulation expands, personal liberty recedes. And that's just what you're calling upon right now is big government, come in and stop this. I may vote for you, but it rubs me the wrong way. I've got to get that out. And I want everybody to know that. I'm in favor of personal liberty, freedom to choose. And what we're doing is we're taking away the owner of Razorback Golf Course. We're taking away his freedom of choice to put in that place you and the neighbor's.
 And I agree with the idea that Lindsey can't build apartments wherever he darn well pleases. Okay? And I agree with that. And we should look at existing grids and existing uses. I was having a conversation with probably one of the ladies on your list, and she got me to commit to say, I'll vote against apartments. I'm sorry I did that. Okay? I'm being very honest and brutally naked in front of everyone here. All right?
 So I'll probably be voting with you. But keep in mind, what I'm really about is freedom for people to make choices for themselves, not to impose my view on you. I think reading your Bible is a great idea, but I never vote for a law that requires you to do so. I think brushing your teeth three times a day is a great idea, but I would never vote for a law requiring you to do so. I think you should be free to choose for yourself. We're adults. I abhor paternalism.
 Okay. Telling you what's best for you. Yes, sir. You get a picture of who I am? I understand who you are. We've spoken on many occasions. May I respond? Sure. Okay. You will probably find citizens who don't want anything there. And in fact, you know what? Probably none of us want anything there.
 But we all understand something's going to be there. And we understand that Mr. Kavanagh has a right to sell this land. We just want it to be done responsibly and safely. And that's our issue. We don't want to keep him from being able to sell this property. I'd be happy to work with him to figure out how to divide up the plots and come up with a solution to get the whole property sold. But...
 A single family home developer can't go and buy 128 acres. They can't get a loan for it. So that's the challenge. Our homeowners associations can't get loans in general. It's a very difficult thing for us to go out and say, you know what, there's 800 people on the Facebook page. Let's all get together and buy this land and make it a park.
 And so those are the challenges we're up against. But I certainly don't want to infringe on anyone's liberties. We don't want to keep development from happening here. It's going to happen. We will encourage it if it's responsible. Our issue is just with the safety that this would bring. May I respond? Yes, sir. I've been on this council for a little over a year now. And what I've come to learn is when I hear the term responsible development, it usually ends up being no development.
 Because we can put so many regulations on the development that nobody's right mind is going to do it. When you say, let someone else develop it, well, where are those someones? Right now, there's only one player in the game right now, and that's Lenton Development. Nobody else is lining up to do it. And I got a feeling if this fish gets away from this current owner, another one's going to be a long time in coming. And he's faced with...
 more losses and more expenses and things like that. I mean, you have to realize I'm concerned with the individual. I'd be concerned about you if you were in that position. I understand. And I won't go that far. You see the difficult position I'm in? Yes, sir. Okay. I understand. I want you to realize that. And market forces I have great confidence in. And because there's nobody else lining up to develop it, that tells me there's nobody else to develop it or under these circumstances.
 and responsible development that can mean a lot of things. I don't know what that means. I have an idea, I know what you think it means, but
 When it gets into our city bureaucracy, it can mean a lot of things. It can change a lot at the planning commission level, that's for sure. I've had contractors tell me, man, every time I build a house in Fayetteville, I add $15,000 to the price just because of all the meetings I have to have. And all the tree people, the sidewalk people, the street people, the drainage people, the bird people, the whatever. We've got a committee for everything here. So that's...
 That's part of that responsible development that I'm concerned about. And who would be against responsible development? Of course, we'd all be for responsible development, but so many times that's code for something else, and that's what concerns me. Any other questions? Yes, Mark. When I look at this, I really appreciate what you've brought to us. I think it's good information. I appreciate what the other person brought to us. I want to...
 to talk a little bit about responsible development. First of all, we can't talk about Lindsay or a specific project. What we're talking about here today is the density and the zoning of property because this is not a planned zoning district. This is not a guaranteed development. So what we have to focus our argument on are the possibilities of what can be developed in this area if we rezone it.
 And so thank you for your presentation and thank you for Lindsey, but that's not what we can consider when we're talking about zoning. Zoning is a
 huge responsibility. It is one where we have to look at responsible development. When I hear the argument it costs $15,000 more for a home in Fayetteville, we have unique topography. We're managing two watersheds. We're managing the headwaters of two watersheds. We already have impaired waterways, so we are not the same as anyone else. We are Fayetteville with unique challenges of hills, valleys, basins,
 wetlands, and that's what we have to look at when we're moving forward in this discussion. So I just want, you know, I do appreciate all this. I think safety is important, but we have, it's so much more than that whenever we're considering the argument, so thanks. Yes, sir. Did you feel like I addressed development more than the zoning? I'm saying in general. In general, okay. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else got any more questions for Mr. Colt? Thank you, Mr. Colt. Thank you very much.
 Okay, Alan, I'll turn it back to you. Do you have anybody, anyone else? I'll wait. Okay. All right. Would the council like to take public input now? Okay. Okay. Now here's some of the guidelines tonight. Those of you that want to speak, at least give us your name and address. I assume, Mr. Rhodes, you're representing someone here. Okay.
 I am. I'm Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill, and I am representing four neighborhoods slash POA associations, Prairie View Acres, Crystal Springs, Creek Meadow, and Pines. And I would like to maybe reserve some comments directly for them, because I've also been asked
 to read a letter to you from the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, Ms. Terry Lane, as Mr. Bull referred to a second ago. So it's a short letter, I'll read it and then I'll sit down. This is dated today and it's addressed to the Fayetteville City Council in regard to the rezoning of the Razorback Golf Course. The Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, a local nonprofit conservation organization, owns the Wilson Springs Preserve.
 a 121-acre wetland adjacent to the proposed redevelopment site. Wilson Springs is a protected remnant of what was once a much larger wet prairie ecosystem. The preserve and other lands around it provide important ecosystem services, including water purification, flood control, and scenic value. The Clabra Creek bottomlands are a key piece of enduring green network for Fayetteville.
 The job of the wetland slash floodplain is to slow and filter stormwater before it reaches our waterways. In doing so, the area buffers against stream erosion and creates habitat for many unique plant and animal species, including the Arkansas darter, a small fish, which is a candidate for the Federal Endangered Species Listing.
 We ask that the City Council consider this important opportunity to find a win-win between the profitable and the attractive built environment and the needs and the role of the unique natural environment as well. Whatever development ultimately occurs on this site,
 must certainly go above and beyond in considering a low-density, low-impact design and the preservation of the habitat. Thank you for your consideration, Ms. Terry Lane, Executive Director. And with that, I'll sit down but hope possibly could come back. Okay, Rob. Now, on a public comment, everybody gets one turn at the mic unless you're asked to back up.
 All right. And keep your comments to me. Yes, sir. Don't get engaged with the citizen or another council member. Unless they ask you questions, you can give direct questions. All right. My name is John Calhoun. I live on Raven Lane, and my sister actually lives on property or is building on property adjacent to Dean Solomon. So I'm in the area. My family's in the area. We're very invested and will be.
 traveling frequently on this area. So I wanted to thank you for being here tonight and serving your city. I really appreciate it. We do have a process, and everyone here is taking the time.
 attainable housing is an important goal it's on your 2013 goals actually i'm sure you're all aware of that and however it's important but it's not more important nor should it be at the expense of safety and fiscal responsibility i've heard a lot of ideas approved tonight some contested based solely on the financial impact and i think that's that's very important but there's also safety concerns that we have here
 a major problem with this proposal for rezoning i want to be clear that that's what it is it's a rezoning proposal not that the citizens are putting forth but one one citizen and and lindsay to make changes to existing zoning but the major problem with that proposal is the fact that there's only one road in and out of the property
 None of the roads that Mr. Jarrett mentioned saying were comparable are the only way to get from point A to point B. An example he gave was Razorback Road. Stadium Road runs exactly parallel to that. There's a lot of other options. On this property, there's one option. It's Dean Solomon. I just moved here a year ago from All-Mel. They actually made shirts that say, One Way In and No Way Out. laughter
 So we can learn from others, even their negative examples and their struggles. Dean Solomon is currently a tiny farm road, and it can't handle the massive traffic that would be caused by rezoning to RSF 24. Both ends of this road have congestion issues. You can drive them at peak times, and you'll see they're going to be backed up.
 On the north end, there's a dangerous hill with a blind, it's a blind hill, and so many people are turning left to access the interstate to go through Johnson. That's how I go. It avoids some traffic, but it's certainly dangerous, and you're right there by a massive S-turn at Howard Nickel. So really dangerous.
 Tough traffic problems to the north. To the south you have Shiloh Road, which is kind of awkward but currently works okay because there's not a lot of traffic there. But that's going to change once this is built, if it's built irresponsibly. The city does not have money, I was told in the planning commission meetings, to further develop these roads on their own.
 And there's, as like was mentioned, there's restrictions on exactly what the city could impose. They may have difficulty imposing upon Lindsay to provide a traffic solution not only adjacent to their property, but hitting that northern highway sector and a southern Shiloh sector. That's not their problem. They won't be interested in fixing it once it would be approved.
 or anyone that would develop for that matter with that many units in play. So you'd be creating more traffic, which is dangerous. Many of us in the area commute. We commute north mostly. Getting to the interstate, whether you go north through Johnson or on 112 there by Sams or getting on to 49, I've traveled every one of those waves trying to figure out the fastest way
 so I can get north and there's not a great solution as is. If you add a significant number more of cars, you're gonna have even a worse problem.
 So let me be clear that the citizens, we're not against development. We are for doing it the right way, and what that means, to add some color to your question, is fiscally responsible and with safety considerations. And that's the role of government is to protect the people but not limit them to make their own choices. The only thing that the citizens have liked from the Lindsay proposal
 was the RA acres around the creek. The reality is that this is a flood tract and there's really no development that can be done on it anyways, but we as citizens are for making sure that this is zoned properly to protect the wildlife habitat that is there. I think it's important to note that you don't have to choose to zone something specifically
 the entire property a certain way to get the positive benefits. You can choose to zone a portion of this property into RA that you feel is acceptable and makes sense and the rest of it can be zoned differently. So you don't have to do an all or nothing approach here.
 No one wants to prevent the landowner from selling his property. And actually, if I quote Mr. Fugate, who's not here tonight, but was the Lindsay representative, he said during a planning meeting that the rezoning proposal, if it was denied, the property was very likely to be developed as is, which is a mix of different zoning allowing for different types of housing. Those are his words. He thinks it will be developed regardless.
 And I can tell you that the area that was developed just west of there where I live on Raven, three years, they've maxed out the neighborhood. They've sold every lot on that property. So it is a very likable area to want to be in, but there's obviously different ways to accomplish this zoning. Let's see. The city planners had some great ideas for what those different zones could be like. They had considered NC, RSF, or...
 so we have a lot of that already but obviously there's there's already a mix there between rsf1 and and four and six we have a lot of different options and i just want you to consider the safety when deciding on this so i appreciate your time tonight and i hope that just as the city planning commission voted against the apartments but was for development on the rest of the property i hope you will do the same thank you
 Who else would like to address this tonight? Hello. My name is Carter Clark. I represent Mr. Cavanaugh as a real estate broker on the transaction. I wanted to address a couple of things that have come up through the course of conversation and also through public comment about the fact that the property could be used for multiple situations and just how we've approached that throughout the course of marketing the property.
 We've had the property on the market for over two years, and in those two years we've had three potential interested parties, and all of them were partially apartment developers. Part of the challenge that we've seen with the property and making it developable is the fact that it does have the terrain, it does have the floodplain, and it is a large tract for a single developer to bite off.
 and take into an approach that makes sense. And so part of it is what makes it make sense for the Lindsay Company as well as the other apartment developers that we discussed was the density value that you can get on it. And that was one of the challenges that everybody came to. I've talked to every big developer in Northwest Arkansas as well as regionally.
 And it was just something that they couldn't look at as a single-family housing development with the terrain, with the large track of land, to make it make sense. And so I've just heard it keep coming up, and I thought I would approach that since I've been working on it hands-on for two years and the conversations that I've had through the course of it.
 Also, Mr. Cavendish and I have talked a lot about the drainage situation that goes on out there. And one of the things that he has informed me of that I didn't know prior to this was part of that having 128 acres of tightly mowed greens is it does cause a lot of runoff.
 And so part of what he has to do in the course of running the golf course is actually spray chemicals on the ground to create that absorption so the tightly mowed grass will allow for that to be absorbed.
 And so what I would insinuate is through the course of the development process, you guys have rules and regulations in place through engineering to create that stormwater system to slow the drainage that's going on that currently isn't being taken care of because of tightly mowed greens and fairways that that water is running off into the drainage system.
 And so I assume as representatives of Fayetteville, you guys represent and believe in the systems that have taken place and the regulations that have been put in place to slow those processes down. And so those are just two things that I've heard in comments that I wanted to address that I thought were important to think through as you're deciding on this matter. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to speak? Aubrey Shepard, South Fayetteville. Don't live near the site we're talking about.
 It shares some of the problems, and that's, you call it drainage, but it is what others have said. It's where the water soaks in, where the water doesn't run off so fast because it sucks in. And I live on a lot like that in Southville, surrounded by it. But each thing that's built upstream is gonna increase the speed of flow. If it's running through a ditch, a natural ditch with a natural soil,
 maybe some rock edges or something, then it'll slow down and sink in even in that ditch. When you put a big pipe through and try to guide the water speedily, it comes out someplace and does an equal amount of damage. And a lot of those pipe areas during these floods we've had over the years, even with that pipe, had surface water running parallel to it and over the property and so forth.
 But in this particular case, something I said a couple of months ago, or maybe when we were discussing the land along, wrote it on my hand, Van Asch. I still can't get used to that street existing. But anyhow, the new Van Asch, I used to drive on the part that's up the hill and take pictures of the geese and the water and all these things. It was downhill in the trees. They're gone. But most of the water from there comes right through this property.
 It comes right through this. It goes under the interstate. I said this that first night, two or three months ago, and a gentleman said, oh, no, our engineer tells us all the water's going off to the north. Well, I think he didn't say that again after he looked at the reality. The majority of water, at least, off of that property rezoned on Van Asch goes to the west part of it, at the very eastern part of it,
 the high ground, it runs off that way. And then there's still the land just to the, immediately to the northwest of the, excuse me, Wilson Spring area that's being rezoned and has been rezoned, I think, part of it already. It's all totally wetland, except the high slopes. So all that water, including a lot of water from,
 inner parts of Fayetteville that come parallel to Skull Creek, parallel to Skull Creek, come down this stream that goes through this property. So I can't agree with anybody that says it's somebody's right to build something that will damage other adjacent property, but we're still going to have the same philosophy spoken of upstream when more things are happening.
 More infill is built. It's going to run even faster down this same floodway. So you've just got to realize whatever rezoning you do tonight or next meeting or whenever, you need to make sure that the staff has the power and the planning commission has the power to bring you things for approval after that point will not do further damage.
 You know, you really need nothing on that particular land except low impact. And, you know, you can get a book or you can get it online. You can learn all the facts about various aspects of low impact development. So please keep that in mind. You lose a lot of control when you do a mass rezoning because each part of it is a bit different. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Good evening. Brian Sorensen, 2882 Purple Phlox. We've been looking at this thing for close to a year now as neighbors to this proposal. And, you know, let me say this. There's one thing that we do like about it, or several people do like about it, and I think Mr. Jarrett referenced it. That's the green space. Yes.
 A lot of folks really had a goal in mind of maximizing that as much as possible. He did talk about residents on Van Eyck, you know, the folks proposing this,
 rezoning, getting a lot of support from those residents on Van Eyck. I don't know who they are. I haven't met many of them. We heard from a couple of them at the last Planning Commission meeting and they quickly changed their tune after we opened up the lens and started to talk a little bit more about traffic concerns. The green space is all good, but I think it's akin to putting lipstick on a pig.
 to some degree. And here's why I say that. Let me say this. I'm going to be a little bit more emotional than Mr. Bull was. He was really good with facts and figures. I'm going to speak probably more so as a parent of three school-aged children, 11, 8, and 5 years old. And we live right along Dean Solomon. And I'm deathly scared of the traffic implications here with this rezoning.
 No doubt about it, I mean there's going to be a substantial amount of traffic. I mean there's just no way around it. And you know when I reference Lindsay complexes, I realize that's not what we're talking about today, but for a frame of reference, I think it represents what might be, should the rezoning be approved. And so when I say Lindsay, kind of take that with a grain of salt, just as a representation of what might be.
 But when I think about other Lindsay complexes, and it was said earlier, this one's unique in that it only has really one access point, and that's Dean Solomon Road. You know, we heard mentioned earlier some of the roads that have less traffic than Dean Solomon or were comparable in nature. Really, they're much longer in nature. Dean Solomon's fairly compact and has two very troubled intersections at each end.
 We talked a little bit about the north end of the road already. It is blind. It is a white-knuckle situation where you fear for your life when you travel it. The south end is also troubled. We see a lot of test drives along Dean Solomon coming from Subaru and Hyundai. And actually, I think Subaru is in the process of expanding their line, so we should see more of that. So what am I scared about? I'm scared about my kids walking up and down the sidewalks.
 along Dean Solomon. I'm scared of my children riding their bicycles across Dean Solomon to get to Holcomb, to get to Holtz,
 to access the trail system, which will soon come through there. That's really what concerns me. And, you know, talking about access points, another couple of complexes, again, as reference points to talk about the cliffs and the links, I think they're pretty comparable to what might be here on this RMF 24 parcel. They have some major access points along major state highways. So we're talking about Highway 265 crossover, and we're also talking about Highway 16 crossover.
 So I think there's a pretty substantial difference there. I saw in the packet that the council received ahead of the meeting, the bridge over at Cloudbird Creek, I think it's along Raven, I might be mistaken about the street name, but just to the west of this property.
 Staff mentioned that. I really think that once that bridge is complete and we have access on that side, I mean traffic's just going to divert further into single family residential neighborhoods which are low density. So again, access points are a big problem. Offsite requirements, we've already talked about that. Sure, we might get a bone thrown our way on the south end, but that north end is a real bear and there's just no way we're going to get that fixed.
 my children, other pedestrians, cyclists, we're all in danger as a result. And hey, let's face facts. A lot of the city's demand for apartment housing is really the result of University of Arkansas's growth. A lot of growth there, a lot of demand for student housing.
 I really think, and this might be anecdotal to some degree, but I really think based on the proximity to the U of A, based on the fact that this is only a short five minute drive to campus, there's going to be a lot of folks in that,
 what might be a Lindsay complex, who are going to school at the U of A. And I simply don't think that student housing is harmonious with my neighborhood in this area. So there's that word again, harmony. We haven't talked about the NS zoning. It's really been something we've kind of skipped over a little bit. I think that there are some questions around that.
 uh... we love the spirit of it i would love a coffee shop love uh... dry cleaner and love attacks prepare uh... but if i understand the uh... zoning designation properly were also uh... allowing uh...
 Multi-family dwellings to be constructed there as well. I believe that's one of the uses. So, be it two units or three units, we could see duplexes there, triplexes and so forth. And really nobody's talking about that and that kind of scares me too. Flooding, we talked, you know, you've heard plenty about flooding. When I first moved on Purple Flocks, and I am adjacent to the creek area, Wilson Springs is my neighbor behind my fence.
 I grew up in northwest Arkansas. All I know is red dirt and rocks. It took me forever to figure out why I had 200 to 500 little mud volcanoes in my backyard. Those are crawfish. I didn't know that we had crawfish in northwest Arkansas. I thought the only place you could get those is at a boil. But this is a unique area. It is truly a basin. There are no rocks. I had piers put under my foundation out there. The contractor who did that work didn't hit a single rock.
 uh to a depth of many many feet so it's a very unique area uh miss lane from the uh the land trust certainly has some great points about the uh sensitivity of the area uh you know in short and i'm going to wrap up here i think this is a little bit of a round peg in a square hole i don't think it fits the sensitive nature of the area it just doesn't feel right
 It feels a little bit like it's being rammed down our throats. That's a little bit of an emotional statement, but that's what a lot of us are left to feel. We think the folks who may come in and build their project on this property are getting a good deal on the land and therefore our safety has to suffer. I don't think that's a fair exchange, quite frankly.
 There's plenty of property for sale in West Fayetteville as I drive up and down Mount Comfort to drop my son off at Holt. I see a lot of parcels for sale and sure they may not be zoned for that use right now, but certainly with Mount Comfort access, direct access to Mount Comfort, they are much more reasonable for an RMF24 project.
 I feel sorry for the owner. I know he's had some bad economic fortunes. I really feel for him. I hope somebody comes in and buys this property and zones it responsibly. But again, I don't think that any of us living around this project should have to suffer
 because of those economic misfortunes and the fact that the only person coming forward to buy that property is wanting to put an apartment project on there. It's a hemmed-in area without direct access to a good-sized road, and I just frankly won't put my kids on that road, and that's a shame because right now it is really special.
 That's all I really have to say. I think anything other than a no vote on this proposal will surely be a sign that those of you up there today don't agree with me on that point and perhaps safety isn't a concern. I appreciate your time and I thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? I believe Mr. Rhodes that you represent a group of folks as well. I do, Mayor, but I think everything that I was going to say has been said. In the interest of time, thank you. Thank you.
 All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yeah, John. I'm voting no on this proposal, but I'd say that Mr. Jarrett's arguments prevailed tonight. I'm voting no for one reason. I told some lady I'd vote against departments. I regret making that statement now, but I'm going to keep my word. Many of the arguments that have been made tonight are emotional. They're not factual. In a court of law, we try to get emotion out of it.
 In fact, we'll exclude evidence because it's too emotion-driven. So I'd encourage our council to make a decision tonight based on the fact that you've heard. Okay, well, we're just on the first reading, John. There may be another week or two of this, so you might... Change my mind?
 Yes, or not. Yes, Alan. And thank you, Mayor. I was going to ask that the council, if you're not ready to vote on this, this is something that I would like to bring up at the Ward 4 meeting and have further discussion on. I think it merits that. It is a large scale, many, many acres. So there is a lot to talk about. I personally won't be supporting this most likely unless, you know,
 It would take a large number of constituents reaching out to me to change my mind because a large number of constituents have reached out to me and said they don't want it there. For good reason. They've talked about infrastructure needs. They've talked about the flooding, similar to what we looked at when we looked at the rezoning in Board 1 with, what was the name of that large development? Robert represented that group. Falling Waters, that was the name of it.
 You know, I think there's a lot of things that we need to talk about and continue this discussion on. So I just don't think we should vote tonight. But, you know, specifically, though, when and with respect, when Hugh Jarrett was talking about.
 One of the points brought up was that there's not flooding on the golf course. Well, we know that there's a lot of flooding on that golf course. It floods very, very often, so much to the fact that it comes up in people's yards, similar to the area near Falling Waters. So I'm not doubting the genuine nature of that statement that they didn't believe it flooded on the golf course. Maybe they just don't have as much experience with that flooding as the neighbors who live there.
 I think more roofs are only going to hurt that, and an RMF 24 portion would increase the amount of concrete that's there for parking. So you're going to see a lot more runoff for that. Topographical maps for the area definitely show that the runoff patterns do drain into this area.
 We also heard some points about crime and the numbers were wrong in the presentation. I think that's something that we should look at a little bit more closely too because the chiefs pointed out that Mr. Jarrett's presentation used inaccurate crime data from police calls.
 Another point that was brought up was that 99.61% of all apartments were full. Most apartment studies in the City of Fayetteville don't take into account apartments with units under 50. That's something that I don't think the 99.61 is most likely accurate. I can't promise that, but that's something to look at as well. There's just a lot of questions I have. I didn't want to get into a back and forth question and answer tonight.
 I just really request that we hold this because there's just a lot of things that just don't pan out right now. Adjusted. And you want to present this at your word for a meeting. When is that word for a meeting? That will be the 29th week from this coming Monday. Okay. Thank you very much. Yes, Adele. Mayor, I always listen carefully to our staff, and so they are recommending this. So I guess I would—
 I would ask Andrew, at this point, how can you respond to many of these problems that we've had heard and that we've heard? How do you respond at this point as staff who is recommending?
 I think the general rule, we'd go back to our recommendation on the land use. We do feel like it's compatible. I think on a rezoning, that's the main thing we would ask you guys to look at is do you feel like it's compatible from a land use standpoint? Some of the comments that were related to flooding and drainage and traffic, those are more development related. We do have development codes and rules that will hopefully address those when the development comes through.
 And so from a compatibility standpoint, it doesn't, when you're looking at compatibility, I think you make your own decision on what you feel is compatible, what is appropriate. In our opinion, compatibility doesn't mean it has to be the same type of building, same type of home, so introducing housing, multi-family housing adjacent to single family with
 We feel like it is appropriate in this particular case, especially given some of the transitional areas to the south. It's certainly not an easy issue. There's a lot of very valid points made on both sides here. So we, as staff, we have also been struggling with this for quite a few months. So it's certainly not an easy task, not an easy vote. Thank you. Thank you.
 I would just like to clear up some assumptions that this is a single-family neighborhood. There's actually fourplexes across the street. In fact, that entire development at the Pines is fourplexes. And so I think it's disingenuous for us to be thinking of this as a single-family neighborhood. Okay. Okay.
 I'll follow up on that just real quickly. The Pines is a very small development, very, very small development in comparison to, like, the Links or, you know, something else of that nature. The Pines is not. I mean, it has a very residential single-family feel to it if you drive through that actual neighborhood. I mean, I've been in that area for a very long time, so. I just get the impression that we're talking about apartments as places where poor people live versus the single-family...
 homes. And, you know, I hear these concerns about crime and that somehow by introducing multifamily housing that we're making this neighborhood less safe. And, you know, we have a lot of development out on the west side in particular that employs low-wage workers, that especially, you know, the fast food restaurants, the service businesses that are out there. And where are those people supposed to live?
 And this is an area that is connected to the trail. In fact, I know quite a few people who live in those areas that actually are able to ride their bike and commute to downtown to their jobs.
 So in that sense, it does have some good connectivity. It's close to an elementary school, which would enable kids to walk to school. I think that we have to get over this bias of single-family homes versus apartments. Not everyone can afford to live in a single-family home. It doesn't suit the variety of lifestyles or family situations or economic situations that our citizens find themselves in, and that we have to—
 look at, you know, I think the drainage concerns are very valid, but we also, this is a large-scale development, so we have our drainage criteria manual, which would apply to this, and would limit the amount of post-development runoff that was allowed from the site. You know, we do have standards that deal with stormwater and with traffic, and
 And, you know, if we're just looking at the rezoning and the neighborhood compatibility, which is what we're supposed to be looking at, then in a sense I agree with planning staff that this is compatible. And so I think that we have to caution, we have to be cautious in how we, you know, look at apartments versus houses. Yes, Alan. I'll follow up. I don't think I heard anyone reference that.
 economic or income status being related to apartments. I definitely don't feel that way. I've lived in several apartments. But when you talk about the drainage issue, I think this is very similar to the Falling Waters area. And we said that the drainage criteria manual wasn't enough in that area. And when you look at this area, it has even more homes in it. It's even more dense. And the problem here, when you talk about bringing in homes
 apartment complexes, whatever it may be. We just know from the past that's the business Lindsey's in. We don't know what they're going to build. But this is a very unwalkable area. I mean, we're not going to introduce a high level of walkability on Dean Solomon overnight. Now, if you go over to Salem Road, now, yeah, you do get into a very walkable area, but with limited connectivity to other areas. So if we're going to talk about linking
 this area to a center of commerce, you know, we've got a long way to go before we get there on Dean Solomon Road. It's not a walkable area.
 It's not walkable, but it is bikeable, and there's a difference between replacing a greenfield site, a wooded hillside adjacent to an impaired waterway, which is a river, versus replacing a golf course, which has terrible infiltration capabilities, as well as the chemicals that they're adding with homes in an infill site inside the box,
 around our city and it's feeding into more of a wetland area that is designed to capture and help
 remove sediment from the watershed so i think we have two different watershed conditions we have two very different infrastructure conditions in terms of accessibility to services and connectivity whether that's to i-540 i would love to see a bus route introduced there but it's certainly easily bikeable and connected to our trail network so i think we've got two very different situations
 Okay, we're going to be back in two weeks on this do we need to continue on or shall we wait? Get a little break. Yeah, all right, so we just leave it right here for two weeks Mr.. Mayor before everybody leaves you might want to tell them where we're gonna meet next meeting yeah No, we're gonna have a bunch of people that might be leaving mayor I can get some information Council chambers is going to be under renovation construction through the month of March and
 So the next city council meeting, March 1st, will take place at the Ray Adams Leadership Center, which is the school board room at 1000 West Bulldog Avenue, which is formerly Stone Street. So if you're coming from the west, you would take Martin Luther King, head it east, turn on Buchanan. It tees into Bulldog Avenue. As soon as you pass the pedestrian...
 protection signs, there's a parking lot on the right. But it will be at the Ray Adams Leadership Center, and the second meeting in March will be at the county quorum court building while this room is being renovated. Which holds about 50 people, probably, or so. So we'll be probably moving in and out in shifts. All right. So with that said, we'll move on to item number eight.
 An ordinance to amend 72.58 off-street parking facilities rules and rights to limit the mayor's authority to assign any city-owned paid parking lots or on-street paid parking spaces within the entertainment district or the closure of city streets for the use of a permitted special event to not more than two days per year without express approval of the City Council. Kip.
 Whereas the mayor is authorized to assign any and all city-owned paid parking lots in the entertainment district parking lot area by special event permit for up to 16 days per calendar year. Whereas multi-day special events at closed parking facilities and city streets significantly impact citizens, businesses, and institutions as well as the quality of life in our community.
 and therefore citizens should have the opportunity for input in the decision-making process and whereas special events that require that request or need to occupy and use such city parking lots or city streets more than two days
 should not only receive the mayor's express approval through the mayor's issuance of a special events permit, but must receive express approval of the City Council for any and all city-owned parking lots or city street closures needed beyond the two-day limit. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, I hereby repeals Section 72.58M and an Act of Replacement 72.58M as shown below. Quote, M, special event permits needed to use city-owned parking lots, paid on-street parking spaces, or to close city streets. Subsection 1, events needing the use of city-owned parking lots for two days or less.
 The Mayor is empowered by the issuance of a special event permit to assign any and all city-owned paid parking lots and some or all on-street paid parking spaces within the Entertainment District parking zone for up to two days per special event for the use of a permitted special event or other necessary reason for not more than a total of 16 days per calendar year.
 Subsection 2. Events requesting the use of city-owned parking lot or on-street paid parking spaces or to close city streets for more than two calendar days in a year, subject to the overall limit of 16 days per calendar year.
 The Mayor may propose, and the City Council may agree to or reject, an expanded special use permit which would authorize a special event to use city-owned paid parking lots or on-street paid parking in the Entertainment District parking zone for more than two and up to five days per year. The Mayor may also propose the closure of city streets for more than two days for a special event.
 The approval and any conditions imposed for such approval by the City Council shall be by City Council resolution. Proposed special event permits shall be evaluated by the City Council on the basis of, but not limited to, weighing the potential benefits and detriments to the community, impact to the public services, including city, schools, transportation, medical services, and the effect on the overall quality of life to residents and businesses.
 Any violation of the City Council required conditions shall subject the special event permit authorization beyond the two days to be voided and withdrawn by the Mayor.
 Okay, Sarah, I believe this is yours. Yes, I've been hearing from a lot of citizens and business owners about some of the adverse impacts of the larger multi-day festivals that we have in this community. And in reviewing that process, realized that there was no opportunity for the public to have a voice in this process. Currently, if a special event meets the basic minimum requirements, then the mayor is authorized to give a permit.
 This would enable us to have a public hearing and hear from the many members of our community about their experiences with our multi-day events and really give a place for public input, just like we welcome public input on our land use policies, our economic development policies, and I think that we should also welcome public input in our events and tourism policies. This...
 was actually initiated by a citizen and local business owner, Mr. Kerry Arcega, if he would like to come up and speak. Okay. Thank you. I also wanted to thank the people who signed the petition to get the ordinance in front of the city council. I got over 800 signatures. Approximately 90% are from Fayetteville residents. I allowed the other people to sign because they're in the county.
 and major events affect them also. The reason I decided to pursue the passage of this ordinance is because after being in business for 25 years in Fayetteville, I know there's a major misunderstanding in the public and with also city officials on how major events affect the city. There's a common belief that
 You bring 1,000 people in, you bring 5,000 people in, 50,000 people in. It helps all the businesses. That is just not the case. And the reason I'm pursuing this is I would like for there to be a public forum so that small businesses can come forward and let them know, let you know how it affects them.
 I think it's a common sense ordinance that allows public input and allows a discussion of these events. It only affects the major events. We're not talking about a day or two. I think it's a reasoned approach to this. Another advantage I think this ordinance will give us, and I got this insight accidentally from one of my customers or one of the people visiting the coffee shops.
 He was in Fayetteville with his wife from Austin. They were considering Fayetteville as a place to retire. He read the petition, and his comment was, oh, it's good that your city is considering this now. He says, in Austin, we have so many festivals downtown that it's becoming maddening to local businesses downtown and residences.
 It's good to have a tool to manage that, and I think that's what this ordinance would give us. It's a proactive way of dealing with it. I think we're going to have to deal with it sooner or later because we're an attractive place for promoters to come and want to have their festivals or rallies.
 So I think it's reasonable to say if you want to have such a big rally as, you know, to take over city streets and parking lots or if you're a smaller rally that's growing, you know, it's your two-day event and now you want to become a three-day event, let's discuss it openly. Let's have an open forum on it. So I hope you consider it favorably and if you have any questions, I'll be happy to ask. Yes, do we have any questions for Mr. Arce? Yes. Any questions? Are they good? All right. Thank you.
 Peter, I asked him to look into parking in the area, so I think you need to hear his report as well when you make your...
 Susan, you can ask him any questions you'd like to ask. Absolutely, Mayor. We did receive some questions from Alderman Tennant related to our existing special events permit process. So if you will allow me, I'd like to hand out a little bit of information on the city's current special events process, walk you through that, help you kind of understand how we currently handle our special event permit requests. You can just give them to the clerks. We'll hand them around.
 Your packets are tabbed for you and in those packets you'll basically find all the information that is available on the city's website related to special events permits, special event permit applications. All the permit applications are fill and print. Try to be as customer friendly as possible to our event applicants. Thank you.
 The first five pages of the event permit packet are the instructions, basically walking the applicant through the various sections of the event permit application. You'll notice on the very front page we do request that applicants submit the permit application more than 21 days in advance of their permit request to allow adequate time for staff to review and consider and make recommendations.
 In the event permit instructions you'll see information on the various types of permit applications. Section 1, which is just general event permit applications. Section 2, which refers to major event applications. And then Section 3, which relates to the noise ordinance variance request process. You'll see contact information, various explanations on the event sections.
 rules related to event permits and then finally contact information on the fifth page of the instruction section on the red tab you'll find the beginning of the special event permit section one which is essentially general contact information secondary contact information event location information event type the
 in the checkbox at the bottom of page one. Description of the event on the second page, event duration in terms of hours and days, and then an important section is the event features section, which is a checkbox section asking the applicant various questions. Is there alcohol at your event? Do you have carnival rides? Are there going to be elevated noise levels as part of your event?
 fireworks, parades, parking lot needs, information about electrical services, restrooms, tents, cooking, all the types of information that are necessary for us to do a complete and thorough application. If any of those boxes are checked in that event features section, that automatically pushes the event applicant to the event.
 to be required to fill out section two of the event application which would be a major what we would call a major Event permit which requires a little bit more information in terms of street closure duration time and location We require a map as part of that
 a section two major event permit application, information around security, emergency response information, types and lists of vendors, alcohol information if applicable, fireworks, electrical services, restrooms, refuse, trash and recycling information. We strongly encourage recycling as part of all of our special event
 And then finally, there's information on a cleanup deposit if applicable, if the event is being held on public city-owned property. On the yellow tab, you'll find the instructions talking about the noise variance portion of the event application. Pretty much any event application that has amplification or live music is going to require a noise variance.
 There's information on the code section related to noise variances, the decibel and time limits related to the various types of use units, residential, commercial, and industrial. And then finally on the light blue tab, the final tab in your packet, you'll find the actual application that the applicant must fill out if they are requesting a noise variance.
 So that's your complete packet available online for applicants who do want to do a special event in the city of Fayetteville. When the parking division at the city acts as the clearinghouse, first receiving that event application from an event applicant, the parking division will review that application for completeness, make sure all the appropriate sections are filled out.
 and then we'll send that out to other various divisions and departments within the city that may be affected by the special event permit with a request for review on calendaring and the technical merits of the special event request.
 The first review that is done relates to when the event is scheduled and how that event relates to other events that are scheduled within the city. So, for example, is this a football game weekend that we're trying to schedule another major event in the city of Fayetteville? Those two events may not be compatible.
 Another example might be a request for the use of the West Avenue parking lot across the street from the Walton Arts Center on a weekend when they have major events scheduled and are expecting to utilize that parking lot for access for their patrons. Those two events may not be compatible from a calendaring perspective. So we review the timing of the event and then we review the technical nature of the event in terms of the street closure. Does it allow for adequate public safety and emergency response to the event?
 Does the event request the use of a city-owned parking lot and or a free parking designation as part of the event? We, of course, look at the noise variance application. What levels of noise are being emitted by the event?
 Where is that? How is that noise being managed and potentially mitigated? How are they monitoring the noise to make sure that they are staying in compliance with what their application states? Fireworks, of course, we're looking, fire marshal's office is looking at that portion. And then, of course, any other life security, life safety and security items identified by fire and police are all reviewed as part of the technical review of that event application.
 The parking division compiles all of that information and feedback that we receive from the other departments and divisions, and we provide that feedback in one of three ways to the event applicant. We either approve the event application as is, which is common for many of our smaller events that only fill out section one of the event application.
 Many, most of our larger events that are required to fill out section 2 and 3 receive approval with conditions. So there's certain stipulations that the event applicant must meet and that we check up on as part of their event production.
 And then the third and final outcome may be denial of the event application, which has happened. For example, we had an event application in the past year and a half for a helicopter landing at midnight on the Fayetteville Square. We didn't feel like the noise associated with that was compatible with the residential units near the square. If you'll recall, last year the initial slide, the city application that the city received, was also denied.
 they were able to work on their issues and come back and actually eventually gain approval for that particular event.
 Event organizers are responsible for communicating with affected members of the public as part of their event. So if there's a street closure or if there's any need to remove vehicles from paid parking spaces, either on street or in parking lots, the event organizers are required to communicate directly to the impacted public.
 And then we also encourage and facilitate dialogue between event applicants and members of the public who may have concerns about that particular event.
 A recent example with the Slide the City request last year, some of our churches along Dixon Street were concerned about parking impacts with the Sunday slide. And so we had the Slide the City event producers work directly with the churches to sign and staff the church parking lots so that no one attending the Slide the City event would park in any of the church parking lots.
 With that, I'd be glad to answer any other questions that you all may have related to the event. I will add one item that Alderman Tenet asked a question about in his email, which was, does the city actually provide approvals for multi-day festivals for multiple years or does it do it each calendar year? We do that each calendar year. We do not give advance approvals.
 So our largest festival, Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, for instance, has not submitted an application for 2016 yet. We will receive that typically sometime around mid-year, June or July. We do have one application pending that is for multiple days, and it's from the Walton Arts Center. And it's for a...
 a planned event for the reopening of the center after construction. Our request is for multiple days. So I just want to make that clear. I think that's the only other question. Alderman Tenney, you asked about what paperwork and so Peter has provided that and what our processes are and I think he's outlined it exactly how it works. The final sign-offs are by the Mayor
 Street closures can be done by the police chief for public safety reasons without the mayor's approval or they can be done by the mayor for the event and the parking lot approvals are done by the mayor as part of the ordinance for the 16 allowed days. That's the other check that we do do is to make sure that when a request comes through that we're not exceeding the 16 days because we're restricted in our bond covenants to that limit. I would also just add that
 In 2015, the parking division facilitated 71 event approvals through the process that I outlined, and as of today we have 23 event applications for 2016.
 Are those multi-day events that would be affected by this ordinance? No, those are total events that go through our event approval process. On average, how many multi-day events that would be affected by this ordinance do we see each year? Looking back, since 2013, there would have been one event affected in 2013, one event affected in 2014, two events that would have been affected last year.
 As part of the ordinance and thus far this year we have one event application that Don mentioned that would be impacted. Yes, yes. So first of all, I brought this to you all pretty late and my apologies, but you did an excellent job as normal as a city staff and getting this information together. So thank you very much. I just think it's important to get an idea of the process that is in place if we are going to make a decision to change it, essentially saying that the process is not
 what we want and we want to change it. So thank you very much for that. I was gonna ask the question about the multi-day events and thank you to Alderman Marsh for that question. I guess my only other question would be, and I don't know if you can really put a number to this, but it sounds like that there are multiple staff members in multiple different groups in city staff that put in a lot of time on
 vetting out these events before they're even brought to a final recommendation or whatever it is for the mayor to do the final final sign off. Is there is there an average time frame that you can think of hours wise? That's that's either one of you, Don or Peter, that it might. It sounds like each division has to spend time and then cumulatively spend.
 the entire group spends time. It really depends on the size of the event. So the events that we're talking about in this case, the police department is probably the most time-consuming impact because they deal with...
 the noise ordinance variance, the request for street closures, access for ingress and egress. They actually have a special events coordinator in the police department that Chief Tabor may want to speak to who actually will work with the event organizer. They tend to be the coordinating point on these large events that are utilized to obtain information and to make sure that we have the proper requirements.
 There are other single-day events that could be time-consuming, like a marathon where we're doing road closures that impact much larger areas, or trail closures or 26-mile related events. So some of those could impact transportation division or parks department significantly if we have actual closures related to those. But most of the time is spent on larger events. I just wanted to make sure that...
 that I was comfortable and that that citizens heard my opinion is that these these are fully vetted these are not just somebody throws out a fills out a piece of paper and somebody rubber stamps them I mean it sounds like to me that there's a lot of City time put into this and there should be but I just wanted to verify all that so thank you to the city staff and to you Don for that information
 Yes. Peter, at what point in this event application process is public input solicited or accommodated? There is no formal request for public input as part of the process, but as I mentioned, when we do receive any public input on particular events, we help facilitate that dialogue between the event applicant and the public so that those items that the public raises can be addressed.
 typically we have pretty good luck with that process i guess um you know when i see a petition with over 800 signatures on it of people who are concerned and want input into the event process to me this this ordinance is about should we include public input in this process and i think the answer is yes um you know these large scale events affect everyone in our community especially especially the very large events that
 that impact a lot of non-participants to the events, and I think that's where we're running into issues. What got me thinking about this more and more was after attending a Main Street, Arkansas conference, they did a conference on sustainable tourism, and they talked a lot about the importance of maximizing high-yield, low-impact tourism. And they gave an example similar to Carrie's example of Austin, but they used Fort Lauderdale
 And when you think of Fort Lauderdale, you're typically going to think of spring break. And, you know, for a long time that was going to be the spring break capital of the world. And what they found was that the type of tourists that that was attracting were packing four to six people in a hotel room, buying cheap drinks.
 food and drink from vendors instead of supporting local businesses, that they were requiring a lot of extra time from police and fire. And that that was not a sustainable tourism strategy for their community, and they've since rebranded. Because they did a lot of research and they found that cultural and heritage visitors spent on average $994 per trip. Whereas other type of visitors spent only $661 per trip.
 If you look at the recent report on Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, they were showing average expenditures of $441 per trip, and so I think by looking at some of these metrics and as
 as well as evaluating the impact of these events on public safety on our schools on transportation i don't know if you were able to read the email from the gentleman who was in a wheelchair who when they disrupted transit services for the university last year for one of our large events he was not able to take the bus to class and he actually had to have his caretakers push him from davidson street all the way up to the university of arkansas which is quite an ordeal so
 So these impacts do, or these events do have very significant impacts on our community. And I think that it's our public's right to be heard and to have their input incorporated into this decision-making process. Can I ask one more question? I'm sorry. Yes. This is actually to Alderman Marsh, and it's just a question that I thought of first. So it's one thing to say that we need a public input session. Mm-hmm.
 But why then take it another step that the council needs to give permission as opposed to having a public input session and leaving it in the same decision-making capability? Well, as we are our people's elected representatives, and just like tonight when we listen to people and then we vote, by bringing this into the council, then that provides the input session and allows us to respond to that feedback. Anything else? Yes, Alan. No.
 I do appreciate public input, which is why I would like for us to take this new information that staff has presented, along with the ordinance that Sarah has presented, and think about those two things over the next two weeks personally, unless there's some rush to consider this and vote tonight.
 Okay. Yeah, I mean, I would ask unless there's a pressing festival that needs this decided or something. I mean, in the next two weeks, I wouldn't have a problem with it. We have one. I think it's not due until. I mean, obviously, until the ordinance changes, we're going to operate under the existing ordinance. Right. I'm just making sure we're not missing anything. I agree with you, by the way. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Well, I'm going to take some public comment because there's a lot of folks out here, I'm sure, that wants to weigh in on this. But just keep in mind, it's probably going to come back in two weeks anyway. So, who'd like to be first? My name's Renee Hunt, and I own a business on Dixon Street, French Metro Antiques. I've been there. It's my 13th year on Dixon Street. Very grateful to be there. I also am, I've lived in Fayetteville 30 years, lived in the Historic District for 30 years. So, I am a downtown, midtown girl.
 I'm just really looking for the opportunity for public input. I think that's my main concern is as a business owner, there's maybe that doesn't own a bar or a restaurant. There's been a little bit of squelching. I'm not really free to express how I really feel about festivals that close public parking and public parking lots and street parking streets for two days or more.
 More than two days. You know we're not allowed to really say too much because we're the minority I'd say the small business owners the book street owners The little boutique shops actually I could even talk for some of the fine restaurants on Dixon Street But they're their sales go way down. I have personal experience with that and
 So I just feel like we aren't really have the freedom of speech to express. There's no place for us to have a public forum for the people that aren't involved in the large-scale festivals that close the streets for more than two days. So I'm just looking for an opportunity to express. Citizen representation, and you're my representatives. Thank you. Who else? Yes.
 Mayor Jordan, members of the City Council, I'm Joe Fennell. Been on Dixon Street since 1980 and president of the Dixon Street Merchants Association. Dixon Street Merchants Association would like to express our overwhelming opposition to the proposed amendment to the Fayetteville City Council regarding 7258, commonly referred to as the Festival Ordinance. At our February 8th meeting, we discussed this proposed Festival Amendment
 During our discussion, numerous objections were raised to this proposed amendment and became evident that our group was overwhelmingly opposed to this proposal. We felt it was important for us to take a position on this issue. Dixon Street Merchants Association conducted an official vote. I think you all got a copy of this today. The results of our vote were 17 against the proposed amendment and one for the proposed amendment.
 We feel that the existing ordinance and the procedures in place for permitting festivals are not only effective, but are already representative of the democratic process. We see no need to make changes to this process as all festivals which impact parking are currently required to go through the formal permitting process. We also believe that Dixon Street is a place where all law-abiding people
 are and should be welcomed, and that this amendment, if enacted, could unfairly target a specific group of festival patrons for their affiliation with a particular hobby, group, or lifestyle. This is definitely not a message that we agree with, and it's not a message that we feel we should be sending out to potential future patrons of Dixon Street and Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 We sincerely appreciate your support for Dixon Street and for all the merchants, and we hope that you'll join us in voting against this proposed amendment. You know, being on Dixon Street for as long as I have, there are businesses down there that don't do as well as others. As most of you know, I've owned a couple of them. I can tell you straight up, Jose's made a bunch of money.
 It's the hardest $100,000 in four days I've ever earned in my life. Okay? But I also own a restaurant called Bordino's. And I can honestly tell you that Bikes, Blues and Barbecue does nothing for my cash register. But I'm not worried about my cash register. I'm worried about what I feel personally is good for Dixon Street. Okay? I don't ride a motorcycle.
 I don't care to ride a motorcycle, but I do believe that what Bikes, Blues and Barbecue has brought to Fayetteville and in Northwest Arkansas is big. And it helps a lot of people. At the same time, I'm not naive enough to not understand that some people do not benefit. I can also tell you as one of the creators of Chili Pepper Festival, cross-country festival,
 that chili pepper doesn't benefit a whole lot of people either, except high school runners in northwest Arkansas to the tune of $480,000 in the last 25 years. So when you start talking about the proposed amendments on the table, it's not about the likes of the Ozarks, it's not about any of these other festivals, it's specifically about bikes, blues, and barbecue.
 And I take exception to that because I sit down there and I go through that grind. And like I said, some of it's good and some of it's bad. But I do believe it's for a great cause. And I do believe it does good things for Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I do also believe that there's three other cities up there that benefit immensely from it. That Harrison, Arkansas benefits immensely from it.
 If you drive around northwest Arkansas when bikes, blues, and barbecues going on, it's affecting a whole lot of places. Okay? Some good and some bad. So I just would ask you all this evening to really think about this proposed amendment. I do thank...
 that the democratic process is served. I don't believe that anybody has an advantage. I don't believe anybody gets to have their, you know, have a better position than another festival and I do appreciate all of the language we heard earlier this evening. So, yeah, 17 to 1 is the way we voted and I can honestly tell you that
 Probably the majority of those 17 that voted for it don't really see a lot of dollars. Okay? But if you're on Dixon Street, then you need to be on Dixon Street for everybody. If you're down there thinking about yourself, you probably need to be somewhere else. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this tonight? Okay.
 I have something to ask. Yeah, I'm sorry. Joe, could I just ask you a question? I think bottom line what I'm hearing you say is you think that this would have a chilling effect on potential activity. People would not want to consider Fayetteville in the future because of this additional burden? No. I didn't think I insinuated that. I'm trying to get to the bottom line of the argument.
 The bottom line of the argument is, I just think that this proposed amendment is structured strategically against one festival. It has nothing to do with the end of the festival. I mean, it just doesn't. I mean, how many days is the life of the Ozarks? Is it more than one day? Yeah, it's two, three, or four, right? What about the people out there that don't believe in Santa Claus, okay?
 Okay, so that's all I'm saying is it you know if if we run off bikes blues and barbecues It's gonna go to downtown Springdale and all those bikers are still going to come to Dixon Street It's gonna go to Rogers it already's in Rogers. It's in Bentonville. It's in Springdale. It's everywhere. I mean it's here It's just whether we in Fayetteville decide to still be the host It's not going anywhere
 You know? And if we're talking about dollars, one thing I would ask you to do as a restaurateur in Fayetteville, Arkansas, when we have Razorback football games in town, you think that's... There's a whole lot of people don't like Razorback football games either, because you know what? They can't drive around town. And the noise of the stadium bothers them. You know, we're all bothered by all sorts of things. But what I'm bothered about is tailgating.
 Tailgating is the biggest disaster to the restaurant industry that there is. Why do we let people just set up tents all around football stadiums all over the world? Why don't we, why don't they just come to restaurants and spend money? It's 75,000 people in the stadium. You know how many of them go to tailgating? 95,000. Okay? And then when they get out of the game, what do we do? What do we do? What do our law enforcement agencies do in this city?
 They take 75,000 people out of that football stadium and they push them out of Fayetteville as fast as they can. Why don't we keep those dollars here? That's what I'm passionate about. Okay? Now, I'm upset about that. You guys are probably not in the restaurant business. You don't understand that. When we take 75,000 people out of a football stadium and the priority is to get them on the interstate and get them out of town, what do we think? And we need to drive sales tax revenues.
 not run sales tax out of town? How much property tax does the University of Arkansas pay? Thank you. You want to ask him a question? Mayor, I want to go on record. I don't believe in Santa Claus.
 Okay, hang on Ben, I think Sarah had a question for Joe. Well, it was not a question so much as that I agree with Mr. Finnell on the whole thing with the Razorback game and funneling the traffic out of town. And I think by having public input, we have the opportunity to get these ideas in the public sphere and actually turn them into something. So I see this as not a way to stop festivals, but to improve festivals. And so I just wanted to add that to it.
 All right, Dan, my name is Ben Harrison I just want to throw my two cents in it seems like you guys are probably gonna sit on this for two weeks Is it possible? Yes, bring both sides of this argument together have the public input session But still leave it up to city staff, you know make the in decision instead of the City Council I mean is that possible?
 This is up to the city council on what they want to do. I mean, there can always be amendments to this proposed amendment. I just think that would be amicable for both sides to not give all the power to you guys but still allow for public input. Thanks. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor and ladies and gentlemen of the council, unfortunately a number of years ago a former chief of police
 You might want to introduce yourself. Huh? Introduce yourself. My name's Kenneth Morton, okay? I'm a local attorney, and what I'm about to say is how I got involved with Black's Blues Barbecue, and that's the former police chief, Richard Watson, called me up one day, and all of y'all that know Richard Watson, he tells you something, and you better do it, or at least back then. And Richard said, Morton, you're going to help me get a 501c3 set up for a new entity called Black's Blues Barbecue. Okay.
 I said, yes, sir, Chief. And so he got me involved then, and I've been involved since then. And, you know, certainly I've got a number of things to say, but if the council's going to carry it over, certainly I don't want to take, I know it's late, and I don't want to take up a bunch of y'all's time. I would like to point out one thing that Joe brought up, which I probably wasn't going to say tonight, or maybe not at all. We...
 have always wanted it to help Fayetteville. The board members do. I think all the board members are from the Fayetteville area. Even though that we are getting, and this is just a thought for the council members, even though we are regularly getting offers, which are pretty good, from two cities north of us to move it up there.
 And what I'm going to say now is I just want you to think about this until we get together again next time and I'll finish. We, each year, between Fayetteville Police Department and firemen, we have agreed and we pay all their overtime pay. We paid $40,000 last year, roughly $30,000 to the Fayetteville police department.
 and roughly $10,000 to the Federal Fire Department. We also give other money to those departments. We also hire to help their officers. Instead of hiring security people, we hire their officers. It's off-duty. We spend anywhere from $10,000 to $30,000 a year on that. And the point I want to make is...
 since this thing started um if this event got moved and we don't want to move it okay but if it got moved because we could not deal with a two-day event because of vendors that we get in here it just it just wouldn't work if it got moved you're still going to have the same situation every night on dixon street because they're all used to going to dixon street and it's not a festival and what's going to happen is the city's going to have to pay
 all those expenses for overtime for policemen and firemen that's down there to try to control that crowd. And we're going to be spending our money somewhere else if we should move.
 And we're talking about probably $40,000, $50,000 a year that the city's going to have to bear. It's not a threat. I mean, if we get down to a two-day, we can't make it function here because of the vendors that we bring in. They expect a minimum of three to four days to be able to come in, and we bring some high-level vendors in. I mean, it's like I'm going to talk about major Fortune 500 companies. And so I think everybody needs...
 to think about that because the event will go on okay it will go on it's too far gone to stop but if it goes on certainly we love feville and we prefer it being federal and we're not threatening but we just can't we can't do it on two two days okay and if it goes on you're still going to have a lot of expense on dixon street which we're not going to be involved in and
 The money's going to go elsewhere, okay? And the last thing I'll say is that in the time that it's been in existence, and of course the first few years, quite honestly, a lot of money was not made. But since it's been in existence, our sole purpose was to give the money back to local charities, and it's given to local charities. Most of them are in Fayetteville, Arkansas, okay?
 And over that period of time, we've given in between $1.3 and $1.5 million to local charities. And certainly, I think that every person that's on the board and every person that does the work except our executive staff that we hire, executive director that takes year-round efforts, gets zero. We don't want anything. We want to do it now.
 And maybe there's a misconception we're wanting to do it for some other reason than to help Febble, but we want to do it to help Febble and Northwest Arkansas. And we give our time. We give a substantial amount of time. And I'm talking about professionals probably give us 200, 300, 400 hours a year of their time to this. And certainly we'd like to see it continue. And honestly, it will continue somewhere if y'all don't want it.
 then it will continue somewhere. And I hope it's in Feb. We want it to be in Feb. But that's a decision we can't make. You find people make that, and I'll go over some more stuff, you know, at the next meeting. And thank you for your time tonight. All right. Thank you. Who else? My name's Tom Overby. I have a business at 211 North Block and live 1855 West Pratt. I really hate to keep you all here. I'm going to try to be real brief.
 The thing that I have heard over and over and over again from folks is that the events that occur, there's no way for a businessman or a citizen to easily make a comment. Now, if William says that people can talk to the mayor, you say we can talk to this
 That may be true, but it takes somebody with some gumption to get up and say, oh, is there an application? Those things are, I had to go sit down and have a request to get a couple years' worth of applications to go over them. It's difficult. It's not easy for a citizen to go do that. If you have a meeting on your agenda and it's published, they have a place to come and raise questions.
 We went to the Block Street Business Association meeting last week. They have a policy of not taking a position publicly, unlike the Dixon Street Merchant Association. But the majority of the people there said that that is the worst week they have for their businesses every time bikes, blues, and barbecue occurs.
 This is not aimed at Bikes, Blues and Barbecue. Yes, they feel like they're a target. If they're really good for the city of Fayetteville, let them come forth and explain to you what they do good, get your approval and go on. And if people who are adversely affected have the opportunity to come explain their issues, then maybe there's a meeting somewhere in the middle. I'm not sure you want to put administrative staff in that position. You guys are our representative. We elect you. You should hear our issues.
 In discussions with city staff on these issues, and we sat down and had a meeting with everybody involved in the process to educate ourselves. At that time, they agreed with us that Roots Festival would be covered by this, Joe Martin would be covered by this, Lights of the Ozarks would be covered by this. And maybe more importantly, the event that's not yet knocked on your door could be covered.
 An event, as Kerry pointed out, that is one or two days that may grow to something larger, or if some really large-scale event knocks on your door. If you don't have a procedure in place, you're going to have trouble backing up and putting it in place. One of the things I hear from many, many, many, many, many, many, many of my friends are that they leave town during some of the major events because they're impacted by it.
 They remodel their stores, they lay off employees, they shut their doors. There's one 17-man law firm that shuts its doors on the Friday of Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue. Three of the people in my scope of my arms here tell me they leave town during Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue. I don't know, there may be more than three, but I know three who've told me personally. If we bring 400,000 people to this town of 80,000 people, that's a five-to-one ratio. Obviously,
 Only a few of the 400,000 are from this town. Does it make sense to have 400,000 people coming to this town with no review other than an administrative review, which is a great job. It's their good form. They do a good job. I don't question that. There's no place for other people to say anything. I think there should be a procedure. That's it. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. Who else would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I assume we're going to hold this for two weeks. Mayor, I do want to make one comment so that it doesn't appear that staff is giving misinformation. The Roots Festival, Joe Martin's, and Lights of the Ozarks would have been items if this ordinance wasn't restricted to the entertainment district, which is how it is written currently. Roots Festival is occurring on East Street or Block—
 East Street. Joe Martin is both downtown and in the entertainment district, and lives with the Ozarks is on the square. So the way that it's currently written, those would not fall under the scope of this ordinance, and that is why you receive different information. And the only one that would, would be...
 Well, Walton Arts Center and Bikes Blues Barbecue. We have had events. We had the LPGA concert that closed for two and a half days for setup and the actual event occurred one day. This is not unprecedented in that area, but I just want to make it clear because staff tries to give the best and most accurate information and it wasn't until we realized that it was restricted to the entertainment district that those other events were excluded.
 Well, in that case, I would like to work with our city attorney to develop an amendment to make sure that this applies to our entire city and not just our entertainment district in order to be fair. So you said you wanted to make it citywide? Yes, not just the entertainment district. Any large-scale event. Well, the reason it wasn't the entertainment district is because that particular provision deals with how many days, 16 days that the mayor is allowed...
 to designate free parking in the entertainment district. And that's why that's there. I'll look and see if we need to have a different subsection if you want to try to make it citywide. I just would like to approach all events on an even playing field, and I feel that we need to have public input on all of these large events, whether they're in the entertainment district or not. And, you know, I think that...
 A point that was made is that this bikes, blues, and barbecue has gotten too big to stop it now, and that it's going to be here. And I think that that's why we do need an event review process before events get so large that we are powerless to have control over them. And so I think that that is another reason that this is really important. Thank you. Okay. All right. One announcement, Steve, ahead.
 Mayor, a couple of announcements. The Washington County and the City of Fayetteville issued a burn ban effective today due to the conditions. So the prescribed burns for Woolsey Wet Prairie Sanctuary and the Lake Fayetteville Cali Prairie have been canceled until this ban has been lifted. And we also want to encourage all citizens to make sure they do not burn within the city limits until the burn ban has been lifted due to the high risk of fire.
 Second item is the City Board of Health relays a flu advisory from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued as an official health advisory about the flu season and seasonal flu. Apparently, there is a rampant expansion of that, and citizens are encouraged to take precautionary measures related to contacting the flu. Okay.
 And then I want to make an announcement that we made earlier this evening that this council chambers will begin its renovations beginning in March and will not be accessible for meetings. So the first meeting is March the 1st.
 It will take place at the Ray Adams Leadership Center in the school board room at 1000 West Bulldog Avenue. The city will have, and the city clerk will have the directions and information on our postings for meetings so that citizens know, and we've done press releases and we'll continue to do press information so citizens know where to find us on March 1st. The second meeting in March will be in the Washington County Quorum Court room where the Quorum Court meetings are held.
 We do want to encourage citizens that come to either of these meetings that there may be less
 seating in the actual chamber areas in these locations than they're used to and so as items come forward for those who aren't coming for all the items but coming for specific items when those items are done if the leads or other citizens have an opportunity to come and speak to those items we are adding extra seating capacity in them where we can but they are limited
 due to fire marshal space ratings uh in case the question was asked why didn't we pick a different location like the town center it's because it was not available yes alan you had an announcement board four meeting february 29th uh 6 p.m room 111 of city hall that's a week from this coming monday okay anything else thank you all we're adjourned