All right, I'm going to call this special city council meeting and it's very special. February 18th, 2009. Sondra, would you call the roll? Gray. Here. Till. Here. Cook. Here. Rhodes. Farrell. Here. Lucas. Here. Lewis. Here. Mayor. Mayor Jordan. Yeah. Here. That would work tonight. Join me.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. First order of business tonight is...
 Number one, Ice Storm 2009 Disaster Recovery Fund, a resolution approving a budget adjustment appropriating $4 million to the replacement and disaster recovery fund for Ice Storm 2009 disaster recovery and granting the mayor the authority to authorize temporary loan up to $1 million from the general fund to address cash flow needs pending federal and state reimbursement.
 I'm going to go ahead and read the body of that since it's special. Be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves a budget adjustment appropriating $4 million to the Replacement and Disaster Recovery Fund for Ice Storm 2009 Disaster Recovery. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby grants the Mayor the authority to authorize a temporary loan of up to $1 million from the general fund to address cash flow needs pending federal and state reimbursement.
 All right. This has been a pretty long day. We've been here since folks have been in this room since 8 o'clock this morning. They quit about 6 tonight. Came in at 6 this morning, so we, chief staff, came in about 6.30. So we've been here a while today.
 Who, Paul, do you want to go ahead and explain the? PAUL HANSON- I'll go ahead and explain this. The first thing we have to do before we can entertain any contracts, of course, we have to have a budget or a special appropriation for those contracts.
 What I'm requesting is to authorize $4 million in the disaster and replacement fund. This would be money for haulers and monitors for the contract for debris removal. It would also allocate $300,000 to reimburse general fund departments or other fund departments for expenses already incurred. It will give me approximately $100,000.00.
 in miscellaneous or contingency in case we would need it. One thing I wanted to make clear from the beginning is these are all estimates. We don't really know the exact amount of debris we have out there. We really don't know how many trees we may have to remove, so I may have to come back and request additional appropriations at another point in time. But this is the best estimate that we have at this point in time. Again, this would give us money for hauling contract,
 for a monitor to monitor those hauling, the hauling companies. What I have estimated the costs to the city already are and $100,000 in contingency if I need to move shortly between the two. The second portion would allow the mayor to authorize me to move $1 million on a temporary basis to the replacement and disaster fund
 from the general fund. That would be strictly a short-term loan in case I need it for cash flow purposes to accommodate any bills before we get a reimbursement from the federal government, from the federal or state government, that is.
 and this would supply enough for the cash flow needs for the whole project if it comes down to that. Once I would make that loan, once we would do that loan, if and when that's necessary, and I wouldn't foresee it to be necessary at this point in time, but it could be, I will report that to the committee the next available agenda session, continue to report the status of that until it's fully reimbursed. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have? Okay.
 Any? I have a question. Okay. You probably said it, but the $4 million is coming from where? Okay. Where is it coming from? Okay. It's moving from where? The $4 million is based on revenue, and I didn't say that, actually. $500,000 would be the city's portion, okay? That would come from the replacement and disaster fund. $500,000 is a reimbursement from the state emergency management system.
 The balance, $3 million is from FEMA, their 75% portion. Any other questions? No.
 I can't believe I'm doing this, but I would move approval. Second. Second. I mean, you know, on budget. Yeah, I do. Getting in the kitty. Yeah, coming out of the kitty, yes. We have a motion and a second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Senator, would you call the roll? Right. Okay.
 Yes. Teal? Yes. Cook? Yes. Farrell? Yes. Lucas? Yes. Lumet? Yes. Okay. Number two, solid resources incorporated. Resolution to approve an agreement for storm debris monitoring service with solid resources incorporated in the amount of $483,690 plus a contingency in the amount of $96,914.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville solicited requests for proposals for storm debris monitoring services as required by the Federal Emergency Management Administration, FEMA. And whereas a selection committee including an alderman and numerous city staff painstakingly reviewed several applicants and eventually voted by an approved rating system to select Solid Resources Incorporated as the most qualified, capable, and affordable applicant to best supply storm debris monitoring services for the citizens of Fayetteville.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw hereby approves the selection of solid resources incorporated for storm debris monitoring services for the City of Fayetteville. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw hereby approves the agreement for storm debris monitoring services attached as Exhibit A with solid resources incorporated in the amount of $483,690 plus a contingency of $96,914. Paul, Don, somebody?
 First, I want to thank the council for coming tonight. To give you a quick update on what has taken place, beginning yesterday, we opened bids at 2 p.m. We had eight responders to this RFP. The committee began meeting yesterday at 3 o'clock.
 and continued at 8 a.m. this morning, and we wrapped up with our final vote and dialogue literally about three minutes after 6. In this particular contract on the committee, so you'll know who was on it, it was myself, Terry Gulley, our Director of Transportation, Carol Hill, Solid Waste, David Juergens with Water and Sewer. And the reason that three of those are important is each of their crews have been involved with handling.
 the tree sensitivity that we experience in the City of Fayetteville. On the accounting side, we had Paul Becker, our Director of Finance, and Marsha Hartwick, our Accounting Manager, who helped us.
 look at ratios and cost and unit pricing, et cetera. And then we had our fleet manager, Dennis Pratt, who has been coordinating our equipment requirements, understands the equipment that have been needed in the process that have been requested from our own services to help us in that assessment. And then we had Alderman Farrell as the council's representative on the team.
 The monitoring debris contract was a very tough choice. We actually, it was the one that we kept going through. We had subsequent interviews. We did a short list from our eight down to four. We phone interviewed four of the firms that we had done our initial cut with. And then we narrowed that down further to two.
 and because we kept going back and forth between the two and ultimately our selection is solid resources Inc and they correct me if I'm wrong they were the monitoring service that handled the Tulsa ice storm in Oklahoma the they were also pricing wise
 We had similar pricing on our last two between the rates, but ultimately the supervisory or management fees, they had a lower rate than the other provider that we had narrowed it down to.
 So, the monitoring services, their responsibilities are to ensure that the debris that is being taken is, in fact, debris that qualifies for FEMA reimbursement. Our public right of ways, they make sure that we're not in the middle of people's yards pulling wood out, which would not account. They do the tracking, some of the strengths that the committee felt of
 the selected provider was their technology, their ability to be able to attach photos and GPS coordinates and the tracking which would help in the FEMA reimbursement. Their ice debris experience, many of the contractors in the monitoring side had
 prior extensive experience, but in the end, one of the areas that we looked at evaluating was who had ice debris. They all had hurricane debris. They had tornado debris, but who specifically had ice? Not that it's more complicated, but more specifically aligns with what we're dealing with here in the city of Fayetteville.
 solid resources inc had more ice debris direct experience our second choice was not the primary in any single ice debris project I know that in lieu of time we
 the actual packet that you all have. It was the response to the RFP. It was very comprehensive. They talked about the ability, because of that experience, their prior work with FEMA, one of the largest contracts that they managed was it?
 I think it was a East Coast cleanup, which was a $24 million project. The city was able, in that case, to recoup 100% of the expenses that it thought that it should. And so we got great references from their work. We were...
 we were cognizant in our selection of our monitoring service to make sure that we while we wanted someone who has the ability to work with people we didn't want someone whose relationships were too close Lee tied with the debris hauler so that we had any kind of
 brother-in-law deal if you will between the volume of debris that might be being taken to the site because if it was disqualified for FEMA purposes then ultimately the citizens would end up paying for that we also look to see which provider had worked most closely and had the longest record with helping cities when there were disputes between
 expenditures that might have been eliminated from FEMA and to help the city get the proper reimbursement and be a partner with the city to do that as opposed to leaving it all to the city accounting staff and they had a strong history of that as well so that's our so not only do we have in the monitoring contractors pricing for field monitors pricing for monitors at the debris sites
 management, oversight, and clerical responsibilities for the tracking of the work tickets and things of that nature. And so where the real difference ultimately came down after we evaluated the technology difference, the prior ice experience difference in terms of
 experience, capacity to perform. We felt there were separation in those areas and then the pricing was identical on the field monitor piece, but the supervisory management pricing was different, less expensive. Any questions? Yes. And David will tell you about the contract piece. While we produced the contract very quickly today, we actually used for this project a modification of our standard engineering contract.
 So it was familiar documentation that was reviewed by the city attorney's office. It was standard engineering contract modified by what went out in the request for proposal that was approved by FEMA and the Corps of Engineers. So all of the language was completely consistent with documents that were approved. And the other party,
 Also reviewed the contract and they had their attorneys review it and their approved contracting officer or signatory officer Read it as well, and we do in fact have signatures back I think we got the signature on this one back at 620 this evening Took that long because they wanted to make sure that that their side completely staffed the contract as well and that we had full agreement On both sides so we do have a fully signed contract, but didn't get it in time to make copies for everybody so I apologize for that but
 I do want to add one final thing, and that is this group, Solid Resources, Inc., is also the monitoring service for the City of Rogers, so that you know that. And the other determining factor that we asked was the ability for the monitoring service to scale, because when we interviewed one of the respondents today on the debris haul side, one of the things that we heard were that they had –
 equipment waiting on being able to get enough monitors to be able to implement and use that equipment within the city that they were operating in and so it was our concern that we would have someone who would be able to scale and scale quickly we specifically asked that question of our two finalists
 One communicated that they were able to deploy immediately, that they had already been running ads locally, screening and hiring because they were doing the City of Rogers contract and had the number of monitors that we anticipate will be needed available as immediately as tomorrow and the other said it would be a two to three day ramp up of hiring selection. So that was another small dividing point. Any questions?
 I respect everybody's opinion on that committee for sure. You all have done a good job putting it. It sounds like you've been thorough on it. Thank you. I feel good about it. Thank you. Move to pass the resolution. Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I'll entertain a motion and a second. So moved. I did. Okay. Second.
 all right we have a motion in a second right yes teal yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, number three, DRC Emergency Services, LLC, a resolution to approve a contract for storm debris removal services with DRC Emergency Services, LLC, in the amount of $2,419,185.64 plus a contingency of $400,000.
 Whereas after the devastating ice storm of January 26th and 27th, 2009, President Obama declared much of northwest Arkansas, including the city of Fayetteville, a disaster area, eligible for FEMA assistance. And whereas the number, the amount of downed trees, broken limbs, and other debris throughout Fayetteville is so massive that Fayetteville's employees and equipment cannot handle the tremendous job of removing such debris as well.
 without hiring an independent contractor. And whereas the cost of the debris removal will be largely offset by reimbursements from FEMA and the State of Arkansas,
 and whereas the City of Fayetteville properly solicited requests for proposals from independent contractors desiring to be awarded a contract for storm debris removal services and whereas the City Selection Commission, Committee, painstakingly reviewed proposals from almost 20 companies and selected by use of an approved rating point system the applicant proposal which was the most qualified, capable and economical company to pick up, remove and reduce the wood chips, reduce two wood chips, the debris caused by the ice storm.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved to the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the selection of DRC Emergency Services, LLC, as the most qualified, capable, and economical company to be awarded the contract for storm debris removal services.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fairlark-Sauce hereby awards the contract for storm debris removal services attached as Exhibit A, which includes all terms within the project manual to DRC Emergency Services LLC in the amount of $2,419,185.64 plus a contingency of $400,000.
 Well, the same group evaluated this RFP as well. We had, I think, a total of 18 respondents because one was listed twice in the first sheet. Of those 18, we narrowed down to five in our short list. Those five were each contacted with interviews, fund interviews.
 pretty extensive what was their plan how would they communicate to citizens in terms of what streets we would be covering this the number of crews because it was important in terms of our evaluating what we would need on the monitoring side their prior ice experience their
 We asked about if any of them had any pending litigation. We had a pretty extensive assessment of each of these. Again, we got some really strong bids. We had respondents that had handled very large projects like the World Trade Center cleanup all the way through to the large hurricanes. We've had tornado, ice damage, et cetera.
 Ultimately, the committee selected DRC, and they were also the lowest in price. Not by much, but they were the lowest. The...
 The big issue that we had on that was that we really drilled in on was what was the plan for attacking the city in terms of the four quadrants, how quickly could they start, how long did they think it would take, could we ramp it up to have quicker removal. We were looking for, we asked all of our five finalists if they were interested in all four quadrants or in a single quadrant because the committee's assessment was ultimately made to be.
 preference of one provider for the entire city in terms of tracking information the other thing that we asked a lot of each of them about was the subcontracting percentage how much did they subcontract and if they gave local preference because it was one of the things that was important to us of which really all of our finalists I gave good feedback in that area so
 The thing I want to be clear on is that, again, this is the debris removal and the pickup haul disposal, the grinding of the items that are picked up.
 What is not in this portion yet, although the evaluation of the pricing and provider will be the same because we looked at it, the dollar amount we're talking about in this is not encompassing the number of trees in terms of hangers, stump removal, et cetera, in our right-of-way. That will be something that we will continue to bring forward as urban foresters evaluate the actual trees, which one needs to be trimmed, which one needs to be removed, leaning, et cetera. But it will start.
 the removal process our RFP required within 48 hours from the award of the contract so for all of you and for all of us at the city who have been doing this every day you know we're looking forward in 48 hours to beginning our cleanup process and we do believe that this provider can also scale that is an extremely large company and had a large history of projects in there
 repertoire as well. We got good references as we did on all of those that we called. We used that on the front end, but everybody got great references, so we continue to evaluate it against.
 the criteria we used. And I guess I probably should have said that earlier. The criteria that was utilized in both of the RFP processes were qualifications in relation to the scope of work and direct experience and the kinds of things that we're looking at, experience and competence and their capacity for performance. So we asked questions for those that had already landed prior contracts about their ability to take on other areas which we felt comfortable with.
 We ask about their proposed method of doing work, and we scored in that area, as well as their past performance, which we evaluated through their referencing and their proposals, and then price. Those were the five sections of criteria. But our recommendation is DRC emergency services.
 Any comments? Was there any discussion on their safety record or any past experiences, whether they had any issues with accidents or damages or anything like that? We did. We asked questions about...
 we probably didn't get into their individual safety or OSHA you know 300 logs or things of that nature but we did get into their practices their training how would they as an organization handle claims or damages that might take place at individual property pickup locations we asked that both of the monitoring service as well as of the debris hauler it was something that the committee actually looked for in the
 responses is how did they deal with it, did they have the capability to answer telephone calls themselves as opposed to what they handled by the city. We wanted to know just what level of support might be there.
 Specifically, we spent a lot of time on the training and selection of their workforce. Actually one area we kept kind of honing on was the amount that was outsourced because we wanted to know what kind of QC controls were in place from an overall project perspective when we got to our finalists. In this particular contract, we had a pretty clear separation where the other one we bounced a lot between.
 the two finalists. This one we had, when we ultimately got down to it, they all appeared to be very strong and reputable. We got good references on each. We looked at things like how quickly they pay the people they subcontract and do they do it regularly and their ability to financially sustain it through the financials and things that were submitted in the bid process. But ultimately I think it was a pretty clear choice for the debris removal.
 Any other comments, questions from the council? Any public? Okay. You mentioned contacting. Is there, will it be the city that the people contact if they have questions when they're dealing with these companies, or how will that communication happen? We're actually going to work out the detail of that in the pre-construction conference. At this point, we've got the, we're going to be running this.
 project very similar to a lot of wsip projects it's going to have the same public information phone number but we're going to work through the monitor and the debris collector in the pre-con to determine what's worked best in their experience because they've done these exact type of jobs before in the midwest in oklahoma and in uh in missouri so and in arkansas as well so we'll come up with a consensus of the best plan based off their information the way they've done it um
 So to say we have the answer right now, we don't for sure, but we will have that as we stated on the website. We'll have the method for people to call us, call us and to contact the contractor as well. The contractor will be given, what we do as a standard, is they'll be given a letter of this is who I am and this is what we're doing, we're allowed to be here, we're supposed to be here, and this is who you call in case there's an issue. And the contractors, all of their crews will be carrying those letters. The website will show exactly how for folks to contact people. And there's a couple of parts to that. One is
 find out when they're going to be in the area, that's going to be posted on the web and in the newspaper every week. But also if somebody breaks a mailbox or if they reach over and pluck up a brush and it turns out they actually plucked up a bush as well that was supposed to remain. Some of those things are going to happen. All of the contractors address that and the monitors address that in detail.
 One of the things I want the council to be very clear on is that we're not just washing our hands of this project now that we're contracting it out. The city still has an oversight responsibility. We will be assigning our project leader will be Terry Gulley, director of our transportation division and contractor.
 co-partner with him will be David Juergens. And the reason we're doing that, one, is because David's leaving for military leave for three weeks, and two, Terry's been dealing with this every day since the storm's been working. So he knows what we're doing with, his crews are working, and we may continue at times, depending on what gets excluded under our FEMA kickoff guidelines, the city may still have responsibility for certain things that aren't covered otherwise, that we still have to deal with.
 So the two of them will be the primary contacts. Terry will be the one that we start the project. Terry then goes to a conference, and David is back, and so that's why you're hearing the two of their names. Subsequently, because we have monitors in the field, we don't want to also just leave that, so we've talked internally in the city about utilizing our engineering staff, inspectors, our...
 building safety inspectors and even maybe our code enforcement inspectors to help provide oversight to the monitoring contracts as well because we think it's important that the city keep a close eye on the project and that we very much have skin in the game as they say and want to make sure that it's managed properly communication is daily we
 one of the things that we talked about in this was how often can we get information how will we know how much you picked up today what the totals were what you clean so that we're able to keep a very close tight uh understanding of the project it's something that mayor jordan articulated very clearly to me so um we will be utilizing staff this is not just okay it's contracted out we're done
 So what did they say about how they can get back to you? At the end of the day, they'll let you know? They will. One of the monitoring company has a software application that they use that loads the information tickets, gives the totals, can run reports daily, and give us basically a type of reporting in terms of our reimbursement, which will be important.
 in order for our project worksheets and FEMA reimbursement to Move more quickly. We'll be able to process things and hopefully have expedited PWs as they call it and then the
 we had some ending dialogue with our RFP selection committee about having daily meetings with Terry and or David and our debris hauler and our monitoring service so that everybody's on the same page that the city is managing the overall work project and they're helping Execute it to meet the in deliverable it's especially important the daily tracking in this one and the daily reconciliation of work performed because I
 While it's a scientific guess, it's still something of an estimate of how many yards of debris that are out there. We've got to keep a really close eye on that to see if we're coming in way under, way over, not only for our own budgeting, but for the FEMA reimbursement pieces as well. Unlike a normal where we've got a known, there's a lot of unknown and a lot of range in these numbers. There also has been a lot of dialogue about the Corps' estimate of debris, our estimate of debris, and then the actual...
 Debris you deal with and you know, my concern was if we sign off on any kind of number we locked in What if the actual debris picked up ends up being more even though we know it's limited to right-of-ways and the rules and guidelines Around that I don't want to commit the city to
 some number and then have it come in 30% higher so we've gotten the monitoring and the documentation and the day-to-day accountability of it is critical to make sure that we know and can get reimbursed on that and so not that we're
 You know, we've had some citizens say, all y'all worried about is the FEMA process. No, we're worried about maximizing the return for the citizens so that they don't have to pay for it themselves and they get the advantage of their federal tax dollar as opposed to their sales tax dollar.
 That's why I believe going slower initially and getting all of this worked out and having a good review is important. We didn't want to have things challenged. I feel very good about the way that the committee evaluated and scored and questioned things, at least from my observation of it with the city. And many of the people have been through this process many times. Thank you.
 Alderman Farrell sits on a lot of RFP committees, so he could probably speak to that as well. I'm just glad we're at the stage of starting work. And I think that as a council, you should be really excited on the numbers that came in in the bids because without knowing exactly, so I'm not comparing apples to oranges, we read in the paper a Rogers article.
 contract rate is 1133 a springdale rate is like seven something it's the four added to the three well you know when we're looking at these rates on our contract debris removal it was like 319 for our cubic yards and a dollar something for our grinding so we're in that 420 ring for 21 so I think in taking our time we also got really competitive a bidding which will also be to the benefit of the citizens
 I think that was key. I think we took our time at the front end of this, and the bids became very competitive toward the end, which saved the citizens ultimately quite a bit of money. I mean, we're looking at $3 less than Springdale right now. And not to get all Pollyanna on you, but I really do want to tell you that some staff have been putting in huge hours. The purchasing staff, Andrea Foran, Joanne, and John.
 Maine and Allison Atha in the purchasing group have been answering questions, making copies, getting addendums out. They have done a phenomenal job. With David's staff, Laurie Johnson and Shannon Jones have helped us tremendously with contract language, pricing sheets when we got to that point.
 um the city clerk's office as we walk in and hand them something at six o'clock for a 6 30 meeting
 There's been a lot of work done, and we just want you to know that. And so if you see those people, thank them because they've done a great job. They did. I mean, our city attorney drew up two resolutions in about 15 minutes. And that boy can spit out them resolutions when he wants to. But it was literally like a beehive in here today to be in here and just –
 the work, they brought us in to lunch and we had lunch right where we were sitting and we just And you all earned your money but Alderman Farrell put in an extra 12 hours in the last day and a half of straight time so we thank you very much. And then he interviewed himself too. Just wanted to pay you the big money. Anyway, well is there any public comment on this? Yes.
 I'm David Crump of SRS, and I certainly applaud y'all taking the lowest bidder, DRC. It's a fine company. I've just got one thing. I'd certainly like to be paid my million dollars that they owe me from Houston before they undertake y'all's job. I'd like to be paid. Okay. And then y'all got the bonds, which I'll protect some of the other guys. But I certainly wish you'd bring it to their attention. I would love to get paid the million dollars they owe me.
 Okay, thank you. Anybody else? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I'm going to entertain a motion and a second. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any other comments? Senator, please call the roll. Gray? Yes. Teal? Yes. Cook? Yes. Farrell? Yes. Lucas? Yes. Lewis? Yes. Okay. Yes. I probably speak for all the council, but I want to thank the committee. Thank you.
 that met and spent so many hours working on this because I know it was very, very intense. And I appreciate all the work you've done. I appreciate the staff for everything that they've done. I've had nothing but compliments from the people in the community. And they are very appreciative of everything that's been done. And I'm sure that the citizens are delighted that we're going to get started. So thank you all very much. Thank you very much, Shirley. I appreciate that.
 I have a question. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, no. It's more, it may come in the pre-contractual meeting that you're talking about, but they're hiring local folks for a lot of the contract work. How do people find out about those positions? Do we know that yet? The contractor for hiring subcontractors to do cutting, hauling, et cetera, he already had contacted a number of those organizations.
 I don't know how he got the names, but they're out there in that industry. Also, they have habitual relationships literally all over the country. As they work an area, a disaster in an area, they get to know the subs in that area, and they work in other areas. And so they've got those contacts all the time that they keep. So when they come in here, they contact other people in the area, and who else do you know that works in the area? So that was a lot of direct contact. For the monitoring piece, I believe it was primarily a newspaper ad, and then contacting other firms that they know have worked in the area as well.
 They'll bring in some of their own monitors from their home company and then do training with the monitors that they hire locally, so it will be a mix. I would encourage citizens who are interested in that to watch for ads, particularly for the monitoring contracts, to watch for ads for any additional hiring that they may have,
 directly contact those businesses because the city won't be involved in the hiring aspect with them, but if they have an interest, certainly express it with the organizations we selected. One of the things we hoped is that we had job opportunities for people who might be unemployed otherwise in this environment. Thank you. Anything else? This meeting is adjourned. I'll call it a nature stimulus message.