I would like to call the City Council meeting of September, sorry, February the 15th, 2022 to order. Carriage, please call the roll. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Scroggins. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Alright, the first order of business we have tonight is under presentations and proclamations and recognitions.
 We have the certified municipal clerk designation presentation for our own city clerk and treasurer, Kara Paxton. The presentation of the certificate will be presented by the city finance director of Gravette, Carl Rabin. Okay, well then that will work as well. Okay.
 thank you hello my name is kim jones i am
 Yes, you may. That's exciting, thank you. Yeah, so my name is Kim Jones. I am the director of the Municipal Clerks Institute at the University of Arkansas. So we provide training for city clerks from across the state, and I am really excited to be here tonight for CARA. This is the premier credential for the city clerk's profession.
 It requires a combination of 120 hours of qualified training plus related experience criteria. And Kara, in her two years as clerk here, has diligently pursued not only the training needed for this designation, but she also already serves as quite a great resource for clerks all around the state, which we all appreciate.
 So I'm very pleased to officially present Kara with the award. I definitely look forward to her continued contributions across the state with other clerks and also her pursuit of the next level of certification. So...
 Congratulations Karen, well done. Alright, the next order of business we have tonight is an appointment to the Public Facilities Board Mayor appointment, which is for Charlie Watson. Sarah, I believe you have this. Sarah Bunch. Councilmember Bunch appears to have gone offline suddenly. I'm not sure. Perhaps she'll be right back.
 I'm on the nominating committee. Yes, why don't we go ahead and move along with it. Okay. Yeah, so we had a special meeting to interview Mr. Watson, and he comes by a lot of incredibly amazing experience and volunteer activity to the city. So we were happy to approve and agree with your nomination and would like to – what's the official thing I need to do?
 Recommend him to be on the public facilities board. Yes, we need a motion in a second second Okay, you have a motion in a second to appoint Charlie Watson to the public facilities board Carriage please call the roll bench. Sorry about that. Yes Turk Yes Earth spark. Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes. I
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Thank you all very much. Congratulations, Charlie. Next order of business, we have a walk-on of resolution.
 to waive development permit fees for Habitat for Humanity's proposed houses in South Federal. Sonia, we need to have a motion and a second to add it to the agenda. Is that correct? Yes, we need to suspend the rule so we can put this on the agenda. I move to suspend rules to put this on the agenda. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend rules and put this on the agenda. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Okay.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes mayor do you want me to read the body of this yes please just put forward whereas a unified development code authorizes a City Council member to quote present a resolution to the City Council to waive or reduce development permit fees to serve the public interest or be beneficial to the city as a whole
 And whereas assisting Habitat for Humanity's currently proposed project to build about eight houses with the sweat equity of their new owners and volunteer efforts could provide valuable and very affordable and attainable permanent housing for several Fayetteville families. And whereas building fees for non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity shall be exempted from the payment of building permit fees. That's already in the code.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that waiving all development review permit fees related to Habitat for Humanity's proposed project to build several houses in South Fayetteville is in the public interest and beneficial to Fayetteville as a whole to assist in the creation of several much-needed affordable houses for our citizens and families.
 section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby waives all development permit fees for Habitat for Humanity's proposed project as authorized by section 159.01a of the Unified Development Code. Okay, so yes well Kit described it very well so we're just looking to waive the development fees
 for the Habitat for Humanity's current project. So we know we have a goal of having attainable housing, so that fits within this scope and it's in the code. So I'd love to have your support on that. Okay. Any questions do we have from the council on this? Anything? What's the monetary value?
 So I was just chatting and we think somewhere in the three to four hundred dollar range is that we're thinking Yes, it kind of depends on exactly what the project is assuming. It's a preliminary plat I think it's at least three to four hundred dollars and Jonathan correct me if I'm wrong and plus the building permit fee is already waived under the code and that would have been an additional amount per house and
 but the code already waives it for Habitat for Humanity or other nonprofit that is involved in housing. All right, thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one. Turn it to Mike. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Okay.
 those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person after that susan who do we have on zoom on this no one has their hand raised to speak mayor okay is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic please come to my account and please give us your name and address you have a five minute duration
 Brandon Svoboda, Executive Director of Habitat for Humanity. I just wanted to say thank you. I appreciate the effort that everyone's put in to make this work for us and I especially want to say thank you on behalf of the families that this will impact.
 It's a challenge purchasing property right now in Washington County and specifically Fayetteville and trying to keep those lots and land affordable for our homeowners, which we have to pass on to them. Though our interest rate is a 0% interest rate for them, it is still challenging. Mr. Mayor and I talked about that just yesterday to keep this affordable for them. So every chance we can get to partner with you.
 is a benefit for those families. And we're talking hardworking families, right? Low-income families, 50% to 80% of the median income here in Fayetteville. And so I just want to say thank you. I think it's a great step forward. Again, keeping in line with what's already there, but an additional cost savings for our hardworking families in Fayetteville to maintain ownership of their homes and their land. So thank you. Thank you, Brian. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is a resolution. What discussion are we to have from the Council, or what actions would you all like to take? I move to approve the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the Council? All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. All right, thank you all very much. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 1st, 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $29,500 to pay for vegetation removal and trash cleanup at the former safe camp location.
 number three a resolution to approve the transportation division overlay and cyborg projects list for 2022 and 2023 number four resolution authorize acceptance of the edward byrne memorial justice assistance grant for the fourth judicial district drug task force any amount of 153 180 and to authorize mayor jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds
 number five a resolution to authorize contract motorola solutions incorporated in the amount of 893 228.90 plus applicable tax and freight charges for the purchase of radio equipment design installation and software at the central dispatch center located at the new police headquarters and to approve a project contingency in the amount of eighty two thousand dollars number six
 a resolution to approve the purchase of dispatch furniture for the central dispatch center from urbic systems incorporated in the amount of 170 396.37 plus any applicable tax and delivery charges pursuant to a houston galveston area council co-operative purchasing contract number seven a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of twelve thousand dollars recognizing contract
 reduction revenue from the Community Access Television, DVA, Your Media, and to increase the related promotional activities budget. Number eight, a resolution to approve change order number seven to the construction manager at-risk contract with Flintco LLC for the Porter Road and Dean Street roundabout as part of the police headquarters project in the amount of $4,169,565
 to approve the project contingency in the amount of $280,000 and to approve the budget adjustment. This is 2019 Transportation Bond Project. And number nine, a resolution to approve supplemental agreement number two to the contract Burns & McDonald Engineering Company Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $28,200.
 $282 for a detailed noise analysis requirement of the Federal Highway Administration associated with Highway 112 Improvement Project and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to accept consent agenda as read. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. Now we move on to unfinished business. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-081 located at 3373 North College Avenue for approximately 6.98 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 so moved second we have a motion a second to go to the second read care which please call the wrong bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyan yes scroggin yes
 And an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-081, located at 3373 North College Avenue, for approximately 6.98 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Okay. Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I don't have anything new to add to this one. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has, and I believe Robert Rhodes is present tonight as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? You have ten minutes. How many minutes did you say, Mayor? Ten? Ten. Thank you. You're only allowed to use two, though. I'm actually not going to use any time at all.
 What I had hoped to do was to leave this on the second reading and let me explain why. Earlier, I had sent some of you folks, well actually all of the council members, a
 preliminary plat that my client has produced that shows this particular piece of property that's subject of this rezoning. Now last night I presented another piece of property that is south of this property and but it's all adjacent and it's all connected and it's all on this one particular preliminary plat.
 and as one project, although it's subject of two different rezonings. The project also includes the existing buildings where the Lewis Brothers have their garages and their showrooms and what have you. And those, as I say, so the two rezonings and that Lewis Brother property is all sort of subject to a project.
 The buildings that are existing are not subject to any rezoning, the zoning on those are just sufficient.
 And so my thought process was, I kind of wanted to maybe have a couple of meetings and I thought it might be easier because I believe since the rezoning last night that the PC approved unanimously by the way, I'm fairly certain it'll probably be ready and queued up for the next city council meeting. That way you can kind of,
 look at these two together and if I'm a member of the public or if I'm actually a city council member or what have you I think it might be easier for everyone and so that's that's the reason for my my request to leave this on the second reading and then I'll give you I'm too beautiful full-blown
 discussions on both projects, but I promise I won't take 10 minutes apiece next meeting, okay? If you have any questions about that I'd be glad to answer them, but that's my request. Okay, well we're always into beautiful conversations, as you know. So I guess we will, you want to, let's take some public comment and then I guess we will, y'all will decide if you want to hold it here or not.
 Mayor, may I offer a point of clarification? What? May I offer a point of clarification on the timing Mr. Rhodes just described? Sure.
 With the item being forwarded from the Planning Commission last night, it will not be on the City Council's agenda until the March 15th meeting. So that will be two meetings from now. So we would need to table it. Well, yes, we'll end up having to table it, right, Kit, to the March 15th? Eventually it will have to be tabled if he wants them heard at the same time. And the reason for that is that we actually put the agenda together tomorrow afternoon, so it doesn't give the Planning Department enough time to meet the next City Council meeting.
 So I moved the table to two meetings away. Is that correct? March 15th. March 15th. Second. All right. We have a motion and second to table to March 15th. Any, any, you know, do we have, I want to take a little public comment in case somebody from the public wishes to say something because this is not going to be come back until March 15th. Everybody gets one turn into Mike. You have a five minute duration. Okay.
 everyone please stay on the topic don't engage anyone from the public or a council member no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those that are here in person after that who do we have on zoom Susan no one is raising their hand mayor okay so anyone in the room that like to speak on this okay bring back to the council we have a motion in the second to table to March the 15th
 care which police call row bunch yes turd yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes scroggins yes okay thank you all very much let's move to number two
 An ordinance rezoning a property inscribed rezoning petition RCN 21-082 located at 582 North Mission Boulevard for approximately 0.41 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family eight units per acre. This one was left on the second reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading with this one. So moved.
 second second we have motion second to go to the third and final read care what you please call about bunch yes harvey yes her tour hey you miss me turk yes yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition, RZN 21-082, located at 582 North Mission Boulevard for approximately 0.41 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Okay, Jonathan, anything new on this one?
 thank you mayor no i do not have anything new on this one i'm available for questions and i believe tim mcmahon is online as the applicant for this one mayor thank you okay would the applicant like to speak before the council you have 10 minutes mr mcmahon is on okay mr mayor mr mayor and uh
 Members of the council, I appreciate your service to our community, and I would be happy to answer any questions if you have any for me. Thank you very much. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the council on this result? I have a quick question for Jonathan. Jonathan, going from the four to eight, do we have any, what's our tree preservation plan on that? I'm looking for it on our packet here.
 Does it stay the same? Are you wondering the percent canopy requirements? Yeah, canopy, yes. Because I know it's quite wooded through there. It goes from 25 to 20%. 25 to 20, so it really is from five, okay. Well, I think that's all I've got. Okay, any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn at the mic, you have a five minute duration. Please stay on the topic.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council member no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first then those that are here in the chambers in person after that susan who do we have on zoom no one at this time mayor okay do we have anyone in the chamber would like to speak to us on this topic okay um
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. It is on the third reading, so what final comments do we have from the council on this?
 I just want to say this is in Ward 1. It's a really excellent location, and I'm glad to see a little bit of very gentle density. I think it's very appropriate, very near services, and has that infill score of 7. I'd love to see that. I used to live in that neighborhood. It's really nice. So I'm looking forward to supporting it. Okay. Any other final comments from the council?
 that we're that has been in that neighborhood. And I think that's a really important point. And I think that's a really important point. And I think that's a really important point. And I think that's a really important point.
 However, I'm glad Councilmember Gutierrez pointed out, or Harvey, sorry, that the tree canopy requirement goes down to 20% from 25. I would just encourage everybody to keep as many trees as possible because we really need that carbon sequestration in the midst of climate change. But in terms of the size of the lot being reduced, it fits in that historic pattern of that neighborhood. Thank you.
 Anything else? All right. Care, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving on to new business. Number one, a resolution to grant the appeal to Council Members Teresa Turk, Holly Hertzberg, and Mark Kenyon and to approve the conditional use permit.
 CUP 2021-052 for a Glide Express car wash at 3349 West Weddington Drive. Jonathan, do you have this one to start with? And then we'll get the input from the council members. Certainly, Mayor. I can start off with a little bit of background. Okay. This property is located at West Fayetteville in Ward 4.
 More specifically, it's on the southeast corner of Salem Road and Weddington Drive. It represents the northeasternmost extent of the Forest Hills PZD and one of the few remaining properties that were undeveloped in association with that PZD. It's probably most familiar to the public and those on the council as a location where we commonly see fireworks tents around the Fourth of July.
 The request that went before the Planning Commission was for a conditional use permit to locate a car wash on this lot.
 The Forest Hills PZD does allow car washes, but only as a conditional use. It's classified as a transportation trade and service, whereas things like gas stations and drive-thru restaurants, like those you see to the west, are allowed by right. A car wash would not be. So that is why it was receiving special scrutiny and went before the commission for a special consideration under a conditional use permit.
 the request as brought before the commission originally began with the car wash building oriented parallel to weddington drive that changed in a subsequent submittal or proposal to shift the building to a north-south orientation parallel to salem
 This was in response to two things, a desire to have better site circulation for vehicles, since it is a car wash. And the second piece of it was conversations with our city's urban forester. And they're noting that there were several large, I believe it was oak trees on the Eastern property line. And by shifting the building to the West property line, they could move a driveway further interior to the property in an effort to save those trees. Hmm.
 I'm sorry. Here's a rendering that was provided with the conditional use permit to orient the council. This is looking towards the southeast. So the street you see conceptually running off to the left-hand side would be Weddington, and on the right-hand side is Salem.
 The main issues that came up before the Planning Commission and that staff considers when looking at a conditional use permit are ones of the public's interest, compatibility and traffic safety.
 In terms of traffic safety, staff did find this to be a fitting request. The applicant is not proposing to access Weddington, which is indisputably the higher traffic street in the situation and could represent the potential for conflicts or wrecks put in normal terms. So we felt it did not pose a traffic hazard in that regard.
 A second and perhaps paradoxical consideration that went before the commission from staff's perspective was one of walkability. This property, although it is apparently a car wash and inherently auto-oriented, would afford the opportunity to complete pedestrian connections along this portion of Weddington. Developing this property would come with associated infrastructure requirements like sidewalk construction.
 The commission felt that being an auto-oriented use, it would have kind of a converse impact where it would be attracting more vehicles to the property and having a negative impact on walkability. So it was two sides of the same coin in that regard.
 As for the last major consideration, compatibility, staff found that the request is very compatible with the existing land uses and auto-oriented nature of Weddington. As I noted a moment ago, there are several drive-thru restaurants further to the west and elsewhere along the corridor.
 Although the city aspires to make the area more walkable ultimately in the near term, the existing land uses are certainly more auto-oriented, so it is difficult to dispute that this request is compatible in staff's opinion.
 And looking at it again from the compatibility with the PZD, under which this property is owned through the Forest Hills project. Staff also did note, again, that this property could be developed with a gas station or a drive-thru restaurant. And while there are some uses under U-Suit at 17, that could be a nuisance or problematic for an area such as a very high volume.
 mechanic shop or possibly a vehicle repair shop, we found that a car wash was certainly lower on the level or the ladder of impacts that can result under use unit 17 and felt it would be complementary to the other activities in Forest Hills and along Weddington.
 that we're looking at. Lastly, in looking at it from a compatibility standpoint, one item that the Planning Commission brought up and had concerns about is with the city's growth concept map that lives within city plan 2040.
 This document strives to designate certain locations for higher intensity and density developments, preferably those to develop those in a more urban, mixed-use format. The commission, when looking at this request, noted that there is not a node, a targeted node at Salem and Weddington where this property is located. But there is one further west at Ruple, and they questioned whether that was appropriate and whether the map ought to be revisited.
 with, oh, and here's an example showing about where that property is. This is the growth concept map from city plan 2040 with the star located within those two tier two centers from the growth concept map.
 Lastly, onto this recommendation, staff did ultimately find in favor of the request. The item had two hearings at the Planning Commission. The first one began with the applicant presenting a new site plan, so the Commission felt it was appropriate to table the item to consider what was being proposed.
 When it came back on January 10th, the item was ultimately denied after quite a bit of discussion. There were concerns about the drive aisle being located on Weddington with the building's shift to Salem and that it can compromise any efforts towards walkability in the larger area. Those who did not support the denial, the three commissioners dissenting, felt it was compatible, similar to staff, with Weddington's current auto-oriented state design.
 With that, I have not received any public comments on the item. I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Morrison Shipley was the engineer who submitted this project, but Robert Rhodes is currently the applicant who, again, is there in person. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Mayor, if I may, I would like to split this up. We have ten minutes, Robert. How do you want to split it up? Let me introduce Dylan Ward. Dylan is a manager of the company that does business as Glide Car Wash.
 Good evening, Mayor and members of the City Council. We're very happy to be here after a long road. As you can see, we started this back in December, so thank you for having us here tonight. I just wanted to start and briefly explain who we are at Glide Express and what we do and why we think...
 we do have a good fit for this site here on Weddington. So as you know, it says in our name, we are a car wash, but what you may not know is that since our beginning, we've become one of the best car washes in the nation. And that's only because you don't know that, because you haven't experienced us yet, but we have an elite package, but that's not what makes us the greatest car washer. One of the greatest car washes, what we believe is
 What makes us so great is our focus on customer experience. And I don't mean to come across as arrogant. I always say that we're the best because we spent years designing this experience before we ever even broke ground on our first location. And since then, we've looked at the success on every location and the reviews that we get from the community. And in today's world, you can look on Google and you can pretty much depend on those reviews
 being a good indicator because everyone can easily leave a review. And people will, especially when something isn't great. So what we're proud of is we're proud that after our first five locations, we're proud to say that we have a Google rating of 4.7 and that's over 1,300 or more ratings.
 Just a few things about though, which make us great, we believe at Glide Express are as follows. So we've spared no expense to source and install state-of-the-art equipment in all of our tunnels to provide the absolute best express tunnel car wash available in the country.
 We've set the highest of standards to hire employees who display elevated levels of work ethic, integrity and responsibility. Our team member culture is a huge part of our success and we focus on people by promoting from within and providing competitive wages between $15 to $18 per hour. That's in year one plus health insurance options. We have 10 to 12 team members on each site and three to five members working at a time.
 Our amenities include ample covered vacuum stalls with commercial grade vacuums, compressed air guns at each stall, mat cleaning services, complimentary towels for detailing, and vending machines with additional cleaning supplies. Car washing is a dirty business, but you wouldn't know it looking at our sites because we go to great lengths to make sure our sites are clean.
 We're meticulous about clearing our grounds of trash and debris daily. We also power wash our parking lots as needed and make sure landscaping is well groomed. We take operating our car washes seriously so that our customers have the best experience every time they come and visit.
 As for environmental impacts of a Glide Express car wash, our washes use about 100 gallons of water per wash, per vehicle, per wash cycle. However, only 10 to 20 gallons of water for that total is fresh water. So the rest, the 80 to 90 gallons, is actually reclaimed water from a reclamation system.
 So the Reclaim system draws water from large settling tanks in the car wash, processes the water to remove contaminants and chemicals, treats the water for bad odors, and sends the processed water back to the wash system for reuse.
 Sand and clay particles and any other solids in the water can damage the paint on the vehicle so they are allowed to settle and they're removed. Once the water has been recycled so many times, it is no longer fit for use. It is discharged in the sanitary sewer to be treated at a water treatment facility.
 Just comparing to car washes at home, not everybody knows, but car washing at home, it actually wastes a tremendous amount of clean water. We have a statistic that shows that a typical garden hose can dispense 100 gallons of water in a 10-minute period of being turned on. Also, if you're washing cars, one or more cars at home on a weekly basis,
 then all that oil, all the grime, the salt, the chemicals from the soap, all of that gets washed off and into the surrounding environment each time you do that. So that can be very, very damaging over a long period of time. Certainly if COVID has taught us anything, it's that we can never be too intentional about keeping our daily surroundings clean and sanitary. For a lot of people who commute to work, carpool, have messy kids,
 or make a living as an Uber or Lyft driver, their cars are their livelihood. At Glide Express, we provide hardworking people access to state-of-the-art technology so they can quickly and easily custom clean their car to the
 their like to how they like and get back to living their lives. And we're really proud of that. We also offer contact free service. So no need to roll down the window to select your wash package or pay. You simply download the Glide Express app. You can choose your wash, customize, pay, and do that from your phone. You don't even have to roll down your window. Also, once you're a member, you can simply pull up to the gate and the car wash will read your name
 read your license plate and open automatically. So it's really simple and really COVID conscious we feel. So just to sum up, we've all had that Chick-fil-A experience. If I could kind of make a comparison, when you go there, you know you're going to get a great product, you know you're gonna get it with the quick and cheerful service and at a fair price. Why can't car cleaning be that way?
 The answer is we think it can. And it's not easy, but we think it's worth it. And it's the small things that add up to create such a great experience. So as long as we're open, rain, snow, or shine, you can rest assured that we'll be doing those small things to make the big impacts on people's lives. And pretty soon we hope people would be saying, have you had the glide experience? So that's it, thank you.
 Okay, Mr. Rill, this looks like you have about three minutes. Thank you, Dylan. The CUP, as you heard before, was discussed in two separate Planning Commission meetings.
 And after the first one, the applicant made changes including substantial landscaping, adding landscaping, and preserving trees. Again, all things good for the air. There's no curb cuts in Weddington. As a result, there's no adverse impact on neighboring businesses. The staff report calls this an auto-oriented thoroughfare, thereby making car washes quite appropriate as well as needed.
 that this is an auto oriented thoroughfare. Nothing, I'm sorry, my clients measured data from February 8th of this year to February 11th, four days measuring 24 hours a day how many times four separate crosswalk buttons were used. The average of those four days was 16 times per button.
 That was after the snowstorm. The weather was good on those days, walkable weather. If you kind of compare that in the area of one mile radius population of 9,282 people, then those 16 pushes is about 0.65% of the population or 0.2% of the 33,000 vehicles per day traffic count.
 My point is that as much as we'd love to have all of Fayetteville and everyone walking, it's not happening there and people do need a car wash. Regarding the original PZD of this particular lot, I think there's speculation that it could have been a small office, but not speculation, but it called for various things that Jonathan indicated.
 But the fact that they particularly pointed out that through the CUP process you could put a car wash, that tells me that a car wash wasn't beyond anticipation. It might have even been part of anticipation.
 Further, the reason a car wash works better than some of the other things is that with the PZD there are three separate documents that are filed, filed of record documents that put over 50 restrictions on this particular piece of land. No banks, no restaurants with alcohol, no drive-throughs, no burger joints.
 So with these restrictions in mind and the general intent of the PZD was for my client, excuse me, I think my clients have come up with a pretty good use. And again, as you heard from my client's presentation, this is not just a car wash, but it's a modern, environmentally sound car wash, not like anything else seen in Fayetteville.
 Further, the staff finds this request generally compatible now as well as compatible with the City's long-range plans for 2040. The future land use calls for City neighborhood areas, which encourages these type of commercial developments to provide services to individuals living in the area. And those pretty much all are cards. Time missed for us. Thank you. Thank you. Take any questions. Okay. All right. Would the Council members that failed?
 the decision would you do you have any comments um i would be inclined to support this the biggest concern for me was the curb cut on weddington so the fact that they've moved that has um alleviated all of my concerns with this area so i would be in support and i'm open for any discussion okay i also after going and looking around up there i think it is appropriate for this property so
 It's not what I would envision that will be there, but I think that it certainly is fine to be there. Okay. I have a question for Mr. Rhodes. He just mentioned the other 50 restrictions or so on that piece of land. Maybe you could elaborate a little bit about where those restrictions are, where they originate from, and have a little bit longer list. Yes, ma'am. Thank you for some extra time, Ms. Turk. Thank you.
 Let's see, I'll be brief though. Okay, there's three separate documents, declaration of restrictions, which is of record 2013-24509. There's also, well, let me just tell you what's in that. No cocktail lounges, bars, no alcoholic beverages on premise consumption,
 Let's see, and if that business sells food, then it can't be more than 40%. No disco, bowling alley, pool hall, roller rink. I mean, there's tons. I can go through all 50 of them. There's another document, Declaration of Restrictions 2013-14-475, restriction against use for any full-service banking, savings and loan, or credit union.
 There's another one, 2014-11558, the property should not be leased or used for any drive-through or carry-out fast food restaurants in which hamburgers are primarily sold. And it lists a whole bunch of different, like literally 28 hamburger joints, and that list of restrictions lasts for 99 years.
 And maybe if I could interrupt just a second. So these are restrictions on the deed or on the POA or from the city? I guess that's where I'm trying to figure out where these restrictions originate from. They're part of the PZD, so when it was developed...
 the developer put forth these provisions, probably because other tenants like Walmart and so forth didn't want competition, I'm guessing. But I think once it gets voted as a PZD, then Kit, help me out.
 Well, the restrictions are not on the city. The city adopted the restrictions and to its PCD ordinance to give it more force. And also, if the restriction is going to be removed, you'd have to get city council to remove the restriction. The property owner couldn't do it by itself. But I think I agree with your analysis. Some of the restrictions are there.
 to support the basic main tenant of Walmart and But so these are restrictions just in the zoning So the City Council could change it themselves if they wanted to but that doesn't mean that they're still not going to be enforceable with the owner of the of the property Who you know, it's if they're like to some extent restrictive covenants Which we don't have to follow but the property owners have to follow I
 Thank you all for answering my questions. I appreciate it. Okay, any other questions from the council or any other comments before we take public comment? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five minute duration to stay on the topic, which is the appeal.
 don't engage anyone from the public or a council member no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first then those that are here in person next so who do we have on zoom susan nobody on this topic mayor okay is there anyone in the room that would like to talk to us on this topic okay i'm going to bring it back to the council so
 This is resolution. So what that what discussion or action would the council like to take? I'm kind of blown away by the number of car washes I've approved over the years. It seems like we keep approving them and then they die and then we approve new ones. I personally don't know why we need car washes. God has it rain every so often and it takes care of itself. However,
 If we're going to put a car wash somewhere, this is probably where it should go. There's a massive amount of traffic that's going to go here.
 And if somebody were to drive to go to a car wash, I guess it would actually be environmentally friendly that we put this where they're going to drive anyway. So to me this makes sense that if we're going to have to have car washes, this seems like a reasonable location. So I'll be for this because I guess people do go to car washes and this way they don't have to drive as far because they're going to be stuck in traffic there anyway.
 I don't think we're going to make Weddington a pedestrian haven anytime soon, and I don't think this is going to stop it from ever happening in the future. So I'll be for this. Okay. Well, I understand we need a motion to second to support the appeal. Is that correct, Kit? Yes, and to pass the resolution which would support the appeal and grant the conditional use.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. I have one question for Jonathan before they vote, please, Mayor. A lot of times conditional uses have conditions on them. We left some spaces under the resolution. I didn't know if staff had requested conditions be placed on this or not, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mr. Williams. Yes, staff had proposed conditions on this. I can run through those now, or if the council was able to see those with the packet that was the Planning Commission packet, if they're comfortable with those, I suppose you can advise better than not whether that can be incorporated into the resolution or not.
 Jonathan, I'd like for you to review them. If we have time, I just want to be quick about it. Certainly. I'll be brief. There are six. The first one is just a typical boilerplate determination of compatibility that's required of the Commission on all CUPs, Conditionally Used Permits. The second describes the scope of the business as the applicant asked for it, which is the size of the building, hours of operation, parking, employees, things like that. So there is a framework under which they can operate.
 There's a caveat condition which says this conditional use permit doesn't mean you're granted any development approvals. You still have to go through the city's development process, of course. A business license is required. Any expansion or significant changes to the proposal may have to come back before the commission to amend the permit. And then another boilerplate one, making it clear that signage has to be approved by a separate permit since the
 That often catches people by surprise, but that is all. So how would you get the city council just adopt the staff recommendations of conditions of approval that were going to be probably enacted by the planning commission if they had passed this? And they're all, I guess, as you say, spelled out in the report that the city council has that was actually first given to the planning commission.
 So what you're saying, Kit, first we have to grant the appeal, if we do. Well, they need to amend the resolution before they pass the resolution. Okay. That's why I stopped you, Mayor, because once they pass the resolution, there's no conditions on the resolution right now, and I thought the city council might want to have those conditions. I move that we amend the resolution to include the
 conditions read by Mr. Kearse. Second. Super. Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend to what Jonathan Kearse read to the council as conditions. Care to please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Canyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. So at this point, Mayor, if they vote in favor of the resolution, it would be as presented by staff and recommended by staff. If they vote yes, then everything's hunky-dory. So if there's not any final comments, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okie dokie. Thank you. All right. Number two, an ordinance to approve vacation 22-01 for property located at 2875 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one,
 Prior to easement vacation becoming effective, a new replacement water line and easement must be reviewed and approved by City Engineering. The new water line shall be constructed by the applicant and accepted by the City and the new replacement easement dedicated. At that time, the existing water line shall be abandoned by the applicant and this easement vacation becomes effective.
 And the second condition is any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Okay. John? Thank you, Mayor. This property is in southwest Fayetteville at Ward 1. More specifically, it includes the thin strip of land you see here located just east of the Walmart Supercenter within the property's parking lot on the east side of the building.
 Walmart is proposing to expand their building, and that will overlap the easement. We are not able to approve building permits on top of easements, particularly ones where city infrastructure is located. There's currently an existing city water main in the easement. So the applicant has proposed to vacate that easement.
 What that looks like in more graphical terms, it's hard to imagine. What you see here is the easement that will be vacated by this proposal. And what would be dedicated in its place would be an easement to wrap around the new expansion and connect the existing mains to the north and south.
 Staff has found no issues with the request. The city's water and sewer department has signed off on the proposal. We are recommending in favor of it accordingly with those conditions outlined by Mr. Williams, including that a new bank be reviewed by staff, approved and installed, and that any damage to existing facilities of that easement are at the applicant's expense.
 We've not received any public comment. I'm available for questions. And I believe we have a representative of CEI here tonight as the applicant, either, I'm sorry, I believe it's either Zachary Fletcher or Brittany Gillen. Okay. Zachary Fletcher. Yes, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. I don't have any comments. I'm just here to answer any questions you might have about the abandonment. Okay. All right, what questions do we have from the council on this?
 All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Please stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Is anyone in the chamber would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance what discussion or would what actions with the council? like to take I'm gonna suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second we have a motion and a second to go to the second three care. Would you please call the roll? Yes, turd. Yes Hertzberg. Yes Harvey. Yes Jones Yes, Kenyon
 Yes Scroggins yes an ordinance approved BAC 22-0 one for property located at 28 75 West Martin Luther King jr Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement Maybe we spend the rules and go to the third reading. Yep Second-second the motion saying go to the third final read care. Would you please call the roll? Thanks? Yes Yes Hertzberg yes
 Harvey yes Jones Yes, Kenyon. Yes Scroggins yes and your notes approved the AC 22-0 one for properly located at 28 75 West Martin Luther King jr Boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement What final comments do we have in the council on this? All right care would you please call the roll bench? Yes Kirk
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much.
 Number three, an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition RZN 21-087 located at North Futrell Drive between Weddington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 9.40 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to CS community services kit.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to CS, Community Services.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property falls in Ward 1. It is west of the University of Arkansas's campus on the southwest slope of Markham Hill. As you can see in the aerial image here, it's immediately north of the Southern View Apartments. It has street frontage, which is the most apparent is on Futile Drive, the frontage road for Interstate 49. But it also connects to Root Avenue on the southeast corner of the site.
 Before proceeding further, I would like to offer a little bit more context, or at least a near-term context to the council.
 This request came to the Planning Division and Planning Commission along with three other requests along Futurl Drive. You can see those in the black polygons here. The three northern ones were all denied by the Planning Commission. This property was the only one that was afforded from the Commission.
 And moving back to that property specifically, as you can see here again, it is undeveloped. It is largely under tree canopy. Portions of it, particularly towards the northern property line, center of the property, are located within the hillside hilltop overlay district.
 There's some varying slopes on the site with the flatter portions of the property averaging about 5% closer to Futurall and a little bit flatter towards Root Avenue before beginning to increase again towards that area of hillside hilltop overlay with slopes of 15% and somewhat higher.
 The council likely remembers this request most recently from a proposal in 2021 to rezone it to UT urban thoroughfare At that time there was an expressed intent to develop property with mini storage Staff recommended denial the Planning Commission denied the request and ultimately the council heard it on appeal where it was finally denied
 The request before the council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to CS, community services. There have been no specific development plans submitted to date, so staff is reviewing it as we always do on the face of the zoning district being requested. That begins with a consideration of compatibility.
 It is first worth noting that the land immediately to the north is intended for preservation. That was part of the Markham Pillar place in rezoning at PZD several years ago. The area you see in green on the map here is intended ultimately to be dedicated in a preservation easement.
 The differing from that to the east, south, and west is all land that's either currently developed or can be developed as multifamily. To the south and west on the other side of the interstate are apartments. And just beyond the undeveloped multifamily zone property to the east are additional apartments.
 Further afield, as the council likely knows, is Martin Luther King, where there is a fair mix of mostly non-residential uses, hotels, schools, offices, and retail. With that in mind, staff did find the request, and does find the request to be generally compatible from a land use perspective.
 When looking at it in long-range terms, staff first looked at the future land use map, which has a split designation for the property. That area of the site that falls within the HHOV, those steeper slopes, is all designated as residential.
 neighborhood area and the rest of the properties called out city neighborhood area with the biggest distinction between those two within the name. Residential neighborhood areas are intended to be developed residentially with a diversity of housing and city neighborhood areas are intended to incorporate more of a non-residential component as well.
 Moving into city plan 2040's goals, staff feels that this request speaks to those. The community services zoning district affords a greater diversity of housing opportunities. The current RSF4 zoning district only allows single-family homes.
 This housing would be located near employment and transportation opportunities. The property is within walking distance of both ORT and Razorback transit spots. And interestingly, it is all outside the Enduring Green Network. But again, as a reminder, a portion of it does fall within the HHOD area.
 that's a good thing. Other considerations staff had when looking at this, particularly when compared to the other three sites along Futurall which staff did not support, is that this property is unique in that it does have a connection to Root Avenue, again on the southeast corner of the site. Futurall is a one-way street and that inherently limits the potential that
 that the users of the property or future residents or businesses can benefit from connecting to MLK or the nearby transit stops. But being able to tie into the route avenue allows a greater bit of flexibility that you don't find on the other properties fronting Futurall.
 Another comment worth noting is although the property does have water available to it up to the south, it does not have immediate access to it. So there would be a water extension required to be able to provide water service to this site.
 Ultimately, on the balance of considerations, staff did support this request and did recommend denial of the other three locations. The Planning Commission concurred, forwarding this item unanimously and denying the other
 and the other three rezoning requests along future on this area there is a strong preference among those who have commented that they would like to see this area remain undeveloped for both its natural resources and and its aesthetic resources so i think that's a good point and i think that's a good point and i think that's a good point
 And I'm happy to take any questions that the council may have. And we have an applicant, I believe, is online from Clark Law Firm. It should be Peyton Bentley. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have ten minutes. Mr. Blanton. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, council members. My name is Peyton Bentley, and I'm an attorney with Clark Law Firm. And I represent the applicant on this request.
 I would strongly encourage you to vote to approve this rezoning request and thereby agree with the city staff and the planning commissioners who voted unanimously to recommend approval. As the city staff noted, this request to rezone the property from RS4 to CS is compatible with the land use in the area right now and is also consistent with the future land use map and the city's goals for 2040.
 We changed this request from the UT that was previously before the court, before the council to CS based on comments from the planning commissioners at the previous summer of 2021 meeting. That CS would be more appropriate and more compatible with the land use map. So our clients heard them loud and clear and made this request, which the planning commissioners and city staff
 And for those reasons, we'd ask that you approve that request. And I will try to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? We have questions for staff. Is storage allowed in CS? No, it is not by right or a conditional use. Okay. What's the max height allowed in CS? Five stories. Okay. Thank you. And then, if you're not sure, you can ask the staff.
 What other questions do we have in the council? Do we have any topography illustrations? I know it looks like about half of it is in Hilltop overlay, but is there like a, to show like the grade? Certainly I can have that pulled up in just one moment.
 The main thing I'm thinking is just runoff, you know, just there and it's just pretty steep. I used to live right in those RMF 18 zone area. And, you know, it's pretty dense through there. So we just don't want to exacerbate any issues. So I'm just kind of curious about how steep it goes. I guess if it's hilltop overlay, then, you know, yeah, that's what I was thinking about a third of it.
 Yes, and to narrate a little bit, the green hatching you see here with the stair-step pattern, that's the portion that's in hillside, hilltop overlay. The dark brown lines represent, I believe at this scale, they're 20-foot contour intervals.
 So it's about 1300 feet at the south property line where indicating here as an elevation and about 1360 here. Yeah, it's very steep. That's what I remember. Okay, awesome. Thank you. Other questions we have in the council? Mayor, I have another question. Jonathan, am I correct to remembering that community services has a 20% tree canopy requirement? That is correct.
 And I'm guessing that none of the city foresters have been out there at this stage to evaluate the tree canopy that's in there. Is that also correct? Not, certainly not formally that I'm aware of, but the submittal or anything, the applicant may be able to speak to whether they asked the foresters to visit the property as a courtesy, which they sometimes are able to do.
 That was a question for Mr. Bentley. Did you hear the question? Yes, I did. And at this time, there hasn't been in that request. Okay. Thank you. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute duration. Stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those...
 participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan. First up, we have Dot Neely. Okay, go ahead. Hello. I'm a resident at 1244 North Mission Boulevard in Fayetteville. I'm a resident of Ward 3. I am looking at this area and taking in the...
 predominance of tree canopy in this 9.2 acre area and the factoring in the slope which i have physically seen i've been to in person and and walked the area and i just cannot
 And so I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point.
 And it's a buffer zone between the existing areas now that are of high density along Martin Luther King Boulevard and immediately adjacent to this 9.2 acre parcel. So I urge the city council to take the initiative
 this into great consideration and i would like to talk to each of the city council members about this but um our stormwater issues have have become uh pretty significant and this will only exacerbate those problems that's it okay thank you who else do you have lisa orton you go ahead
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hall, Soul Road in Ward 4.
 And now I clicked on the link underneath this in the agenda and I didn't see my letter and there are probably other letters unless this isn't updated, but I know that there's some people who've written letters about this that aren't in that link. But I ask you to please oppose this upzoning of this Barnes South parcel.
 On the north side of the Barnes South parcel is the 39 acre intact urban forest, which is being preserved or being in the process of being put in a conservation easement with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust by a specialized real estate group. And on the west side is Highway 49. And on the east side is intact urban forest. And on the south side is a two-story apartment complex with trees there.
 And this upzoning of the Barnes parcel to CS, there can be, it's possible that they'll be able to build five-story buildings and there'd be the lights and the noise and the vehicles and all that's possible. And that doesn't make sense next to this intact urban forest nature preserve. Plus the possible five-story buildings will interfere with the wooded hills that travelers see when they enter Fayetteville on Highway 49.
 And, you know, this precious remaining green hills of Fayetteville warm people's hearts when they think of our special city. And I just, let's just not deforest any more land in Fayetteville for development.
 Yeah, as you probably know, Markham Hill contains approximately 300 acres of intact urban forest in the very middle of Fayetteville. And this is really special. It's the last large acreage of woods inside Fayetteville. This is unique and worth saving for development for ecological, environmental, drainage reasons, historical reasons, and to keep Fayetteville that green city that we all love.
 Plus, there are several early 20th century ruins and at least two known Native American sites on Markham Hill worth honoring. And these 300 acres consist of the 144 acres that Friends of Markham Hill have been trying to save that used to belong to Evangeline Pratt Waterman Archer's family and now belongs to Markham Hill Residential and Markham Hill Hospitality Owners LLC.
 And then there are also in these 300 acres are the 62 to 63 acres belonging to the city that used to belong to the university, before that to Joy Pratt Markham. And then the remaining acreages of this wooded forest area.
 Hill are families like the Johnsons and Felicia Ferris, the Barnes, Watson, Marinoni, Nichols and those people that families have kept their properties wooded for many years. And so this is a really special place. And we're hoping we can save the entire Markham Hill intact urban forest from development for health, safety and enjoyment of Fayetteville residents and wildlife for years to come.
 And development keeps eating away at our tree cover, creating unhelpful, impervious surfaces, unclean water, water issues. And we don't want this done bit by bit to Markham Hill, nor any of the other remaining urban forests in Fayetteville. There are other places where development can take place, like already destroyed land and impervious surfaces and within already commercialized areas. So it's not like...
 we're against infill is just doing it in the right places. We don't need to develop in areas that need to be, that have to be deforested in order to do it. So, and, and as they said in August, 2021, the city council opposed the rezoning requests on the three Barnes parcels on the side of Markham Hill. And, and I'm thankful that the planning commission denied the Watson and the Barnes parcel over on the, on,
 I'm asking that you please oppose this barn self up zoning request. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No one else on Zoom, Mayor. I do want to make note of the item that Ms. Ordon referred to not being in the packet was actually embedded in Jonathan Kurth's submittal. So it's on page 18 of your packet. The letter is included there. Thank you, Susan. Thank you, Susan.
 Okay. Nobody else on Zoom? Okay. Anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this issue? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now, council, this is an ordinance. And what discussion or action items would you all like to take? Mr. Ward 1, have you heard anything? Anything?
 Yes, I've heard a lot. We all have. Yes. Okay. I believe we all have. And yes, Lisa, I see your letter here on page 18 and several other letters in opposition. Okay. Unless anybody has any questions, I move we...
 uh suspend the rules and go to the second reading um i before we do that um i just wondered if
 I missed this sort of an agenda session, but I'm, you know, this slope over here is very steep. And I'm wondering if it would be helpful if we held this on the first reading and actually had a tour next week. I don't know if any of my other council members would like to do something like that, but I thought I would bring it up at this time since those slopes are quite steep. I would support holding it up.
 There is a public outcry that's pretty loud, and we need to balance that against what is possible here. And always, whenever I look at zoning, I look at the worst possible situation that would be allowed by right. And there is a lot of heritage in this property. It is quite a slug, so we've got to be very mindful of the impact of stormwater runoff. There's...
 i think an opportunity to develop it but i'm not sure this is the perfect zoning for that property i don't want to prevent it from being developed but i want it to be developed responsibly
 To me, when you drive into Fayetteville, this was mentioned, and I do think that it's at least something that I think about. You do see Markham Hill, and it is a landmark, almost like the University of Arkansas welcoming you to Fayetteville. And to put a five-story building here, I think it's something I consider. I don't think it's the end-all, be-all, but it is impacting that welcoming experience.
 And very well-known view of Markham Hill, in a way, it will impair it. So I need to think about this. I need to put some logistics into it. And so if we could hold it, I would appreciate it. There's some people I need to, more people I need to talk to regarding the topography, the hydrology, the...
 natural elements that are in this area before I can make a decision? Well, this is probably one of the rare cases that I'm against CS. With no transition coming up the hill and the hillside, I would actually be a no right now. So I need to see some form of transition as we move up there. This is what you see when you come into Fayetteville.
 I know that there was a big fight over what happened on top of the hill, but we pushed the development farther up where you don't see it and preserved a lot of this view scape. So I can't vote to allow five story buildings moving up there. So I agree we can hold it and hopefully get something that I can vote for.
 I wouldn't mind holding it, but I was also going to be a no as well. So if we want to go walk around on it, but if I get there late, I want you to wait for me this time. Don't leave me wandering around in a field by myself. Thank you. Okay. All right. We may have a couple of you for the look at.
 another I have another one might be of interest to you as well but that all being said so so we'll hold it right here then that's a public comment I did yes I did yes I did okay well let's go on to number four there really quick do you want to do we want to discuss maybe having a tour or do you want to wait to do that at the end can we wait till kind of finish up sure
 Thank you. And if I forget, would you remind me? I will. Okay.
 Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-092 located south of 375 North Ripple Road for approximately 5.34 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services and approximately .34 acres from CS Community Services to RA Residential Agricultural, KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, ARC hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map and the legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to C.S. Community Services and from C.S. Community Services to R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 at the city council city of favor by men's official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay john thank you mayor between last week's agenda session and this evening i was contacted by the applicant who who asked that the council hold the item tonight they're not able to attend and so i can do a full presentation on the first and the applicant can present their side of it at that time as well if it's the council's wishes
 So the wishes of the African is to hold this one as well. Yes, Mayor. Okay. So I assume that's okay with the council. That's in Ward 4, Holly, Teresa. Everybody good? Yes. Just say yes, Mayor. Yeah, sounds good. Yes, that sounds good. Okay, great. All right, we will hold that one too. Let's go on to number five.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-089, located south of 1936 South Shiloh Drive for approximately 9.11 acres from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to CES Community Services. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from I-1, Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Jonathan? Jonathan Allen, Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville, just inside the border of Ward 4, Interstate 49 to the east represents the border between the two wards here. More specifically, this is at the southern end of North Shiloh. If you were to take a left from Mount Comfort and head south on Shiloh, this property is where it dead ends.
 It is characterized by some low tree canopy. And as you can see in the aerial image here, there's also some floodplain on the property associated with a tributary to the Hamestream Creek, which it feeds into further to the west.
 The property touches right away at three different locations. Granted, they're not all fully improved. To the north, of course, is Shiloh, which is the most immediate access to the property. To the west is River Ridge, and to south is an unbuilt Sycamore right away, which is actually the location of the Hamstring Trail, which represents the southern borders of this property.
 One unique piece of this property is that there are some master plan connections and our master street plan and our active transportation plan. I'll go into that here a little bit more. But you can see that in the orange dashed line for the planned street and the light green thinner weight line immediately parallel to it for the planned trail connection.
 The request before Council tonight is to rezone the property from I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to C-S community services. When looking at this from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did find it or does find it to be compatible. Certainly more than the existing industrial zoning district. While there is some warehousing to the northeast.
 This is definitely industrial zoning is not as compatible with the residential neighborhood to the northwest or the potential to have a street connector through here that would best be served by a greater mixture of residential and commercial zoning districts or uses. Excuse me.
 So, we're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property. We're looking at the future of the property.
 with no associated development and no increased in industrial development to the Northeast, where again, it's largely offices and some light industrial warehouse uses. When looking at it from a perspective of city plan 2040,
 Staff found this to be complimentary. The request to see us is complimentary to the potential to add a diversity of housing in this area. There are a large number of employment opportunities. Even if this property was only connected to Mount Comfort to the north, there's a large number of jobs in this area. It has immediate ready access to Interstate 49, which can connect this property to the wider region, not just the wider city.
 The infill rating, however, is fairly low to moderate. This reflects its location kind of straddling two major transportation corridors with not a significant amount of development around it. It does have access to water, sewer, parks, and trail. That floodplain on the property counts against it. And then it does have a...
 uh certainly well served by the fire department and will be even more so after the finished construction of the new fire station at police headquarters at porter and dean some items that came out of the city council tour on i guess it was just yesterday i'm sorry yesterday afternoon there were questions about the some more details on the the connections intended in this area uh circling back to the map i showed you earlier
 You can see the orange dashed line, which is the street connection on the left-hand side and the light green dashed line for the trail connection. If a developer were to come through on this property, it's quite likely that this could complement those connections from a street perspective. Right-of-way would be dedicated at a very minimum. It's possible that the street could be extended as well onto this property.
 But also present potentially the opportunity for the city to work with the developer to complete this connection as well, which is which which anyone who's been in this area knows that there's not a lot of north south connectivity opportunities between Ruble to the west and Lewis immediately to the east.
 As far as the trail connection goes, this can function either independently or collaboratively with that street connection. Trails tend to have lower impacts on things like floodplains. There's always a possibility that the developer could dedicate easement for the trail or perhaps contribute to some of its construction.
 So staff has looked at it at least at a high level of the possibility of trail being built separately, but also being included if a bridge were to be built and what that would look like if it were included with the decking work on a bridge. So those are not plans that have moved forward very far because there's a lot of missing pieces in this area, like this piece of property and rezoning it could represent the opportunity to move forward with that possibility.
 Another item that came out of the tour was a question of tree canopy. This request would increase the preservation requirement for 15% under the industrial zoning to 20% under CS.
 Also, it is noteworthy if you've had an opportunity to look at historical aerial imagery or a business site independently, you've probably noticed that a lot of the canopy is quite young. If you go back about 10, 20 years from now, there's almost no canopy on the site at all. There were very few trees and this was cleared area up until recently.
 And last, that main item I took away from the tour was a question of setbacks. There was concern with the residential subdivision to the west and how CES zoning district would relate to that.
 While that subdivision is zoned for multifamily, which allows up to five stories, it's currently developed with single story duplexes. As you may recall from the last item, community services does allow for buildings up to five stories, and it has reduced setbacks in the rear of the property. It can go down to a theoretical zero feet, although building code would likely prevent it from a building from being placed right on the property line.
 So it is certainly a consideration and something that was discussed in the field yesterday. Otherwise, I'd encourage a council member who attended to add anything else that I've skipped upon.
 Ultimately, staff does recommend in favor of the request. We do find the community services zoning district to be more appropriate here than the existing industrial zoning district. The planning commission agreed by a unanimous vote of nine to zero, forwarding it to council. They also felt the request was compatible. Much of their conversation revolved around the potential connections and how this request could complement that.
 And to date, I've not received any public comments on this item. We have not heard any of the planning commission either. And I believe the applicant's representative there tonight is Elisa Sims. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Hi, Alyssa Sims. I don't have a whole lot to add. You did a great job summarizing it. So as you said the request is compatible with the surrounding property. In addition to these two parcels, the owner also holds title to a third parcel that's contiguous with these two.
 And that parcel is already zoned MF24. So the subject property joins an 82 unit duplex community and also joined by the Hamstring Trail to the south is approximately a quarter mile from the Razorback Greenway and is sidewalk accessible. So the requested change is important to the growth of the area and meets the goal for
 The city plan is 2040 and it provides excellent infill opportunity and the uses that are permitted by right within the community service zoning provide for a better use for this property than the current zoning of industrial. We ask for your support for this change. Thank you. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Mayor, if I may, I'm the council member that took the tour yesterday. I'm sure you guys probably figured that out. And we, I appreciate the applicant allowing us to tour and also Jonathan being there. That was extremely helpful to me.
 There are a lot of low-lying areas in there, that floodplain, you can definitely see that. You can see where floods have happened because there's some trash and debris in there. The tree canopy, these are new trees. There's not any really old trees that are in there.
 And so I personally don't have concerns about these new trees because, again, there's not, there's really not any old growth or anything, even really fully mature trees that have been there for a while.
 My only concern is the potential for five stories and how that might impact the existing neighborhood off to the west. But I found that since it's so close to the trail and we do need some connectivity there, that it was a very good tour. Okay. What other questions do we have from the council? All right, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five minute duration. Please stay on topic. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this? Yes.
 so now i'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what action items are discussing with the council like to have
 While I think CS is just slightly a little more than the surrounding area, I think it's fundamentally better than I-1. I think that would be terrible if it was built out as I-1, especially given the flood plain and the potential for materials or minerals to be taken and swept off into the stormwater. So I'll be for this and hopefully we can vote on this tonight.
 holly have y'all heard anything from the ward um i have not and i would tend to be in support of this as well okay i have not heard anything um from from anybody okay okay all right move to suspend rules and go to second reading second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading care would you please call the row lunch yes
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. And in order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 21-089, located south of 1936 South Shiloh Drive, for approximately 9.1 acres, from I-1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to CS Community Services.
 move suspend rules and go to third and final reading second motion second third and finally cabbage please call her up yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes
 and ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-089 located south of 1936 south shiloh drive for approximately 9.1 acres from i-1 heavy commercial line industrial to cs community services what final comments do we have in the council
 have a quick quick comment I do I do think that this is a better zoning than than what it currently is one concern I do have for those homes there I don't know with the Arbor barrier that's happening there the sound from 49 I'm sure that's helpful for them but since Teresa
 and she said it's new growth, it's probably not helping a whole lot. So that's one thing I'm thinking about just because it looks like a peninsula there with trees and it's helpful for the people that live right next to the highway. But one thing I do, I'm glad though for community services, maybe they won't have to drive so far to get services. So that's a good thing. But I just wanna keep that in mind because I've lived right next to 49 and always thought there should be trees there to help with sound.
 So I hope maybe the plans can think about that for those residences. I guess if there's five-story buildings there, though, that probably helps with the sound as well. So that's my last comment. Okay. Any other final comments? Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, number six. In ordinance to approve a residential planned zone district entitled R-PZD 2021-006 for approximately 3.83 acres located at 500 North Sequoia Drive. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1.
 that the city council or the city of fable arkansas hereby approves rpzd 2021-006 as described in exhibits a b and c attaching the planning division's agenda memo which allows the development of 3.83 acres for residential units
 Section 2 that this CPCD approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, parkland dedication must be reviewed by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board with the associated lot split and development. Subsection or number 2, any proposed lots without frontage shall provide adequate access for water, sewer, and emergency services. And number 3, proposed fire apparatus access road shall meet requirements as stated by all applicable fire codes.
 section 3 that the official zoning map the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby is amended to reflect the zoning change criteria change provided in section 1 above John thank you mayor this property is in East Central Fayetteville it's in Ward 1 about 1 mile northeast of the Fayetteville City Square
 It includes an odd property shape that's largely the result of a history of some lot splits that are done on the property to create some developable properties along Sequoia Drive, which is on the western border of the site. Another unusual result or cause of the lot split, which was discussed in agenda, or the lot shape, which was discussed in agenda session, is a flag of land along the northern portion of the property that stretches out to Sequoia Drive.
 That represents the need for the houses on the lot to have access to the existing water and sewer infrastructure that's located on Sequoia while keeping those service lines on the properties with the homes with which they're associated with.
 As far as the character of the property, it's currently developed with one single family home that's pretty centrally located on the property, and it's intended to stay with this request, despite being along the top of the property.
 It is fully within the hillside Hilltop overlay district. It was on the council may not know or call the hillside Hilltop district isn't always indicative of slopes. It can also be indicative of the soils underneath them. And so it's a pretty good example of that.
 which may not always be appropriate for development, or if they are appropriate for development, having heightened construction standards, which in this place or in this particular property would need some more robust building footers or basically the foundation work of the buildings. The request before the council tonight
 So, we had a conversation with the property owner and staff, and they began with a conversation between the property owner and staff, wanting to identify ways to develop the property. Going back and forth, there was initial conversations about building or developing the property as a conventional subdivision, which would require a typical city street, which is fairly wide.
 And increasingly, the questions pointed towards trying to develop the site in the least impactful way possible to the existing tree canopy and again to the sensitive soils on the property. And that led to a planned zoning district as the tool to do that.
 I think council has most commonly seen PZDs used as a tool to add a lot of detail to large pieces of property that would otherwise be difficult to anticipate what it's going to look like for the policy makers. This instance is more a way of using PZD to have the minimum amount of impact and create the flexibility in our developed codes that could possibly see a site develop more sensitively.
 which in this case means a proposal to develop three houses on the property on approximately one acre each. Despite the RSF4 zoning district currently there, which would entitle them to about four times the density if it was developed conventionally, the applicant has stayed true to their intent.
 And he does want to keep it very low density. And then there's a potential for one additional lot in the future where you can see on the far eastern side of the property, there's a large lot created, but with no intent to develop it today.
 From a compatibility standpoint, staff does find this request to complement the existing area, neighboring properties. Again, the proposal, it tends to keep very large lots still, about an acre in size, which is very common in this part of Fayetteville, larger lots located along Sequoia, particularly given the terrain, some of the development challenges that can be found up there.
 from a long-range standpoint. This request speaks in odd ways to our long-range plans, maybe a generous way to say it. Our future land use map does designate it as a residential neighborhood area, which would typically encourage a higher, higher,
 uh diversity of housing types and opportunities uh but at this particular location it does not appropriate given the sequoia is a a fairly narrow street the the opportunities for water and sewer connection are are not as much as they would be in other parts of the city that have this designation uh so ultimately staff found that this very very incremental um increase in developed potential of the property is complementary of that future land use map designation
 The infill rating reflects the possibility that this is not an appropriate place for high intensity, high density development.
 that the applicant's proposal for one unit per acre is exactly in line with that standard. From a city plan 2040 perspective, this does again represent an opportunity for a very, very incremental amount of infill with such a low infill score. Appropriate infill represents very small amounts of housing added to a piece of property and on a sensitive area
 that those small footprints or that those few footprints is complimentary. Again, when looking at this, some of the considerations staff had were the lot sizes and configuration or the existing lot size and configuration. One nuance of the property is that the applicant or the proposals, the applicant's PZD proposes that no lots have to have access to a city street like would normally be found in most of our zoning districts
 Instead, the applicant is proposing to build a fire code compliant driveway with as narrow footprint as possible weaving between some of the major trees on the property. This has been initially vetted by our fire department along with our utility department in an effort to straighten out some of the...
 the configurations of existing water and sewer service lines to make it as efficient as possible with disturbing the minimum amount of land on the property.
 With these considerations in mind, staff does recommend approval of the PZD as requested. The Planning Commission agreed unanimously forwarding the proposal to Council. They felt this was an atypical but appropriate use of the PZD to develop a subdivision that may otherwise have much greater impacts under our existing zoning standards.
 We have received some public comments on the request. It is almost entirely been inquiries, but we have had at least one statement of support from a neighboring property owner. And with that, I am happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe the applicant there is James Struthers. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Thank you all for your time. I'm James Struthers with Polk Stanley Wilcox Architects, and I'm representing the property owner at 500 North Sequoia Drive. I'm also an adjacent property owner. I think planning has pretty well summed it up, but I'll just add that our goal here is to provide access to the proposed lots on the property with a low impact private drive consistent with the existing infrastructure of Mount Sequoia.
 infrastructure has been located to mitigate impact on existing trees as much as possible and designed to promote green space permeable area and mitigate runoff We believe the proposed infrastructure and the development guidelines established in the PZ to be appropriate Appropriate and in harmony with the surrounding Montsequoia community I appreciate all your time and I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Okay, what questions does council have for the applicant or staff? Okay
 Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one, turn it to Mike. You have five minute duration. Stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or a council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Then those that are here in person after that. Who have on Zoom? Susan. Scott Terry. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you. I am the adjacent, I'm sorry, my address is 2415 Frontier Elm in Fayetteville. I own the property that's in the northwest corner just outside the PZD and immediately south of that flag property that extends out to Sequoia. I did write a letter in support of the PZD.
 And part of that is in anticipation of the new sewer line that will be placed in the PZD. That will then be able to be used for some of the existing structures as well as the new anticipated structures. That will then permit the two private sewer lines running through those flags to be abandoned
 and then hopefully we can negotiate to be able to purchase that flag and extend our lot further to the north at that time. So I'm in support of the project and would be happy to answer any questions if you have any for me. Thank you. Okay, who else do we have, Susan? No one else on this topic. Does anyone here in person like to address us on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Sonja, you all heard anything? Thank you.
 I haven't. I haven't. Okay. I do have a question. By going the PZD route, are they skirting any stormwater regulations? Is there anything of that nature?
 Mayor, I can take that one. The PZD org specifically sets our existing development code as a baseline. PZDs are not allowed to go beneath that. They can apply more stringent standards on themselves. So PZDs are typically used to give themselves more zoning flexibility, not development standard flexibility. Okay. It seems like the neighbors are okay with this, so I'll be in support of it. Okay. Well. Yeah.
 It is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. That's why I was asking Ward 1. Right. It's DeAndre. DeAndre, have you heard anything from anybody on this? No, Mayor Jordan, I have not. Okay. So what discussion or action items would the council like to take? I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care which police call the roll? Banks. Yes. Third. Second.
 Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. An ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 2021-006 for approximately 3.83 acres located at 500 North Sequoia Drive.
 I like this it's better the roles and go to the third final reading second second well motion to second to go third and final reading here would you please call the roll bench yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes
 and nornet's approved a residential planned zoning district entitled rpzd 2021-006 for approximately 3.83 acres located at 500 north sequoia drive what final comments do we have in the city council on
 I do want to commend the staff and the applicant to have the PZD. That is so helpful. And I can see there's a lot of thought and consideration for the existing trees. And that means it speaks a lot to me.
 I like that it's staying wooded upon the entrance. I walk that road quite a bit. So, you know, for me as a pedestrian, it's nice. The actual design of the spaces look amazing. So I want to commend you for allowing the residents. And I really think that's why a lot of the neighbors aren't here because they're not worried because they can see what the plan is. So thank you for that. With that, I'll support it.
 Okay. Any other final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. All right. Let's go to number seven. A resolution to express the intent of the city council to sell a
 approximately 30.06 acres of city property located in the commerce district evan thank you mayor to get my screen share up good evening council members my name is steven hallam director of economic vitality for the city of fayetteville
 The item before you tonight, for your consideration, is a resolution of intent to sell 17.46 acres of city-owned commerce park land to be unlimited, as well as an option to purchase an additional 12.6 acres to the north within two months of closing. There are so many businesses in the city of Fayetteville that are so deeply woven into the fabric of our city, it's kind of hard to imagine our economy without them.
 And for us, when it comes to employers, V Unlimited most certainly checks that box. V Unlimited was founded right here in Fayetteville, and what started as a small screen printing business has turned into a significant employer that serves over 250 college campuses across the country. They provide over 180 jobs at a living wage in South Fayetteville, including 30 full-time artists. Over the years, V Unlimited has experienced remarkable growth, and their continued growth is the driver behind this project.
 Staff is working as fast as possible given the constraints faced on their current location. Within the city's economic vitality efforts, retaining quality jobs is an extremely high priority. When a retention project hits our department or the chamber, we drop everything we're doing and begin addressing the needs of that employer. Over these phase one, over this next few, four years, excuse me, or few years, the Unlimited plans to hire an additional 50 employees and phase one capital investment is at $5.5 million.
 One of the facets of this project that professionally I'm so excited about is the expanded draw to the area specifically that Be Unlimited can bring, such as mutually beneficial businesses and helping us meet some of our most pressing site challenge needs for the development of right-size places for small businesses. The exhibit shows the development site, which is outlined in yellow, as well as the option site in neon blue to the north. These parcels are right of way for the upcoming industrial drive project.
 Focusing on the development site, the offer is $278,000. That equates to roughly $15,940 an acre, given the two-acre pond in size is not usable to them.
 We wanted to assure the council we'll be including language for conservation easement and the land sale agreement, which will be returned to you for your consideration at a future date. This site's home to their headquarters, production, distribution facilities, et cetera. And an important item of note is this site does not have access via the means of the city until the industrial drive extension is complete and the applicant is aware of
 The option site located immediately to the north of the site we just discussed is 12.6 acres to be purchased at a firm price of $18,000 per acre within 12 months. At the mayor's direction, urban forestry has provided a property given the portion looked wooded. With the exception of the old fence row you can see in the top third of the site that bisects the property, the property is full of invasive species.
 Something we're extremely excited about, we mentioned during the agenda section, there's one aspect that we discovered in the process of exploring these land sales. And that is this 13.1 acre tract of very, very mature old growth fruit. See them back to our oldest imagery in 1965. Given this project finishes out this area of the Commerce Park, we are excited to preserve this tract of timber. It's not a bank. This is just tree preservation.
 connecting it to the existing tree preservation area to the east. Should this resolution of intent be passed, a separate item will be negotiated and a land sale agreement will be brought to you for your consideration. Public notification for the City Code will begin immediately. In closing, I also want to express all the City staff that worked so hard, including the Chamber, to help us move as quick as possible on this project, as well as Chum Tan for her work to date and to come managing this project.
 Lastly, Cameron Clark, who's representing V Unlimited with Bennett Commercial Real Estate. And most certainly not least, Ben Clark and the entire V Unlimited team for wanting to continue to call Fayetteville home. I'm happy to answer any questions, Mayor. Thank you, Council, for your consideration. And the applicant is here. Would the applicant like to speak before the Council? You have ten minutes. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Ben Clark.
 I just really want to thank you. I'm a man of little words, but it's been cool to see my journey and the support the city has given me throughout the years of growing a business here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I really just want to be up here to answer any questions that anyone has. Sure. Sure. What questions do we have from the council or the staff?
 I have a few questions. Devin, could you put some slides back up, especially the slide that showed the parcel that we're talking about right now? Not the option parcel, but the main parcel.
 So, I'm wondering about this piece, the one that's on the northwest portion right there. Has the Urban Forester had a chance to go out and survey that portion? You discussed that the other portions, the option portion was full of invasive species, but just from viewing this, it looks kind of like there's a lot of trees on there. So, it would be helpful if you had any information on that area.
 We can't. You're muted. I knew I was going to do that one day. I'm sorry about that. John Scott has not done an assessment on this portion. We did the door. When I walked this, we noticed there are a heavy mix of pines and cedars. And so, when this goes through large scale, this would likely be the target for tree preservation, as well as this potential of this road on this side of hardwoods. But we do not have an assessment on that portion of this site at this time.
 Okay, and then could you also explain a little bit more about the 13 acres that you mentioned later in the presentation? That one right there, how would that work exactly if you could walk us through? And is that, I mean, you kind of mentioned invasive species about that. So I'm wondering where the invasive species are versus where there's actually some really good mature trees worth preserving.
 Absolutely. Councilmember Kirk, can you all see my mouse cursor? We're having some trouble understanding you. Oh, excuse me. Can you all see my mouse cursor on the screen? Yes. Okay, perfect. I'm going to take my cursor over the area where the assessment was done. It was actually bigger than this site, and this is the one that was full of invasives. And so that rides this, with the exception of that fence row.
 And so, this preservation area would be run by staff. We're actually working with John Scott right now on going through that steps of the process to get that through its approvals. And we're going to go ahead and order a survey and get this, get the, get the information out to the public. And then we'll go ahead and get the information
 So, we're going to have to get the various land sale or the land coordinates so that we can make this permanent. And given that tree preservation easements don't come to the city council, we wanted to make you all aware that this was how we were going to finish off this area. So, I have a follow-up question for that. So, to make that permanent, it would be a conservation easement. Is that or would the city purchase that land?
 We own that property right now. It was acquired for the purposes of expanding the Commerce Park many years ago. However, it is a more sensitive habitat in this 13-acre tract. The floodway comes through here and covers a great deal of the site. So we own that property, so we would be the ones filing that tree preservation easement on that site.
 Okay, so if the, I'm sorry, I'm really slow tonight. So if this, if B Unlimited exercised this option and purchased the property, then that tree preservation would be part of the deed and would stipulate no trees would be cut in that area. Is that correct? Yes.
 Oh, I apologize. Let me provide some clarity now. You can see the option site. This 13 acres is not included in that. It abuts it. And so we're going to give ourself access. And so this, the 13 acre tree preservation is not tied to this land sale agreement. We just wanted to make you aware as staff, that's something we're about, we are working on right now separately from this. Thank you for clearing that up for me. I appreciate it. You're welcome.
 One of the questions we have in the council. Yeah, I think we should do what we can to help the company. I know this is an intent, so we'll see numbers later, but hopefully, I assume it almost legally has to, we'll come with an appraisal and
 i assume the appraisal would need to value the land with a road in there because obviously an appraisal of land you can't access is almost nothing but i definitely want to see an appraisal based on having the ability to get to it when we get to that point but i definitely support the uh the intent we can take care of that councilman striding so you heard anything on this positive um
 We haven't taken public comment yet, have we? Any other questions from the council? Okay. Everybody gets one. Turn it to Mike. You have a five-minute duration. Please stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 No one, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in person here who would like to speak on this? Hello, Mr. Mayor, Council. My name is Taylor Shelton. I'm the new Chief Economic... Taylor, you can drop your mask. Okay. Thank you. You can feel more comfortable. Appreciate it. Hello, everybody. My name is Taylor Shelton. I'm speaking on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce as the new Chief Economic Development Officer. We are very pleased to support this resolution of intent. The Unlimited is a Fayetteville-grown business. We are very excited to see them continue to grow in Fayetteville, keep the jobs, and
 uh here in town this is a major support to our creative economy something that we have identified as a major sector that we want to try and pursue and so we are very thankful for all the jobs that they provide in that sector i have a lot of artists that i've known work with the unlimited they are
 wonderful organization to work with. They do a lot for our local community, not only the clients that you saw that they work with across the nation, but they're very much local mindset business. And so we appreciate everything they've done for our community. We're particularly excited for all the development and growth that we're gonna be experiencing in the commercial district, especially that the tree preservation. So hats off to Devin and the team for making the moves necessary to make sure that that can move forward.
 They're a great example. Being limited is a great example of an employer who cares about their workforce, their community, and the impact they have on the area. They're always great to work with, and we commend them for all the work that they've done. We look forward to seeing them succeed. So we look forward to seeing a support of this resolution of intent. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Yes.
 okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution so what's the wishes of the council what discussions like that mayor have one comment um devin do you think that um john scott would be able to do that uh inventory on that that northwest section prior to land sale uh or prior to it being brought back to us
 Absolutely, I'll make sure of it. Okay. We'll probably have that very fast. I've noticed he gets that quickly, and we can get that to y'all even before that. Thank you so much. You're welcome.
 I just really just want to thank Chung and Devon and the team for working with Be Unlimited because they are an excellent business in our community that does employ artists or former students of mine so that's pretty awesome and there I want to just note in here that it does say retention of 180 jobs at an average of $20 per hour with nearly annual payroll of 7.5 million creation of 50 jobs
 over the next three years, I would bring an annual payroll to about 9.5 million. And that's in our creative economy. And that's a Fayetteville grown business. And then I just want to, while I have the mic, I just want to say that congratulations on your award for being in the top 500 businesses, fastest growing businesses in the U.S.,
 um so that's awesome and that's another fayetteville business so this is amazing thanks everybody for your work and i look forward to to supporting this i move that we support that we pass the resolution second thank you in a second fast resolution any other final comments from the council
 Ben's got a great business and I spent some time over there looking at everything that he's doing. I mean, they're exploding, you know, with with growth and and and they're they're a homegrown business and
 really great, great folks to work with. Devin and, and the chamber and everybody has worked real hard on, on keeping everybody here and keeping everything going. Pays good wages. Folks get to do a lot of artistic type work there and it's just a real good business. I'm, I'm really thrilled to have them here. So thank you, Ben and staff and everything. All right. We've got a motion in a second and care which please call the roll. Thanks.
 Yes. Herc? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Thank you all very much. All right, let's move on to number eight.
 All right. An ordinance to waive former competitive ability and approve a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher LLC for additional low impact development measures to help alleviate downstream drainage issues on Fletcher Avenue with a refund in the amount of not to exceed $16,567.13 to be paid by the city of Federal. Kip.
 Whereas on May 10, 2021, the City of Fayetteville Planning Commission approved a conditional use permit to authorize the construction of townhomes between 310 and 326 North Fletcher Avenue. And whereas a condition of approval added by the Planning Commission requires that the development treat and slow the water flow from any additional impervious area proposed with the new development.
 And whereas in discussions with the developer, it was discovered that the plan was conducive to providing considerably more treatment in order to further remediate the drainage issues discussed during the conditional use permit approval process. And whereas the developer has agreed to install the additional improvements recommended by city staff.
 And because this treatment is above and beyond the requirements placed on the development, staff recommends a cost share in order to have the improvements completed. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists
 in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes mayor jordan to sign a cost share agreement with h fi fletcher llc for additional low impact development measures to help alleviate existing downstream drainage issues on fletcher avenue
 with a refund in an amount not to exceed $16,567.13 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville. Okay. Chris. Thank you, Mayor. I think that...
 I do want to add that during the public discussion, we did have several residents, neighbors, complain about existing drainage issues. And so this does help alleviate those drainage issues.
 The calculations I believe were provided to the council to kind of further explain how that came to be. Essentially, the developer is required to pay for the cost of their improvements to mitigate the impact of their storm drainage, the additional drainage they're creating. And then the city is picking up the difference to, again, help alleviate an existing drainage issue. And I can answer any questions. Thanks.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute duration. Stay on topic. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Okay, I don't see anybody in the chamber, so I will bring this back to council. So what discussion would council like to have and what action would they like to take? This is an ordinance.
 Yeah, I noticed the runoff. I think one of the heavy rains we had, I saw it coming down Lafayette and I was like, I bet you I know where that's coming from. So I've got substantial videos and pictures. This was what much needed. And I kind of agree with the city's assessment that this just wasn't the developer's fault. This is water that was running across their land beforehand.
 And I did see, I believe we've already done the work, or a substantial amount of work, and it is making a difference. But I do understand it is annoying to the neighbors when you have the water come, so I'm glad to see that we're trying to alleviate it, maybe in the arrears, but at least at some point. Absolutely.
 absolutely yeah i've heard had a lot of complaints in this area for a long time so happy to support this um we need to say we're in an ordinance yeah this is an ordinance yeah i mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have the motion to say to go to the second read care which please call the role bench yes turk yes hartzberg sorry turk uh yes
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes in order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with hfi fletcher llc for additional low impact development measures to help alleviate downstream drainage issues on fletcher avenue
 with a refund in the amount not to exceed $16,567.13 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Third? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon?
 Yes. Scriven. Yes. Add an ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher LLC for additional low-impact development measures to help alleviate downstream drainage issues on Fletcher Avenue with a refund in the amount not to exceed $16,567.13 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville. Okay. What final comments do we have in the Council on this?
 okay care which police call the row bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes scroggins yes okay thank you all number nine an ordinance to amend
 SECTIONS 156.03 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION, 166.02 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS, 168.07 PERMIT PROCEDURES, 168.09 APPEALS, AND 168.10 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION OF UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO ADDRESS INCORRECT REFERENCES CLARIFYING WHAT QUALIFIES EXISTING IMPERVIOUS AREA
 area and remove redundancies and ambiguities from the flood damage prevention code kit. Whereas on June 15, 2021, the City Council passed Ordinance 6446, making revisions to the City's stormwater regulations. And whereas since passage of Ordinance 6446, staff has identified some provisions that required clarification or the removal of redundant or ambiguous language.
 And whereas on June 10th, 2022, these revisions were presented to the Planning Commission, which voted unanimously to forward them to the City Council with a recommendation of approval. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal subsection C7 small c of section 5603 development parking and loading and an actual replacement subsections C7C as follows quote
 Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of a half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing items listed in Section 168.05b.4 have been fully considered.
 As the lot size increases beyond half acre, the technical justification requiring for issuing the variances increases, unquote. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal subsection C7G of section 15603, Development, Parking, and Loading, and an actual replacement subsection C7G as follows, quote,
 Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements, and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided that the provisions of Section 168.05.B.4 are considered, and that the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety."
 Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend subsection C7 of section 156, Development, Parking, and Loading by enacting a new subsection I as follows. Subsection I, Streamside Protection Zones. I, Undue Hardship.
 If the provision of the streamside protection zones are shown by the owner or developer to cause undue hardship, as strictly applied to the owner-developer's property because of its unique characteristics, the Planning Commission may grant a variance on a permanent or temporary basis from such provision so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest protected.
 provided that the variance will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the streamside protection regulations. Subsection double I, consideration of alternative measures. The applicant for the variance shall establish that a reasonable rezoning by the City Council or variance request from the Board of Adjustment will not sufficiently alleviate the claim to undue hardship caused by the streamside protection regulations.
 and subsection IIII conditions and safeguards. In granting any variance, the Planning Commission may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to substantially secure the objectives and purposes for which the regulations so varied and to mitigate any detrimental effects the variance may cause.
 The Planning Commission should consider the Streamside Best Management Practices Manual and any mitigation recommendations from the City Engineer. Section 4. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are by means of subsection C10 of section 15603, Development, Parking and Loading, by repealing it in its entirety. Section 5.
 that the city council the city of fayette larkshire hereby amend sub sub subsection e2 of section 166.02 development review process by repealing it and enacting a new subsection e2 and required re mitigation measures and documentation by development threshold table as shown in exhibit a attached here to you made a part hereof
 Section 6, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby repeals subsection C of section 168.07, Permit Procedures. Section 7, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amends section 168.08, Variances, by repealing it.
 and enacting a new section 168-08 as follows, quote, applicants may submit petitions for variances for the requirements of the variance chapter of the Unified Development Code, unquote. Section 8, at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby amends 168-09 appeals by repealing it and enacting a new section 168-09 as follows, appeals from staff interpretations and actions, quote,
 Applicants may appeal decisions of the floodplain administrator per the requirements of the appeals chapter of the Unified Development Code. Section 9, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby repeals subsection T5 of 168.10, provisions for flood hazard reduction, and renumbers the following subsections accordingly.
 Section 10 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend subsection U1 of 168.1.0 provisions for flood hazard reduction by repealing it and and next a new subsection as follows quote the applicant has provided a detailed hydrologic or hydraulic study performed by professional engineer licensed in the state of Arkansas which delineates the floodway
 the one percent chance of a in other words a hundred year flood plain boundary and the base flood elevations and demonstrates through a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that development will not increase flood flows flood heights or flood channel velocities on the subject property or any property upstream or downstream unquote
 Section 11. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section U of Section 168.10, provisions of flood hazard reduction by enacting a new subsection U4 as follows.
 subsection 4 provided that this shall not apply for a single accessory structure per lot placed on an existing grade no proposed fill material without a foundation and no larger than 150 square feet including storage sheds playground equipment gazebos etc that is not located within a regulatory floodway and constructed in compliance with the remainder of this code unquote
 Okay. Alan, what would you like to add to that? Thank you, Mayor, and I appreciate Kit going over that in detail.
 uh just kind of hit the highlights here as kit stated back in june of last year planning commission and council were available some pretty widespread changes to our storm work though that we thought were very beneficial for our residents um and then implementing those over the past several months we've been able to identify these few items that need to be tweaked if you will specifically in 156.
 There are two references there that are incorrect. Those are no longer applicable, so we're just revising those to make them reference the appropriate code sections. Just over the years with code changes, those were never revised. 168 had changed over time. We did receive one public comment with concern, just for the council's knowledge, over 156.03 item G.
 There is a relatively subtle change in some verbiage there, but we were replacing the terminology satisfied with considered, if you look at that in your packet. And speaking with the city attorney, we really didn't think the terminology satisfied was correct based on the reference that it has there, and thought considered would be more appropriate.
 And then that is also consistent with 156.03 item C, which also indicates that there are a list of items there that need to be fully considered. So just wanted to bring that to the council's attention. The rest of that's really just cleaning up some code issues in 156.
 And 166, the most substantial changes there are, we wanted to make sure that everyone understood what constituted existing impervious area. So just some situations that we had, we might have had certain lots that several years ago had gravel parking lots on them. Those had long since been abandoned and essentially returned to green space.
 But without that clarification, applicants could potentially begin to count that relic
 gravel area, if you will, towards their impervious, existing impervious area. So we wanted to make sure that we all understood the date in which an impervious area had to be existing in order to be counted. So that March 3rd date coincides with our 2021 aerials. So we have a really good baseline we've built with our 2021 aerial to be able to verify some of that information.
 In the chart below there, you can kind of see again some just general clarification of what exactly needs to be treated, proposed additional impervious gravel areas.
 168.07, specifically item C, was very redundant. We had two separate references to appeals, and those references were different. In talking with the city attorney, we really needed to consolidate those for a single appeal. It really does not substantially change the code or the way that things are appealed. It just clarifies that that is for the appeals section of our code.
 Kind of the same with variances, wanted to clean up any errors there. And really in 168.07, one of the major changes that you would see is consistent with the stream site protection zones,
 At the end of there, we wanted to allow some provision, mainly for residential properties, to be able to add accessory buildings and maybe small gazebos and decks and things like that without having to go through the burden of a flood study.
 Those impacts were going to be substantial. They're fairly negligible, if you will. And just didn't feel like we needed to put those residents through the time and expense of going through a full flood study to add a small accessory building. And again, that accessory building would be allowed in certain areas of our streamside protection zones. So, that language does mimic very closely what is allowed in streamside protection, specifically in the main zone.
 um be happy to answer any questions that the council may have okay what questions do we have from the council uh for alan so alan um that last comment that you made about accessory dwelling units i mean uh i would think that you would want to err on the side of caution
 because they can add up to 1,200 square feet. That's a substantial area. So I'm a bit surprised that y'all are supporting loosening those requirements for flood study.
 especially given that in our previous discussions a couple of weeks ago that clearly there are a lot of people that we've loosened the requirements on accessory dwelling units. The city is wanting to add more of those, and it would seem that some of those would be in flood-prone areas. So I question that logic there. 1,200 square feet is not a small area. Yeah.
 And I certainly appreciate that. And please allow me to clarify, I apologize in advance if I wasn't clear on that.
 There is a difference between what our code defines as an accessory dwelling unit and what FEMA defines as an accessory structure. So an accessory structure for FEMA's code is essentially storage buildings, small storage sheds, things like that. So we did clarify in the code proposed that those could be no larger than 150 square feet.
 So, relatively small shed is what we're talking about there. And I apologize for that, for that me not being 100% clear there. There is a slight difference there. We would still, if an accessory dwelling unit came in that was 1,200 square feet, even up to, we would propose that they continue down the path of having to provide some documentation that they're not negatively impacting the flow.
 Thank you. Maybe I misunderstood. So it may be on my side where the misunderstanding is. Thank you for clarifying that. I have heard from one person,
 about the changing the satisfied versus considered. And let's see, is that 7G, 156037G? It seems to me like considered is much, much less rigorous than satisfied.
 And I shared her concerns about kind of loosening that up a bit. And I wondered if you all discussed compliance, in compliance with or something like that, that would make it much clearer that it's not just, you know, we can kind of dismiss that once we consider it or it's our if we had a more rigorous standard that I would say satisfied the conveyed.
 Sure, and I may yield to the city attorney to a certain degree to that because I think we had worked together on that language. But part of the reason, or part of the concern was satisfied, at least in my opinion, was that some of the provisions that were being referenced in that section of code weren't
 from an engineering standpoint, for words that work to set criteria. I'll give you one example. One example was that, you know, we maintain emergency access to certain areas. In my opinion, that was a little bit subjective on the fact that we're not
 how those emergency vehicles access that area, what was considered the emergency access route and things like that. And I struggled with how you necessarily quote unquote satisfy that. But as a staff, I think we're open to recommendations there. We would certainly lean on the city attorney to make sure that they felt that was an appropriate change. But again, as a staff, I'm open to recommendations by the council if you're not comfortable with that one. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I talked to that same individual that evidently talked to Councilmember Turk today and kind of explained my position on that.
 This is in the variance chapter, and in the variance chapter, you don't put normally hard and fast rules because what you're trying to do in a variance chapter is actually give some relief from a hard and fast rule that might not be applicable or not needed in a particular situation. There are many things you should consider here.
 in a variance. And I also want to point to the language that comes right after the fact that you've got to consider all these other provisions
 It says, and that the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during base flood and create no additional threats to public safety. So I think that language is already quite strong enough. And I did suggest it become considered rather than satisfied because as our stormwater engineers explained, there might be something in there that that.
 would seem to deny a variance even when everybody would think, well, shoot, it should be granted, but I guess we can't because this one thing over here that's probably not relevant, but we can't satisfy it. And so I've always been in favor of trusting our staff and our planning commission to use their good judgment when they're trying to consider a variance
 and consider everything, but I don't want to tie their hands too much because it's very difficult
 when you're talking about development of land, to have a hard and fast rule that always applies, because sometimes if it applies, it's going to be creating an unjust result. So that's why I was the one that suggested that that be changed from satisfied to considered. I did speak, like I say, with the same individual you did this afternoon. She seemed, at that point, to understand
 why I had presented that to the our stormwater engineer and I still think that that's probably the best thing to do we got to make this is a variance and so we must have some discretion applied for the Planning Commission to apply these variances we don't want to try to tie their hands I think so thank you for that explanation
 I would like to hold this and work with you all in the next two weeks to see if we can ensure that that really is the best wording. Because I mean, as you all know, I'm very concerned about any stormwater flooding that we have. I just gave a presentation a couple of weeks ago where on average we're getting seven more inches per year in Fayetteville than we historically have.
 So we need to really start planning and I just have some concerns about loosening any kind of regulation. But if we could hold it here for the next meeting, I would appreciate it. And I would reach out to Alan and Kit and work with them on this. That's fine with me. So what do you all want to do? You know, I guess that's fine.
 I know that there's already been quite a little bit of thought put into the wording of this. So I'm kind of, you know, I understand Teresa's point. And I really do want to, you know, I do hope that we can get this right. I think that's very important.
 But I also do not want to, you know, I want to be careful about what we do try to put in there and listen to staff's recommendations on this as well. So I think it's fine to hold it. Okay, we'll just leave it here. Let's move on to number 10.
 An ordinance to amend ordinance number 6393 by removing section 3, which requires development approval and the posting of a bond before the mayor can sign the agreements for the new railroad crossing at Futrell Drive and Gray Avenue. Let me pick it up, open it up. Okay.
 whereas on december 15th of 2020 the city council approved ordinance number 6393 authorizing an agreement with the arkansas missouri railroad for a new railroad crossing at futrell drive and greg avenue and whereas section 3 of this ordinance provides quote
 Execution of these agreements shall be authorized upon development approval of a preliminary plan or large-scale development for the first phase of development with a minimum of 100,000 square feet of commercial space with posting of a bond to secure the construction of a connecting roadway to railroad crossing."
 and whereas the Washington Regional Medical System has purchased 15.22 acres adjacent to this proposed crossing, with the option to purchase an additional 25 acres in that area, but it will be several months before plans can be ready to be submitted for development review,
 and whereas Washington Regional has requested that the City Council remove the requirements of Section 3 of this ordinance to allow the City to move forward with the permitting and construction of the new railroad crossing prior to the development approval of the hospital expansion and without posting of any bond.
 now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one at the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends ordinance number 6393 by removing and repealing section three okay chris
 Thank you, Mayor. As you heard, this ordinance was passed in 2020, late 2020, and that stipulation, Section 3, was essentially to ensure that the city would receive a return on investment that we wouldn't install this crossing and then not see anything happen on the property.
 What we've seen since then is we've had several meetings with Washington Regional. They've obviously purchased the property and are actively moving forward with a large-scale development. It's a very large project, and so there's a lot of time needed to develop these plans and get ready to submit.
 And again, we met with their consultant and have lots of conversations. So from a staff standpoint, we're very confident that this stipulation will be met at some point in the near future.
 but it has not been met. And we're recommending approval of this change. That allows us to begin to work with the railroad more actively. We still got a little bit of permitting to do with the highway department, they're involved as well. So we've still got some more work to do. We can't finish that permitting until we have this contract signed. So it will help us with planning and moving forward with this crossing.
 And, Mayor, I believe there are a couple of representatives of Washington Regional that are in the audience that may or may not want to speak. I'm not sure if you want to consider them an applicant or the public, but I just wanted to put that out there, and I can answer any questions otherwise. Well, I was thinking, where were the applicants in this, Chris? Fair enough. Yeah, that's fine. I mean, I'm sorry.
 Am I missing something here? We did submit it. I mean, they requested it, sent us a letter and requested it, but we have submitted it as a staff item, yes. Certainly, during public comment, we'd like to hear from Washington Regional. They have five minutes. So what questions does the council have on this? We're trying to move these railroad crossings along, folks. I wish I could put it in another way, but we're trying to get these things built where we can get the development stuff going and moving. So...
 What questions do y'all have? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to mic. You have a five minute duration. Stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Birch Wright. Okay, go ahead, Birch.
 Good evening, Mayor. Thank you for the time. My name is Bert Schreit. For the purposes of this, 3215 North, North Hills Boulevard. I'm the Chief Operating Officer and Administrator at Washington Regional. And first and foremost, Mayor, I want to thank you for your support and staff, Chris Brown especially and his team for working through this with us.
 As Chris mentioned, we, without a doubt, intend to develop this property. It needs to go in concert with the railroad, in concert with the highway department, and we'd like to run this parallel as opposed to waiting for the 100,000-square-foot development. It's going to happen, but as you know, that takes some time to develop. So thank you for your time, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Bert. Who else? No one else right now. We don't have anyone in here, so I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 so what discussion uh would the council like to have what action would the council like to take i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second yes we have a motion the second to go to the second reason care would you please call the right bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon
 Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Who's there? Scroggins. Yes. In order to amend ordinance number 6393 by removing section 3, which requires development approval and the posting of a bond before the mayor can sign the agreements for the new railroad crossing at Futile Drive and Gregg Avenue. Would we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Third. Second.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. In order to amend Ordinance Number 6393 by removing Section 3, which requires development approval and the posting of a bond before the mayor can sign agreements for the new railroad crossing at Futrell Drive and Great Avenue. Okay. What kind of comments do we have in the council? Okay.
 thank you council now we can move on with these railroad crossings i've got to tell you they're not getting any cheaper so i want to move along with these so that will be a great help to us care would you please call the road bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes scroggins yes thank you council very much all right number 11.
 An ordinance to amend 33.350, Purpose and Establishment, 33.351, Composition, 33.352, Terms of Office, and 33.354, meetings of Article 23, Active Transportation Advisory Committee, to increase the number of residents on the committee. Kip. Whereas the Active Transportation Committee currently has five residents of Fayetteville as voting members appointed by the City Council,
 And whereas the nominating committee recommends that the Fayetteville Code be amended to increase the number of resident positions to seven and designate one such person as a representative for Americans with disabilities. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 33.350, purpose and establishment to change eight voting committee members to ten voting committee members in the introductory language.
 Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-October hereby amend section 33.35 subsection E by repealing it and enacting a new subsection E as follows a member of the active transportation advisory committee may present reports and recommendations to the Transportation Committee as needed
 Section 3 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend section 33.351 composition by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a new section 35 point 33.351 as follows the active transportation committee shall be composed of 10 voting members as shown below and non-voting staff support members as designated by the mayor subsection a one voting member of the committee shall be a member of the City Council designated by the mayor and
 B. One voting member shall be a member of the Planning Commission designated by the Planning Commission. C. One voting member shall be a member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board designated by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. D. Seven voting members shall be residents of the City of Fayetteville and appointed by the City Council, at least one of whom shall represent a bicycle advocacy organization. At least one shall represent Americans with Disabilities. A.
 Section 4, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 33.352, Terms of Office, by repealing it and acting anew as follows. Terms of Office, private citizen members shall serve two-year terms with no limit on the number of terms they may serve.
 Any person who has served two consecutive full terms on any City Commission Board or committee is not eligible for reappointment to the same committee until one term of office has expired unless there is an insufficient number of applicants to fill all vacancies. City Council Planning Commission and Parks and Recreation Advisory representatives may serve as long as they retain membership on their sponsoring body.
 section 5 the city council city of favorable archer here by men section 33.354 meetings by repealing it and acting the new uh one as follows meetings the active transportation advisory board shall meet at least once per quarter to conduct regular business at a time and place that is mutually convenient to the membership including virtual or hybrid formats the active transportation advisory committee may meet more frequently if needed
 Okay, Matt. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I just wanted to add that this did go to the Active Transportation Committee on January 12th with full support, and the Transportation Committee also reviewed this on January 25th with full support for these changes. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the Council?
 Mayor, I just wanted to make a comment. I know that there was discussion that we would appoint someone who had a disability to be the representative for ADA, but I like that we've kind of opened it up a little bit more because there are other individuals who could represent that, such as a therapist or somebody who has a non-physical disability. So I would be in support of the way that we have written it right now. Yeah, we had some discussion on that.
 So, during our conversation of the nominating committee,
 I thought we recommended this with somebody that could represent the Americans with Disabilities Act, but also a sidewalk advocate. And so, I'm surprised that that's not in this change. So, I wondered if there, Matt, if there was discussion about that or if that just got overlooked.
 And so, we felt like everybody on the committee really supports that kind of a, you know, they walk and they use sidewalks. And so, we're looking at that as a way to kind of get that conversation going. And so, I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 that was kind of their viewpoint is to kind of keep it as more of an open position instead of narrowing it down to somebody using a sidewalk. Well, I'm going to chime in here a little bit because we brought that, you know, through our experience with the nominating committee. And I think that if you have interviewed as many people as we have over the years, there are people that are sidewalk advocates. There are people that...
 and use them for recreation as well as ways to get around town. So I don't know if anyone else on the nominating committee feels like I do, but I think that we should have a sidewalk advocate or someone that... It's not someone that just takes a sidewalk. It's someone that takes sidewalks seriously. And I don't know how else to say it. But I think that's a good point.
 Council Member Bunch, do you recall when we discussed if there was anything else? I don't mean to put you on the spot, but at the Chairman of the Nominating Committee, you certainly know what we were faced with. No, I don't think there's anything else. My biggest concern was that we get the ADA person on there. I was not as invested in the sidewalk advocate as you were, Mark. And I know you were very concerned
 very straightforward about that. But I thought the bigger concern was the ADA representation for me. And I like the idea that we've changed, like Holly brought up, we've changed it around enough that it's broadened it a little bit because we do get people sometimes who...
 We may not have an applicant that has a disability. But I also get staff's perspective on the sidewalk advocate because I do think it does, you know, lots of people use sidewalks. And I don't know that, I don't know how else we would phrase it other than what we've called it, which was a person that,
 is primarily using sidewalks and is really attentive to sidewalks. I mean, I think that that's a little bit broader interpretation there. So I don't mean to kick the ball back to you, Mark, but I don't, you know, I think it's okay this way. All right.
 I actually feel like we need to have another position in there because I think that advocating for the sidewalks, because I think that during our discussion, we've got a bicycle advocate put in there. Well, a lot of people are on the committee are using bicycles too, but this person is specifically engaged in advocacy for bicycles.
 I would like to amend it. I would like to amend to add another, not increase the number of positions to more than seven, but just make one of those positions be a sidewalk advocate. Teresa, I just have a follow-up. Teresa, you're saying take out sidewalk advocates
 that you know we're adding the uh let's see let me get back here so we're adding two positions right so you want to only add one position and make somebody else a sidewalk advocate is that oh i'd like to continue to have the two new positions that are added in there but
 But one of them is the ADA person, and the other one was just an open community at large position. So I'd like to take that additional one and designate it as a sidewalk advocate. I would be in support of that. Maybe we should come up with a better name for it. Well, let's think about what is a sidewalk advocate.
 There are people that are sidewalk advocates, like they care about the safety of sidewalks for going to school, for going through neighborhoods where there... It's not trails. It's not bicycles. It's sidewalk safety and the...
 Their focus is on sidewalks because we do have bicycle, we have people that use trails, we have all of that. But how many calls over the years have I received about sidewalks? A lot. A lot. And if these people, if they called me and I said, well, you know, you have a sidewalk advocate here.
 that you could talk to about this to help us understand your concern about the sidewalks. Because it's where they are, it's how safe they are, it's where they're crumbling, it's the infrastructure that's associated with the sidewalk when they're going from one part of town to the other. It's, it is the sidewalk advocate. And I, you know, I think about different neighborhoods where they've called and they have concerns about sidewalks.
 That's what they're calling about is sidewalks. So I do think that there are people that are more interested in sidewalks than just being in general. And that's my point of view after the years I've been on city council. How many people call me about sidewalks? A lot. So that's why initially I thought a sidewalk advocate would be good. This is almost kind of silly, like.
 We're deciding a sidewalk advocate because they seem to care a lot. I mean, this is almost like a self-appointed hall monitor. I think siloing all the positions is an unfortunate move because then you're lumping.
 what could be more restrictive. And then so you have somebody just because they show up at the meeting going, I love sidewalks, that's what we're gonna choose them on instead of credentials. Now, if there was somehow credentialing of people in sidewalks, like if there was some metric
 The bicycling makes sense because you've got somebody that may run events. You've got somebody that may own a bike store. Like that seems a little more objective than somebody that just got giddy during the meeting about sidewalks, but no metrics. And I'll be honest with y'all. I'm a tiny tad lost on this because this went to the nominating committee, right?
 Okay, okay, and it was decided that you were going to add the positions, right? They decided not to do sidewalk advocate because they said everyone cares about the sidewalks. Who? The committee themselves. Oh, I see. I'm with you now. Yeah. Okay.
 They said yes to the ADA person and no to the specific sidewalk person. Some of you all would like to have a sidewalk advocate. I have a question. So the nominating committee picks the community members, right? Okay, so could we add a sidewalk advocate like Teresa asked and then just leave the credentialing up to the nominating committee?
 I mean, that's kind of what we do anyways. Yeah, from the point of view of someone that's been on the nominating committee for 11 years, I think that is valid. Okay. That's how I see it as valid. Because we have over the years, we have had applicants that are more...
 concerned about, like I say, sidewalks, location, sidewalk safety, sidewalks that are not connected. They are sidewalk users, and they have kids that use sidewalks. There's neighborhoods that have sidewalk issues. So I think that when you interview these people, yes. And if someone applied for a sidewalk advocate, well, they obviously have some concerns
 dedication to sidewalks. And it does sound silly, and it sounds like we're siloing people, but we are. Let's just face it. We have trails that are important. We have bicycles that are important. We have sidewalks that are important. That's how I look at it. It's, I think, and it does come from the experience of seeing people that are interviewing for these positions
 Mayor, Councilmember Bunch has her hand raised. Yes. Okay. So the nominating committee, we could probably craft language to add a sidewalk advocate, but we would have to be disregarding the input of the active transportation committee. Is that not what they said? Everyone, you know, so I'm kind of like,
 I don't know that it's our job to, you know, I think we need to engage with the Active Transportation Committee. And if we can't sell them on the sidewalk advocate, then maybe we need to think this through a little more. But my concern was not to get hung up on the sidewalk person, but to get the ADA person on there, which I thought was really an important thing to have.
 So, I'll make another proposal. Right now, we've added two more seats on this committee, from five up to seven. And I think that's a good thing.
 So, what if we just added one more to six, and then we could come back for the ADA person, and we could come back and revisit the sidewalk discussion once we have a better definition? Because otherwise, I don't know why we added another position on here. I don't understand if it wasn't siloed or designated.
 I guess I'm not completely following, but so you want to add fewer positions and then define the sixth one later? Right. We would add one extra position for the ADA instead of two extra positions. And so we could come back potentially and discuss the sidewalk advocate or the potential for that. So you'd add two for the ADA? One for ADA, I'd go for that. And then...
 that's exactly what i'm saying mark yes thank you for clarifying for everybody so the if i i'll do a motion to amend the motion to amend the motion to amend the motion to amend the motion to amend the motion to amend the motion to amend
 I will move to amend the number of members from the number of voting members from the proposed seven to six. A second. Okay, I can do that. But do we still want in that amendment to define someone as ADA? Right.
 Yes, it would remain. It's just changing the number, lowering it from 7 to 6 and leaving the ADA as written. I can endorse that. That's a nice compromise. Okay, okay. So we have a motion and a second to reduce it from 7 to 6. We would leave the ADA in place.
 and then sort of the at-large person would go away. Have I got that right? My only concern is that we're lowering the representation of the group by taking away the other person. No, it's already, we were adding two positions, so we already have the established number. We're not taking anything away.
 we're just not adding another position. You'd just be adding one instead of two, right? Yeah, we're adding one. We're not taking away from the existing number that we already have. Which is how many are already on there now? Five. We're actually eight total. There are five that are...
 Three are from representatives from the Planning Commission, the city council member, and the Parks and Trails Advisory Board. And then you had five. You wanted to add it to seven to add two, but you can't add just six if you want to, which is what I understand the motion to be. And you'd end up with nine total voting members. DAVID BURRAGE- There you go. CHRIS MARTINS- Before we vote on that,
 weight into the deep waters here. I think some of the reason that we're adding people is I hear somewhat on a regular basis that people don't apply to positions because of certain people on the nominating committee, that they feel that they are getting gatekeeped. And I think that part of this is to allow...
 more people on there. So going down to the six instead of the seven, which I know we're going from five, I think that's part of this, is that there are applicants that are definitely qualified that keep getting turned down. So this is something that's been brought up to me quite a bit in the last couple of years.
 I hope that we can do what the active transportation committee asked us. There is a motion in a second, I think on the floor to change subsection D. Instead of saying seven voting members shall be residents of the city and one being a bicycle advocate, one being an ADA advocate.
 to go down to six voting members shall be residents city that's so i think that is the at least the proposed amendment i think it got a second did it did it get a second deandre seconded okay yes the record shows that it was uh the motion was council member turk that made the motion to amend it was council member jones that seconded okay so that is really what's before the council
 unless either the motioner, you know, wants to remove it or else, otherwise we're eventually going to have to have a vote on it. Okay. Or there could be another amendment to the amendment if that's what Council Member Scroggins would like to put on. Well, if we don't do the amendment, we would be what the nominating, I mean, the after transportation committee is asking for.
 Go ahead, Kara. You were gonna say something, Kara? I can't hear on the mic. Oh, I said that if we don't do the amendment, it's what the active transportation committee asks. So that's what I want. That's right. That would be what the active transportation committee is recommending. Okay, so let me get this right here. So the active transportation asked for two people and one of those be ADA, correct?
 And one other position that was just a citizen at large instead of a specifically sidewalk advocate. Oh, I see. Okay. They didn't give the designation of sidewalk advocate. I see. Okay, so we are now going to vote on whether we reduce it down to six. Well, let's do that first. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Bunch.
 no Turk yes Hertzberg no Harvey no Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins no amendment fails now we're back to the original right that's correct
 So we're on the second reading. Let's see, where are we? Well, I have a pretty good idea. We've just done the first reading. We haven't gone on the second or third, I don't think. I don't think I've taken. Have I taken public comment on this? It's been so long ago. You have only been talking about the amendments so far. Oh, well, there we are. So what other discussions would the council like to have? Would you like for me to take some public comment? Well, all righty then. Let's do that.
 Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five minute duration. Stay on topic, whatever that might be. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. No rude behavior.
 Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are participating by in that's in the chamber in person after that. So let's go to Zoom Susan. Who do we have? Nobody. Nobody. Well let's come back to the council now. And we are, this is an ordinance. We're on the first reading.
 So what discussion would you like to have or action items would you like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 In Ordinance to Amend Section 33.350, Purpose and Establishment, Section 33.351, Composition, Section 33.352, Terms of Office, and Section 33.354, Meetings of Article 23, Active Transportation Advisory Committee, to increase the number of residents on the Committee.
 We suspend the rolls and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 And the ordinance demands Section 33.350, Purpose and Establishment, Section 33.351, Composition, Section 33.352, Terms of Office, and Section 33.354, Meetings of Article 23, Active Transportation Advisory Committee, to increase the number of residents on the committee. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council?
 just you know it was it used to be called the sidewalk committee and so does the committee may make recommendations this is what the website says for yearly trail and sidewalk and paving overlay construction programs so everyone is a sidewalk advocate just want to make it clear any other final comments before we vote okay seeing none Kara would you please call the row bunch
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Moving right along. Number 12. An ordinance to approve
 revised ward boundaries to equalize ward populations after the 2020 federal census and to amend 32.03 of the federal code kit.
 Whereas if a federal consensus reveals that ward populations have become unbalanced, with substantially more residents in some wards than other wards, cities are constitutionally required to redraw ward boundaries to achieve fairly equal population in all wards.
 And whereas the 2020 federal census revealed substantial population differences among our wards, with Ward 1 and 4 having significantly larger populations than Ward 2 and Ward 3. And whereas GIS has proposed new ward boundaries that maintain the core of existing wards, substantially equalize each ward's population,
 and takes into account both the historic, more rapid population growth of Ward 1 and Ward 4 and their currently existing residential building permits so all wards will maintain substantially equal populations longer during this decade. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves the attached map
 as the new ward boundary map for Fayetteville, which establishes substantially equal populations for each ward, and amends Section 32.03 wards of the Fayetteville Code by referring to this ordinance and by adopting the new ward boundary map attached as Exhibit A to replace all previous ward boundary maps.
 The original attachment or exhibit in the agenda package said proposed map because obviously it was proposed by GIS and myself and staff as a possible ward boundary map, a new one, and has been presented and seems like it's been had at least some acceptance, although not formally yet.
 So I asked Greg to prepare an exhibit that would be proper to actually publish in our code. And I sent that out to you today. And basically it is the same map, except instead of saying proposed, it says redistricted ward boundaries. And then there was one other minor change last year, the city council annexed.
 a small amount of land immediately south of the Commerce Park on Black Oak Road. And so I had Greg go ahead and put that into the map since, in fact, that is part of Fayetteville and probably should be included in the map. And so I would ask initially for the city council to move to replace the current –
 proposed map that was sent out with the agenda to the new map that we just sent to you, which is basically almost the same except it's got a different title as it no longer says proposed. So I would ask that would be the first thing that you all would do before you enter into other considerations.
 So the amendment would be to do away with the title proposed. To replace the old exhibit A with this exhibit A. Okay. So moved. Second. Thank you. Any discussion? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Mayor, we also thought that the city council had all heard the presentation Greg had made. So instead of going through that all again, he, I think, is online and is willing to answer any questions that they might have. Okay. Well, the maps have been sent out to you all today. I haven't heard anything much from anybody on it.
 So what... Greg could pull up that map for the public to be able to see it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that would be a good idea. There you go. There we go. So, and Greg is here to answer any questions. So what questions do we have for Kit or Greg?
 I just want to make a note because I know at the election time, Ward 3, the one I represent, had significantly more voters than the other wards. So I think some people are going to be surprised when they find out Ward 3 actually got larger. The reason for that has been explained before, that it's based on population, not voting.
 voting. So Ward 3 did not grow like some of the other wards. And so it's going to take on more area. And I just wanted people to know that that's why it's actually growing, even though previously it had the most voters by a significant margin. Yes, that's certainly the census is based on actual persons rather than voters. And that's why there might be different voting counts amongst the wards.
 Public comment? Well, I was just, is there anything else from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one, turn it to Mike. You have a five-minute duration. Please stay on topic. Don't engage anyone in the public or a council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are here in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Okay.
 Nobody mayor. Alrighty then. I don't believe we have anybody beating the door down here either. So I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes and Norris approved revised ward boundaries to equalize ward populations after the 2020 federal census and to amend section 3203 of the Fayetteville City Code well we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final read care would you please color up bench
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. An ordinance to approve revised ward boundaries to equalize ward populations after the 2020 federal census and to amend section 3203 of the Fayetteville code. Any final comments from the council? Yes. I do lament the loss of those.
 ward one voters because they've been very very awesome and uh supporters and so we're sad about that but we you know i appreciate the work that kit and um team have done to to get it all balanced out so i'm sad to see them go but we're gotta we're growing and transforming here so um you know we're we're changing with the times thanks for your work yep yeah i too want to thank kit greg susan all y'all's work on this
 putting it all together well done okay uh care which police colorado bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes scroggins yes okay number 13.
 An ordinance to amend 118.01 applicability of the federal city code and 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code to extend the short-term rental startup period from nine months to 12 months and to declare an emergency kit. Whereas on November 16, 2021, the city council passed ordinance 6508 extending the short-term rental startup period from six months to nine months.
 to allow operators to obtain the necessary insurance and ownership deck documentation and address life safety issues that were identified during required inspections. And whereas operators are experiencing delays in hiring contractors to fix the life safety issues, and should be given additional time to apply for and receive their short-term rental licenses. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are triggered by amends of Section E4 of Section 118.01 applicability of the Fayetteville City Code by changing the 9-month start-up period to 12-month start-up period as shown in Exhibit A attached to this ordinance.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby amend subsection A7 of section 163.18 short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code by changing the nine-month start-up period to a 12-month start-up period as shown in Exhibit B attached to this ordinance.
 Section 3 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because short-term rental operators should be given additional time to comply with the City's life safety standards and insurance requirements for short-term rentals which are necessary for public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Okay. Sarah, I believe you have this one. Sarah, you're muted. I'm the first in line to vote, so I've just been kind of leaving it all and then I turned it off there for a moment. Yes, I am bringing this forward because I've had several calls from people who actually thought they were moving along in the right direction and then they found out they needed some sort of,
 maybe a sizable repair that they're not sure they're going to be done by the 21st. And, you know, they're kind of concerned about it because they've gone along and done everything else and they've gotten their inspection and they're going to have to get another inspection and now they'll have to go back to the, you know, to get a conditional use permit. It's additional time, additional expense to them.
 And they're trying to do the right thing. And I think it's also taken us quite a while to get people, to make people aware that we have this ordinance now. And I'm sure there are some people out there that no matter what we do, they're still not going to be aware of it. But I do think we should give people just a little bit longer. And one thing that I was concerned with is I found, you know, I...
 I know this has been through the hands of several people at the city, and we've lost people to different, you know, they've moved on to different jobs and stuff. And so it's kind of, it's like we're just trying to get our wheels under us to get moving in the right direction, I think. And I feel like getting people a little bit more time is right. And also to give them the possibility right now, it just ends at a certain time. If you are in the working on getting your permit, you know,
 and you're going through and getting repairs made, and you get up to the deadline, and you find out you need something more expensive, and you don't make that deadline, it's just over with. And I think it's better to let a little bit, one of the other things with this policy was to give people an additional amount of time after the deadline if they have their application in. Okay. What questions does the council have for Sarah on this?
 Anybody? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute duration broken. Stay on topic. Don't engage anyone from the public or a council member. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the chamber after that. Who would like to address this on Zoom? Susan.
 Nobody, Mayor. Okay, nobody in here. So I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you like to take? I have a question before we go on. Jonathan, how many permits have been issued so far? There have been 204 short-term rental permits issued so far. Okay. Okay.
 Thanks councilmember Bunch for your work on this with that I move to spin rules and go to second reading second Motion and second to go to the second read care of would you please call? bench Yes, Turk Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes Kenyon, yes Scroggins, yes
 in order to amend section 118.01 applicability of the Fayetteville City Code and section 163.18 short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code to extend the short-term rental startup period from nine months to 12 months and to declare an emergency. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Banks? Yes.
 Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. In order to amend section 118.01, applicability of the Fayetteville City Code, and section 163.18, short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code, to extend the short-term rental startup period from nine months to 12 months and to declare an emergency.
 Okay, what final comments to this council have okay? I don't have any either care. Would you please call the roll bench? Yes, turf. Yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones. Yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes, and we need a separate vote for the emergency clause mail. Sorry. I
 We need a motion and a second. Yes. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second for the emergency clause. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Susan, what announcements do you have? I'd like to plug the public meetings again that we're having with respect to the planning for the expansion of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center. First meeting is tomorrow and there are subsequent meetings next week, but I invite you to the website and the homepage where you can read in the newsflashes about the times and the locations. And then also this Saturday will be our first two different locations.
 public engagement for the 10 year parks master plan with a subsequent meeting in early March. Again, those details are on the homepage. Thank you. Mayor, before we close, I think we were going to discuss a tour. Oh, yeah, that's right. Thank you. It's been a long meeting, but it was on my list. Well, Teresa, when would you like to have that? Well, I was thinking since we've got two weeks,
 sometime maybe not this weekend but maybe the following weekend or the following Friday, maybe the 25th? Yeah, we could, that would work for me. Could we have it later in the day, maybe at like 4 on Friday the 25th? That would work for me. When? Friday at 4 on the 25th. Would that work for staff?
 I'm not certain I'll be available, but we can certainly find someone who is. Okay. If not, I'm pretty flexible later in the afternoon if we need to switch days, just let me know.
 Okay, and I'll confirm at the agenda session on the 22nd as well. Okay, thank you so much. Jonathan, just so you know, if we can't make this date work on the 28th, I would probably need to go early because we have an EAC meeting at 530. Understood. Thank you. Thank you for scheduling, as always. Okay, anything else? Well, thank you all. Good work tonight. We're done.