I'd like to call the city council meeting for February the 18th, 2020, to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, liberty and justice for all. Welcome everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, a resolution to approve a one year contract extension with Insta Forum Technologies Incorporated in the amount not to exceed $528,693.55 for rehabilitation.
 of Sanitary Sewer Mains along Cured and Place Sanitary Sewer Linings. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 20-25 an authorized contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $181,873.84 for the Stone Street Water Line Improvements Project and to approve a project tenancy in the amount of $18,187.38.
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of 0.33 acres from Ted A. Willis and Roberta G. Willis in exchange for the conveyance of 0.72 acres of city-owned land and payment in the amount of $3,150 for the removal and reconstruction of the township water storage tank.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a change order, task order number seven, with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $52,701.89 for reimbursement for stream bank restoration expenses associated with the White River Stream Bank Restoration Project at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Number five.
 A resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a grant of conservation easement to the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust for the preservation of 41 acres of environmentally sensitive land located near the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant. Number six.
 a resolution to authorize a three-year contract for habitat restoration and management with the northwest Arkansas land trust in the total amount of 188 215 dollars for the preservation of the west side prairie
 Near the west side wastewater treatment facility number seven a resolution to approve change order number two the contract with DC sparks construction LLC in the amount of $59,950 for the relocation of sewer main necessary for the construction of the fleet vehicle wash facility and to prove budget adjustment and number eight a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $1,970 representing donations to the parks and recreation facilities
 Department 2019 I'll entertain a motion to accept consent agendas read so so moved Kyle second we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agendas. We care about you. Please call the roll. I
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes Smith yes, yes Marsh yes, Kenyon yes Thank you all an unfinished business number one an ordinance to approve vacation 19 to have 69 47 property located at 411 East Maple Street to vacate a portion of A water and sewer easement. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading Okay, Kyle so moved
 Sonja? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to approve the AAC 19-6947 for property located at 411 East Maple Street to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. Kim, do you have? Garner?
 Good afternoon mayor and councillor. Yes, as you learned two weeks ago This is a typical easement vacation. This blanket easement was granted in 1941 It was largely ignored as far as we could tell We were working with the applicant to see if we could use the West 10 feet jointly with a drive but because of some total reasons that doesn't seem to work and the drive should probably remain on the east side and
 Tim and I have been talking to the applicant and we feel that a good compromise position right now is to accept the seven foot easement that the applicant has agreed to. With the idea that this is a temporary situation, that private sewer line has a number of years left and it really needs to be connected to the street to the front.
 at which time this entire blanket easement can be revisited. So the staff is recommending the seven foot, which I believe Mr. Williams ended out. The only thing I was going to say is that we were informed to do this, and so Blake amended the ordinance, and I left a copy of it to you. The only thing the ordinance changed is from 10 foot to 7 foot, but everything else in the ordinance was the same, but we still need an amendment to adopt the seven feet. Yeah. So, Sonja.
 I move that we amend the ordinance to seven from ten. From what? From ten to seven. I'm sorry. Yeah. From ten to seven. From ten to seven. Ten feet to seven feet. Yeah. Second. Okay. Okay. Let's see. All right. Let's take some public comment on the amendment before we vote. I've been taking, we've been voting before we've taken any public comment. Okay. Well, we can vote if you'd rather vote.
 I had some folks calling about when we do an amendment everybody's already decided what they're going to do on the amendment. But I guess we could vote on the amendment which can give you seven feet and then take public comment on that. I think take public comment. Yeah okay that would be what I would recommend. All right now who would like to address this on the public? Everybody on the amendment from ten feet to seven feet.
 So everybody gets one turn to the microphone, and unless by a vote of the city council they give you more time or if they have questions for you, keep your comments addressed to me. And your name and address stay on the topic, which is the amendment going from 10 feet to 7 feet. And please give us your name and address, and please don't have any outbursts tonight. I had a few of those over the last few weeks, so I would –
 Everybody stay calm be courteous. So who would like to address this on this? Okay. I said all that Sam bringing this back to the council Any discussion on the amendment from the council? All right, we have a motion in the second care. Would you please call the roll? Scroggins yes, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Yes, Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes Okay
 Now we have the amended one. Let's take some public comment of the amended ordinance. Does anyone have any public comment on that? Okay, I'll bring that back to the council. We're on the second reading. Sloan. At this point, is staff and, I guess, the applicant okay with the seven feet? Yes. Yes. Sorry. Okay. So it seems pretty easy at this point that everybody's okay. Okay.
 we don't think there's any long-term consequences we think it's a reasonable compromise we normally want 10 feet but there's a lot of extenuating circumstances here yeah thank you i think some of the issues that i had with it on the side where we're asking him for 10 on the other side it was like some folks had quite a bit less than 10 feet so i think he was the representative property owner was trying to make the point of fairness here so anyway that's what we came up with
 uh sarah i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading sir sorry i just had a quick question uh and it really doesn't involve the seven or the ten feet but
 Since this sewer line goes by next to all these properties that are tied to it, are the neighbors aware that, because I know when we came in the last time we were talking about at some point this is going to need to be tied on and it was going to involve all the neighbors along this one section.
 Have you included, not that it has anything to do with the seven feet, but at some point in time all the neighbors are going to have to tie onto the sewer in a different way, right? Eventually that's the best solution, yes. But right now this property plus the houses to the west take their sewer access from the private sewer line and we're trying to protect utilities' ability to get in there if they
 I understand that, but I was just wondering if, you know, at some point in time, all the neighbors are going to need to be on board with tying on to the sewer in the front. Yes, and Tim may want to address that. It's going to happen, and, you know, since it didn't show up on the title search, I was kind of concerned about that. Thank you, Mayor. One thing that I did say I would do is check the gravity, the fall of the houses, and they do, they will be able to hook on by gravity, which will substantially reduce the cost. And, yeah.
 Basically, I think what will happen is when this sewer line begins to show problems, that's when the neighbors will be involved on what their next step is.
 And eventually we would probably vacate this entire block and of course every neighbor would be notified when that happens because They would all be adjoining this Easement yes Okay, thank you. Well with that in mind. I guess we need a second on this motion I'll be sure I'll be the seconder then I'm moving to the third Okay, Teresa
 thank you i just had a couple of questions so um tim could you let us know approximately how much it would cost to tie into the sewer line once once this eventuality happens oh i'd say approximately about 2500 probably per household okay and i'm just wondering if
 They should be alerted to all of what's going on here so that they're they have the heads up They're kind of aware that we've had this discussion and that we are kind of making a change here I want to make sure that we're not setting any kind of precedent For long for the future with this seven foot access rather than ten feet. We can certainly do that We did that in a similar situation over on locusts So we will send letters to the homes to let them know
 of the future potential issues with the private sewer line. Thank you, that would be helpful. Okay, can you please call the roll on moving to the third and final reading? Mr. Crockin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to approve the AC 19-69 47 for property located at 411 East Maple Street to vacate a portion of a water and sewer He's many final comments from the council. Okay care which please call Scroggins yes punch. Yes, Turk. Yes Smith. Yes Gutierrez. Yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon Yes, okay under new business number one in order to approve the annexation petition of the federal housing policy
 partners and annexed 30.04 acres of land located at 1210 North 54th Street.
 I believe you wanted to put the first two together. Yeah, if that's Acceptable, I think those are fairly inextricably linked So I think it might save us some time to have one conversation and I know we'll have to take separate votes on Before we read this we need to correct the amount of acreage There was a mistake somewhere along the line when I gave out some of this But I didn't get it all out to everybody This is the corrected version
 With the changes in the acreage that are highlighted, there's basically a change only in the acreage. I see. And there was just somehow a mistake that was made that used slightly greater... So, kid, do we need a motion to change the acreage? Yes, to amend to what was handed out... 34.85? That's right. Okay. Well, we need...
 Motion to change the acreage from 30.04 to 34.85. Sarah? I will make a motion to make that change. Second. Second. All right. Any discussion on that? Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 We haven't read the first one yet. Well, okay read that one then we'll do the second one together Okay, I'm actually gonna read the title because the title was changed too In order to approve the annexation petition of the Fayetteville housing partners and annexed 34.85 acres of land located at 1210 North 54th Street and
 Whereas Fable Housing Partners has properly secured the Washington County judge's authorization to annex their 34.85 acres on the north side of Weddington Drive located at 1210 North 54th Street. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby approves the annexation petition of the fable housing partners and confirms the annexation to the city of fable arkansas of about 34.85 acres as described in exhibit b and the map shown on exhibit a both attached to the planning department's agenda memo section two that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby zones the newly annexed property r.a residential agricultural
 Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Architecht hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to recognize this annexation
 Section 4 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Archer hereby assigns this 34.85 acres to Ward 4 of the city of Fayetteville now Do I need to read the second one kid and you read that one? Or we just you know, I think we can kind of consider both of these at the same time But I would not like to read them together. I would like to go ahead and act on this one Okay, we have to act on the annexation before we can act on the rezoning obviously the project can be described and discussed and
 That is the reason for both the annexation and the rezoning. Okay, good. I just had a request, I was just checking. All right, Gardner, do you have this? Yes, sir. The 34 acre annexation request is located northeast of 54th and Weddington, and it's in this configuration. The rezoning request, which is a subsequent item, is for this area.
 The two together are intended to be considered together because they relate to each other. A little broader perspective, the proposed annexation, and this shows the annexation in relationship to the existing city limits and the associated zoning property to the south. The proposed annexation and zoning are shown in the split screen.
 The cobblestone farm, the existing farm is located on the RA area. When it is annexed, the default zoning will be RA, so it's not subject to the rezoning request. The proposal is to rezone.
 The residential community, which is in between the working farm and the commercial area out on Weddington, are Riu, and that's 21 acres, and it's 2.3 acres of community services on the southeast corner. The adopted plans, 2040 plans, shows this as a residential neighborhood area.
 The staff report analyzes the 2040 goals and the annexation guiding policies. This is the future land use plan and as you can see it's shown all as yellow, which is residential neighborhood.
 Issues that were addressed in our staff report with regard to the annexation policy is creation of peninsular or undesirable islands, environmentally sensitive areas, development pressure and urban density.
 and city services and I'll go a little bit towards the city services that are available uh the planning Commission specifically asked us to do a test run with the recent infield scoring Matrix and you can see the overall city yellow is where infield scoring towards the highest
 And this does not score the highest, but it does have significant positive scores. It is close, it met the parks proximity, trail proximity, water proximity sewer and fire response time proximity. So with that, and I purposely did an abbreviated presentation because I understand the applicant is going to tell you about the project in more detail.
 But with that Planning Commission staff recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions you may have. Kyle, do you want to add anything to that? I know you sponsored this. Yeah, I would. And I will leave it to the applicants to sell their project. I think they do a good job of that. But just to quickly outline some of the unique expectations on this.
 They are on a time crunch for funding that kind of bucks the process on our normal timeline. So I walked this on the night that the Planning Commission reviewed it.
 it and they are going to ask for three readings tonight and a vote and we understand that that may color your final vote but without that they can't make their application deadline to the Arkansas Development Finance Authority and they released rules. They've been working on this project for a while but the reason it's kind of compressed here is because those rules weren't released.
 for their application until right before Thanksgiving. And then they run into the Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's holidays. And in that time, they also had to go through a de-annexation process from the county. So for us to go through,
 Our usual process would put them in a bind of having to wait until next year to apply for funding, and they're in kind of a sweet spot. There hasn't been a Northwest Arkansas project approved in a number of years. The rules changed this year to be a little more favorable, but new members will be appointed next year, and the rules may change again. So trying to help them out with at least the opportunity for an up-or-down vote tonight, and we'll let the chips fall where they may.
 Okay, does the applicant want to speak to the council? My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall-Estill and I represent the applicants who I'm going to introduce here shortly. Thank you, council and mayor, for allowing me to speak to you tonight. It's always a pleasure. First of all, Mr. Smith, thank you for bringing up the need for the expedited three readings.
 We're gonna do a short presentation and our presenter is going to give you a little bit more detail on why it's come to this and through really no fault at all of the applicants. And actually I think things are still being changed by the authority.
 as of January 3rd. So they've been working very hard and very diligently for over a year on this project. And so that's sort of a little bit of a background.
 I also want to let you know that after the Planning Commission approved this unanimously, I made some phone calls and talked to some council members that particular night because I wanted them to know that Mr. Smith had agreed to walk it on the next day and I didn't want people to be caught off guard.
 And in a conversation with one of those, one of you council members, it was recommended to me that since we were asking for this, this, you know, doing three readings in one night, it would be nice if the public got additional notice.
 and it was suggested to me that I contact the news media, which I did immediately, and I'm sure you all saw a really great article in the paper on Sunday on the front page of the Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette. I spelled polls. And it also, I think it appeared that
 yesterday evening on KNWA. So my point is is that we heeded the suggestion. I'm going to introduce some people and they're not all, only one guy's gonna do a presentation and he's pretty quick and but I'm going to introduce our team in case in the course of questions you'll know you know what disciplines are represented so you'll know who to ask. Lee Epstein.
 Lee is one of the directors of the New Heights Church. And as you probably know if you read the article or seen anything, the church has donated the land.
 I'm not sure if they exactly donated it or if it's a lease, but it's more or less a donation. So they're very involved. We also have Corey Amos, and he is a land planner from Anthology Real Estate. We have Sean Swartzman. He's the director of Potter House. Yes.
 Jim Petty. Jim Petty is kind of the glue of all of these disciplines. And Jim is right there. He is with Strategic Realty. He will be the developer on this project. And he has a good bit of experience, 20 plus projects that he has done with this type of financing for attainable housing.
 We also have Jeff Webster, President and CEO, and if he would come up, he's the guy that's going to do this little presentation. And I would like to have a little bit of time reserved for some wrap-up comments. Thank you.
 Okay, mr. Mayor and council members. Thank you for allowing us a opportunity to talk this evening and A bit of introduction. My name is Jeff Webster. I'm the president CEO of Endeavor Foundation real quickly who is Endeavor? We are a health conversion foundation founded when Bentonville and Springdale hospitals were sold about 20 years ago Since that time we put about a hundred million dollars into Northwest Arkansas helping out a lot of different social issues be
 be it helping build Children's Hospital, helping with Seven Hills, a lot of different things that we've done investing in pre-K programs here within Fayetteville, etc. So that's kind of who we are. If you summarize it, yes, we make grants, but we really identify what are the big social issues within Northwest Arkansas, connect the right people together, and really help drive systemic change. That's what we describe what we do.
 So, as a bit of really an executive summary here, as Robert said, the request is for expedited consideration tonight. As he also pointed out, we've been working on this project for about a year. Multiple people involved. We'll take you through who all has been involved.
 And really what has driven things to this point, if you will, ADFA, Arkansas Development Finance Authority, they give these guidelines, and the guidelines really drive is the project viable or not, but then also the guidelines drive the design. The design then drives zoning and annexation and all these things. We didn't really get that final guidelines until January 3rd, and even things have moved a little bit even here within February. So it's really...
 done a lot of homework. I think you'll see that as we go through this, but that's really what's driven the request for tonight. So that's kind of point one. I really think this call answers the call to action. I'll touch on this quickly. No doubt you all have seen the Walton Family Housing report that has come out and the call to action there as far as the need for affordable housing. And we also think it hits on a lot of the goals, especially looking up here as in terms of goal number six on the 2030, 2040 plan of creating affordable housing.
 And it's also consistent with other goals that Fayetteville has when you talk about preserving heritage farmland. So it's an interesting combination and we think it's really an example of the community coming together, both public and private sectors.
 So I'll run through this real quick. As far as context, I mentioned this already, but the Walton Family Housing study that came out, really we're on the verge of a crisis as far as the need for attainable housing. So when we talk about attainable housing, there's a need for public housing and public housing.
 housing authority projects, this is a little different. And what you really see, and if you read the Arkansas press, et cetera, yes, you'll see if you, if you can afford a thousand or $1,500 a month for rent, there's a lot of things getting built, a lot of things, um, north south and everywhere else. The reality is there's a lot of people that can't afford that type of rent. And that's really what this call to action is from that Walton family study.
 If you look at this specifically, there's about 150,000 people within northwest Arkansas that sit in this band that have a struggle with being able to afford housing. So that's really where, for us as Endeavor, our target population that we're trying to do a lot of different things around. If you look at that green area a little more in depth, and you can look at this a lot of different ways, but we're talking people that make between $20,000 and $50,000 as far as
 Household income and you likely also know that within the greater metropolitan area of Northwest Arkansas, the median income is $52,000. So if you look at that and what does that translate into? It's really something in a 300 to maybe $700 rent is what people can really afford.
 And then the other thing that really starts to happen is when you talk about, well, who are we talking about in terms of people in this arena? And think about this. It's 150,000 people where 67% of the jobs are $50,000 or less.
 So it might be someone that works at Walmart, might be someone that works at Car Mart. It might be a firefighter that's going to help put your fire out if you have an issue at your house. We're talking about police officers. We're talking about teachers aides, receptionists, a lot of different people. Sorry on that.
 that need this type of help. So you can ask, well how do we know this so well? Well about three years ago, Endeavor launched an organization called HARC and the community asked us to put HARC in place to really help people get connected to various resources.
 So we launched that organization. It's technology and boots on the ground, if you will, helping people get connected. So we have data on what the community is telling us. And if you look at this far and away, the number one thing that they need help with is help paying for housing. Why do they need help paying for housing? Because housing is expensive.
 So, another thing that we did is we put together a community benevolence fund between Walton Family Foundation and Endeavor. We each put a quarter million dollars into this fund to help people that are struggling along a lot of different needs and to help them with first and last month rent. So the issue, you can sit there and go, okay, well we can help them with first and last month rent, but if there's not affordable housing, you really haven't helped them in a complete way. So that's really what we've seen as far as what the need is, a bit of who the people are, etc.
 If you then turn to really who the community partners in this are, we really look at this as we're not just building housing, but we're building a community. So it's a little different in terms of who all comes forward on this. So yes, New Heights donating the land.
 Robert mentioned strategic reality. So 20 plus years of experience in doing these types of projects, that's super important in terms of having credibility with ADPA in terms of getting the funding. Potter's House, you all know them. They're community builders. How do you work across different socioeconomic lines and bring people together? So we look at this as the goal here is to build community across different lines.
 Hark, I've talked about this, we're really connection makers within the community. I talked about the benevolence fund. Joshua Center has said, hey, anybody that needs counseling that we can help along those lines, we're willing to step forward and do that either free or discounted services. Cobblestones Farms, certainly they're an integral part of this as another partner, even with ideas around how do we talk about nutrition with people that are leaving in the community.
 Anthology Real Estate has done work, and you'll see the drawings that we have here as far as initial design. They've done that from a pro bono standpoint. Even 99 Berlin, so you may know who they are within Fayetteville, but when you build a facility like this, you have to make sure that it's ADA, American Disabilities Act compatible. That organization helps find housing for people. So all of a sudden, gee, this is another great mashup in terms of putting the two groups together.
 Other things that we have in the works, major food producer, kind of by way of background for me, I used to work for John Tyson, Greg Lee, you guys probably know those folks. So strong connections with Tyson. I was a president at Simmons Foods as well. So I've been talking to these guys and they're like, well, we're food companies, how do we play in this? So we're trying to figure out different ways where they can be players in this. We've also talked to the major utility companies. They've got five different ideas on how we could do some creative.
 utilities and or internet connections coming into this is in terms of helping the community potter's house on this looking at a sorting and distribution center there uh... in the front of the property potential jobs coming from that and we as endeavor also looking at uh... we do pre-k within uh... fayetteville and are there ways for us to do a center there
 And then lastly, we've talked with Ozark Transit in terms of could they extend things out. We need to get more kind of meat on the bones on this to push these further. But what you see happening is you create excitement and people want to be part of this. All of a sudden different people in the community are stepping up saying how can we be part of doing something exciting. So the project specifics, you've seen this in different ways it's been distributed to you but about 90 units.
 We'll also have 10 fair market rental rate units sprinkled through here. So they're going to look identical, but this is part of building community. We have people that say, well, I want to live there regardless of kind of where my income is. So that's all part of, again, think Potter's House and their strength on bringing people together. They're duplexes and triplexes, single story. The rental rates will be between $400 and $700.
 And keep in mind, those rates are locked for 35 years. This is not for four years and all of a sudden they skyrocket or something like that. The sizes are between one and four bedroom and then the income range. So there's requirements from AFA, but the income range really is set between twenty nine, sixty eight thousand. It depends on household size, et cetera. And importantly, it's not student housing. I know there's been challenges on this.
 So another key piece and then other things wrapped around this in terms of green space community gardens preserving the farm as we talked about also and
 Another piece here is just how we've proposed the zoning. So great feedback from the Planning Commission as far as giving us guidelines on how we think about this. So you can probably see the picture in a nutshell. So it's not just one type of zoning across the whole thing, but thinking about doing it in different ways so that different things are preserved and so that the city has, you might say, control over the RA piece of the zoning to the north.
 If you look at a picture of what might this look like, so it's not classic where there's the street will be behind the houses so that people can come together in terms of community. So you get more of a picture on the right of what we're talking about as far as that type of duplex versus what you might see on the left hand side.
 So, summary, I'll wrap this up real quickly. I mean, we feel like this is a great win. Again, looking at your goal up here as far as creating attainable housing, so a win for the city. Certainly, there's tax revenue impact fees. That's a plus back to the city. And you can control, really, if you will, that annex farmland that's on the north side of things.
 And certainly a win for the community. I mean, the community is really who's stepping forward here. You really shouldn't see it as Endeavor. I just happen to be the spokesperson. But 90 units, like we said, building relationships. It's really all about building that community.
 support coming on all kinds of different dimensions. I think by the time this thing is built, we're gonna have other partners coming forward on this as well. And really, we see this as the beginning, not the end. So how can we model, as Endeavor, we ask ourselves, how can we model how this can be done by the community so that more of these will follow?
 So that's my fast run through. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council to the staff or the applicant or Kyle or anything? Mayor. Oh, there's more. I'd ask for just a few wrap-up comments. Should I do those now or should I do it afterwards? I can do whatever you want. Well, why don't you wrap it up, Rob? And like I said, these guys will be ready to answer questions as well.
 Okay, so reasons to annex. There is no doubt that the city can provide all of the services that are needed. Part of the property is in potentially environmentally sensitive areas, such as the enduring green network and potential wetlands that the city can better protect. The annex property would receive the same services, trash, police, fire, sewer, water, recycling, yard waste pickup, zoning protection, as city property that is nearby.
 Fire and police protection currently being provided there because part of it, as you know, is in the city limits. But as far as fire, Fayetteville is the first responder to the areas that are to be annexed. So it's already that's already being provided. Currently, the property has access to city water and sewer. Therefore, city engineers do not anticipate a need to upgrade utilities to accommodate the annexation.
 The City's Planning Department does not believe that the increased traffic from the annex site will pose a traffic danger. And further, we believe that a majority of the traffic in the morning is going to be going south to Farmington. The property is to be annexed, is to be included within the City's future land use plan.
 And as far as myself and our team, we have not heard from neighbors. We've heard from neighbors, but we have not heard neighbors saying they don't want it. In regard to the rezoning, the requested zoning districts will create a walkable, mixed-density community adjacent to services needed.
 This part of Weddington will continue to develop as Fayetteville grows and its services are thereby needed by these residential neighborhoods. So this zoning request will complement future development needs. The rezoning is in agreement with the future land use map, as I said a minute ago, and it's consistent with the goals of the city plan 2040, the location of the mixed use
 CS zoning will mitigate many of the impacts of greater residential development. The CS zoning will further the City's goals to create compact, complete, and connected neighborhoods through the provision of a range of potential goods and services.
 In regard to the RIU zoning, the diversity that is allowed in this zone as far as housing types is complementary to the City's designation of the residential neighborhood area. Further, RIU zoning will help develop attainable housing more so than a typical single-use zoning.
 The zoning on part of the annex property will dovetail with the City's goals to limit sprawl. And further, along Weddington, this will increase the feasibility of varied forms of transportation, whether it's cars, public transit, or bicycle walking. Also, the City's planning staff does not believe the rezoning will cause traffic danger or congestion. Just some general reasons and I'll truly go sit down.
 Why is this good to not just do the annexation, but also the rezoning? Your tax base grows. The city can guide smart development for preservation of precious farmland. This project screams, we hear you Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas. You've requested attainable housing, and here it is. Approve this, and you're also investing in our present and future workforce.
 You are showing how public-private projects should work. With that, I thank you. Thank you. Now, does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff or Kyle on this? Sloan. I'm definitely okay with this. I do have one question because they mentioned that they're going to cap rent.
 I guess I want to know whose pockets they can go in when, you know, a roof might cost $10,000 to fix now, but in 20 years it might be $20,000, $30,000 to fix. Is this going to be put in an LLC? Is somebody going to be able to pay for that when the rent amounts don't? So I'm sure you all know who should answer that.
 Jim Petty with Strategic Realty and that is a very good question, very technical and I don't want to glaze your eyes over, but I don't want to dodge your question either. The way this program works is with the CAF rents, as Jeff called it, the cost is the same whether it's affordable at that rent or not. And so the way that we keep it attainable is through the use of these federal funds, which are the tax credit sales.
 something cost a million dollars, doesn't matter if you've got rents at 500 or 5,000, it still costs the same to build. We're able to, I'll use the word, I don't like to use this word, but so maybe it'll be easy for you to understand, it, it, the, the costs are bought down or subsidized by the use of these federal funds and that's what helps us. Secondly, to get more specific into maybe what you were concerned with,
 This is heavily regulated. You have to have a proven track record. It will be because of the tax law that it pertains to. It will be in a separate entity, but the investors will have invested
 8 to 10 million dollars of the 12 million dollars. And so it's a very low leverage deal. And so I could go on and on and on and I'm happy to do that, but I want to be respectful of your time and make sure I answered your specific question. So you feel comfortable if cost of maintenance goes up like 5% per year for the next 35 years that the LLC or whatever entity will be?
 Yes. Now, I will make a minor clarification to what Jeff said. The cap is not 700 per year for 35 years. These can go up no more than 2.75%, basically the cost of inflation. And so the other thing that is built in for protection of what you're talking about are replacement reserves and operating deficit reserves and things like that. Okay. Well, I like it.
 So one of the things, you know, this kind of ties in with what Sloan just said and I may have to ask you to get back up again, but so you have a cap on the rent, 2.75 per year, right? And so does that also reflect in the income levels that you're trying to target? You have a similar kind of adjustment for that as well or?
 The, this is a federal program and the income levels, the income limits, if you will, are adjusted annually. We have no control over that. Okay. And also, so to ensure that you are targeting this group of our community that you're trying to target. Okay.
 renting something there there you're their landlord correct that is correct and they don't have you know you hear all these stories in big cities where someone has a rent-controlled apartment for five hundred dollars a month or something and then they sublet it for two thousand as time goes by you're going to protect you know that you're always hitting that target
 That is correct. That is not even allowed. That is not even a remote possibility legally. Now if somebody does it and we don't know about it, then we find out about it, but we're in contact with our residents. They have a lease and subletting is absolutely prohibited.
 As like 25, 30 years from now though, you have measures in place to ensure this doesn't happen other than just saying not to sublet in the lease? That is correct. We are heavily regulated but we're also audited. The state of Arkansas has a compliance staff that comes out.
 and they regularly monitor for making sure we're charging the rents, no hire. We're leasing to people that are making within that income band and so forth. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. That's all. Okay. Teresa.
 Mr. Petty, you might want to stay up there just a little bit longer. So I wanted to find out who the owner of the structures are going to be, the houses. Is that a conglomerate of developers or?
 Okay, it is our company, Strategic Realty. It's me and the gentleman right there that likes to stay out of the camera a lot as well. We our company is Strategic Realty. It will be a separate single-purpose, single-asset entity that's a limited partnership and the investors, the ultimate user of this, again I'm getting technical here, but the tax credit which is the form of subsidy.
 is a syndicate, mostly their banks and life insurance companies and other corporations that are able to utilize these tax credits. They have a lot of money invested, and they have a full staff that also monitors us as well. So...
 i don't know if that answered your question or not but it did sort of um that tax credit um you know we understand that your time is really compressed i i think this is a great um idea a great project very supportive of what i've seen so far but what happens if you're unsuccessful in getting the tax credit does the whole deal fall apart and make it not financially doable
 Without the tax credits, it does, I mean, that's what you're subsidizing the cost with is those tax credits. I will tell you that we don't give up easy. We're very persistent, and we've had, I think, our record is,
 which we only once have we tried to do this three times in another part of the state it took us three times but we eventually got it funded and approved and these rules that Jeff was talking about they they change every year every two years periodically and and and and the state you know through their evaluation they determine where the priorities are and and right now
 you know, there's priorities based on the need up here, and that doesn't mean all of the funds are going to come here, but they are, there's a big priority right now in northwest Arkansas. And so we're confident, but we're not, you know, we're not going to say right now we've got it in the bag, but we won't give up.
 until we're successful or we have to say sorry. So if it doesn't work this year, you'll try again next year and continue to pursue this? We will, yes. So one last question. If you're successful, when you're successful with the tax credit, is that credit tied to the program?
 particular investors to the particular company or is it really just to that location? It is specific to that location. If, for example, something happened and the New Heights Church decided they needed to use that land after we had received funding or after we had not received funding and we moved two tracks down, say.
 We would put in the application with that location. We might, if it's not in the city and it's not zoned, we might have to come back and do this exercise again. But yes, those funds are specific to the project. They're not specific to the investor. They're specific to the project and to us specifically.
 in that location. And it's in there to prohibit people from doing the old switcheroo, you know, and we thought it was going to be this, but really it's over here. There are safeguards in place. And this program has been around for, I think we celebrated the 30th birthday here not long ago, and it's hugely bipartisan. There's not...
 There's not a lot of things that happen through the years that our government does really well. This is something that I feel they have done really well. It's been hugely successful bipartisan support and the industry continues to succeed because of that. Thank you so much. Okay, any other questions? All right, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn at the mic you have a five minute duration unless by a vote of the city council they give you more time to determine how much time it is or they have questions for you please keep your comments to me stay on the topic this is the annexation of 34.85 acres everybody be courteous to one another please no outbursts and would you if you would give us your name and address
 good evening my name is Angela Belford well my address is 47 34 Mays Drive I come to you as the Fayetteville Housing Authority executive director starting to lose her voice
 I come to this podium almost every single time that there's a conversation about housing and I say we need some more and I say don't forget right there you guys don't look at the city plan, but we do and This is a fantastic project for someone bringing housing If you know me very well You know that I'm not a big fan of LIHTC and I do appreciate Jim taking some time today to try and change my mind
 And at some point we may look at that strategy, but at this point this is a project that has been put together with the things we love to see. Collaboration. You saw the list of partners.
 And just because you have a giant list of partners doesn't actually mean anything, but what's the value of those partners that they have? And so I want to talk a little bit about the relationship we've had with those partners over the last few years. I've talked also at this microphone about homelessness and all of the work that we've done, and one of the backbone ways that we've been able to do the work that we've done with homelessness is because of the work that they do at HARC.
 They not only funded the strategic planning process that we've been a part of for the last three years, they've also provided the software that we need to maintain our by name list. They've been very responsive by working with the Walton Family Foundation to put together the Catalyst Fund. He didn't talk about the Housing Success Fund that they've put together, but you guys approved.
 proposal a few weeks ago for the city of Fayetteville to become a partner in that housing success fund. What Endeavor Foundation and the Harcourt Center for Collaborative Care does very well is they listen. They take the data that our community gives them and they listen and they respond.
 And so I could not be more delighted for them to be a part of this project. Next I want to talk to you about Potter's House. My favorite quote from Potter's House executive director, Sean Swartzman, one time he said to me, Angela, this person, and he was talking about somebody that had been a Potter's House, had been served by Potter's House, this person's grandchild will never know poverty.
 And as someone that watches my grandchild now grow up and will never know poverty because we have broken that cycle, to have an organization that is part of this that doesn't think in five-year plans, that doesn't think in ten-year plans, but really takes a generational approach. They literally have programs that help multi-generational mentoring.
 And they've been a part of our community for many, many years and do excellent work. And if you haven't heard of their work, it's because they don't go around like me, putting it in the newspaper all the time. But they do, in fact, do fantastic work.
 I could talk about New Heights Church and the fact that they had this land donated to them a number of years ago, and they started with Cobblestone Farm because they said, we don't want a church building that is vacant and a big parking lot that's vacant six days of the week.
 We want to use this property for more. And so in addition to housing, which you know I love, and having a giant list of partners, these are collaborative folks. I'm just now getting to know Jim Petty and have had the opportunity to meet with a number of different people over the last few months as we look at developing. And everyone says, you got to meet Jim Petty.
 you gotta meet jim petty you gotta meet jim petty uh we figured out today that john latour had even three years ago said you gotta meet jim petty he just couldn't remember jim's name uh don't hold that against jim that john latour is also a fan anyway so this is a group that is putting it together and we are delighted
 to support this project in any way possible and hope that you will even though it is an accelerated time frame You guys know how funding cycles go, you know how grant cycles go and if this is their time frame Then I appreciate your willingness to help them. Thanks so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello Amber Bruce, I live at Molly Court in Ward 4 and
 and I am here, I'm a social worker working in the homelessness sector. I actually found about this project in the newspaper and my heart leapt with joy when I read the words 90 units of affordable housing.
 I spend the majority of my day looking for affordable housing for folks. Not just the folks experiencing homelessness, trying to get housed out of the shelter I work in, but also those who are looking for homelessness prevention, who are just barely hanging on to their rental units here in town.
 I love the idea of this project and as the data so beautifully demonstrated how many individuals will be could Be affected by this project. I was thinking about specific individuals who would benefit from this and
 People like the gentleman who rides his bike even when it's 11 degrees outside to Springdale overnight. He can't ride the bus because it doesn't run then, but he makes more money on the night shift and is very excited that he's now working his second job and tries to get a few hours of sleep in an overcrowded shelter. This would be in his price range.
 The teenager who's going to Fayetteville Public Schools sharing a family room with toddlers and a two-month-old baby Right now trying to find a quiet corner to do his homework This would be within his mother's budget And then also I think about the game changer that the Fayetteville Housing Authority has been since leadership has changed I've watched lives change
 people who I never thought would be housed, people whom all of your officers probably know by name because they were called to action so many times, now housed and thriving in this community. And when we have more affordable housing, that opens up more public vouchers, public housing for those who are only making $7.70 a month in disability, and that might be the only option for them.
 So I wanted to come and speak for those who would benefit from it, those who would benefit from public housing, and unfortunately those we've lost in our community who died while they were waiting for a public housing spot to open.
 Our community is collaborating on housing better than any time before. The By Name List mentioned by Angela Belford. I'm part of a group of probably a dozen agencies and every week tomorrow I'll be with those individuals and we'll be discussing all the individuals on that list who need affordable housing and trying to come up with a plan with that.
 And I just can't even begin to describe how important it is that the start of 90 additional affordable housing units would be.
 and also for the social worker standing before you today who every time sees a new development come in her own neighborhood, worries that she might be the next to be priced out of her community that she loves and works in every day. So I thank you very much for the time for the comment and for those behind this project because I really think it would improve so many lives. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi. Evelyn Rios Stafford, 527 South Sherman.
 uh ward one um as you know i'm a fayetteville housing authority commissioner and uh i just wanted to also come up and speak in favor of this project um i really first heard about this project found out about it last week when i was at planning commission to listen about a different issue
 And I loved everything that I heard about this and everything I've read about it since. It's exactly the kind of project that Fayetteville needs. And in fact, I hope we see more of these kinds of projects in the future.
 and especially where it is. It's especially needed, you know, the way that it's situated on the west side of town, on the other side of the interstate. It's an area that's sorely lacking in this kind of attainable housing project. We know from our housing authority data,
 that that side of town has some of the higher average rents in Fayetteville. So it's, you know, I think it's gonna definitely help out there.
 In terms of the funding and the financing, it's something from listening, it's something I'm very familiar with because it's things that we've had discussions about at the Housing Authority. These same kind of tax credits, it's been a very familiar conversation. As Angela mentioned, we've kind of gone back and forth over that. And just finally, I know that you're being asked tonight to sort of execute
 accelerate your normal process in order to approve this with you know walking on the um the motion and going to the third reading but because of the the timeline involved um you know with the funding and everything like that I would definitely encourage you to approve it thank you thank you who else would like to address this okay I'm going to bring it back to the council uh Sonya
 Yes. I'm not sure who this goes to, but are there any market rate, the regular, or is it all subsidized, all the rental units? Are they all subsidized, all the units with the… My understanding, there are nine or ten that are market rate. Market rate. The rest of them are subsidized.
 subsidized and then maybe this is a question for Jim or not sure are they there's there's some vouchers that Angela Belford knows a lot about will you be able to take those vouchers do you know what I'm talking about
 Yes, ma'am. This, and Jeff talked about this, this is not public housing. We are not competing with Angela and the Federal Housing Authority, but through their voucher program, they are welcome. We won't necessarily target them. Either way, we'll target those that are in need. If they have a voucher, then great. If they don't, that's okay as well. But you're open to take them? You can? We are actually prohibited through the laws from discriminating against voucher holders. Okay.
 So there's extra strength in that. And then on the market rate, is that those 10, can you fluctuate through that from the 10? Or do you have to just, are you going to stick with the 10? Yeah.
 We can it really is is dependent upon the The land itself like we we could there might be nine there might be eleven But the units that are affordable are fixed and and whatever we have as far as the market rate Those will be fixed as far as the physical unit that themselves. All right. Thank you Okay, sure Yes on in our packet. I
 I believe the view of the property, I think it's pages 21 through 25. I don't recall seeing on the presentation, and maybe I just forgot it, but that there's a little arm of property that shows in our packet that goes over to, I forgot what the street is.
 Sunshine Road? Sunshine Road. Is that, was that in their packet, or is that something that was removed, or am I just delusional right now? So that could happen too. It's part of the annexation request. Okay. Yes. Now, and this is part, this is in the farm section. Yes. Okay. And this would remain, I'll go to the zoning exhibit here.
 It would remain zone RA. And that's also, the farm is located in this area, and the environmentally sensitive areas are along the creek on the northern end. Okay. I think what I may have had in my mind was the part that was going to be built on that was just a rectangle that we were shown in one of the slides versus this farm section attached to the top of it. So thank you.
 Okay, smile move to spin the rules and go to a second reading Are you okay? I'm sorry Sir I'll second that motion. We have a motion a second to go to the second reading Please call the roll Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Gutierrez yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes, and
 And ordinance approved the annexation petition of the Fayetteville Housing Partners and annexed 34.85 acres of land located at 2010 North 54th Street. Slugger. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Funch. Yes. Turr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 in order to approve the annexation petition of the fayetteville housing partners and annexed 34.85 acres of land located at 2010 north 54th street okay final comments there oh sorry uh thank you mayor i appreciate everybody's enthusiasm on the uh advanced readings there and i hope that's an indicator of your vote for the project because um i did not uh bring this lightly i i think
 Knowing the the hoops who were going to jump through tonight or that I was going to ask you to jump through tonight to do this Was was kind of a big ask and so I appreciate that I want to tell you a little bit about why I was willing to do that I sat down with these folks and looked at their plan and As they described it it really started checking all the boxes it is
 a variety of housing types which we talk about being important it is affordable affordability but with diversity the mixed income part those those extra 10 units that that bring in variety to the community i think are important and they didn't they didn't talk about that here but i know that they already have folks from the the church that are eager to join this community and and be part of it um
 This brings in part of our enduring green network on the north end into the city where it's currently not already their plans are Consistent with our street and trail plans. They've put a lot of thought into designing for future connectivity Which I talked about a lot and this even comes with a working farm for food production We've got a place for people. We've got a place for people
 We've got jobs, we've got a place for nature, we've got a place for food. This has pretty much everything except location and there was a little bit of talk at the Planning Commission about this being a little far out there outside our growth boundary and I'll admit that. But you know, you can't move land and free is free when affordability is the major factor,
 Land cost drives that and and this was given to some folks who? I'm glad they took it. I'm glad that they've decided to put this This put it to this use even if it means We may have to work a little harder to to get transit services out there This is an opportunity for a healthy inclusive neighborhood for our growing city, and and I hope that y'all will support it Okay, any other final comments? Oh? I want you please call the roll
 Scroggins yes yes yes yes yes yes yes marsh yes Kenyon yes okay number two an artistry zone that property described in his own petition RZN 920-69H2 for approximately 24.81 acres located at 1210 North 54th Street from RA residential agricultural to RIU residential intermediate urban and CS community services kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RIA Residential Agricultural to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and CS Community Services.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Yes mayor, I think the zoning has been pretty well discussed I'd be happy to answer any questions the Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval of the zoning request I
 Okay. Kyle, do you want to add anything to that? Just that even if something were to happen and this project couldn't go forward, I think this is appropriate zoning for the area. I think this is way better than a lot of projects we see. Okay. Does Abt have anything he wants to add? He does. Okay. All right. Does the council have any questions for anybody? Okay. Do we have any other public comment on the rezoning?
 Okay, bring it back to the council. All right, so maybe spend the rules and go to second reading sir second We have a motion to second to go to the second reading care. Would you please call roll? It's groggin. Yes Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 20-69-82 for approximately 24.81 acres located at 1210 North 54th Street from RA Residential Agricultural to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and CS Community Services. Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Care to please call the roll.
 Scroggin yes, butch yes, Turk yes Smith yes Gutierrez yes harsh yes Yes, and nor niche to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-69 82 for approximately 24.81 acres located at 1210 North 54th Street from RA residential agricultural to RIU residential intermediate urban and CS community services any final comments from the council
 Everybody good? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much, and thank you all. All right. Number three.
 a resolution to prove cost share agreement with town west capital partners one llc for the construction of a regional sewer lift station sewer forest main and upsize sewer mains for the development of town west subdivision with an amount not to exceed two million four hundred seventy five thousand four hundred forty dollars and eighty nine cents to be paid by the city of federal and to approve a project contingency in the amount of 247 544.9 cents thank you mayor
 Town West Capital Partners LLC is developing the 30-acre Town West subdivision on the west side of South Ripper Road between North Alberta Street and West Tofino Drive. The subdivision must provide a sewer lift station in order to be able to move wastewater towards the existing city infrastructure.
 However, to accommodate full build out in the future, the lift station needs to be sized to provide capacity not only for this subdivision, but for the larger 415 acre basin that currently has no sewer and is expected to be developed in the future.
 The design and size of this system will create a regional solution to the larger 450-acre basin and avoid the need to build multiple smaller lift stations throughout the basin. This is an advantage opportunity operationally for the city and keeps long-term operation maintenance costs to a minimum.
 this regional lift station will pump directly to the west side wastewater treatment facility avoiding costly repumping and capacity consumption were the developer to build their own lift stations and discharge to the existing gravity lines in the vicinity resolution 73-19 was passed on march 19th of 2019 expressing the city council's intent to cost share for this project seeing the benefits listed of a regional approach
 The developer received a quote from Gene Nichols, LLC, for $2,373,554.91. The calculated flow rates from this development are 15% of the full build-out flows. So the cost share is an 85% city and 15%.
 developer this makes the city portion of the cost year two million seventeen thousand three hundred eighty dollars and eighty nine cents and
 Additionally, the gravity sewer bringing the wastewater to the lift station needs upgrade from 8-inch to 10-, 12-, and 15-inch lines. The cost of the upsize is $458,060. This makes the city's total amount of cost share not to exceed $10,475,440.89. Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing account within the Water
 this item was presented to the water and sewer committee on january the 14th with a four to zero vote to afford it to the city council for their consideration also i have mr brandon rush here from esi who would answer questions for the applicants okay would the applicant like to say something to the council yeah okay all right does the council have any questions
 Is that good? Went through the water and sewer, everything, everything? Yeah, this is a good deal and it's timely, so. I totally agree with you. Kyle? Yeah, unlike two weeks ago, I think this is exactly in a high-growth area that I fully support. I do have a, I guess, question about how the phase development happens. Here we're looking at 15% to this developer and 85% to the city, but those are,
 that 85% that's our area, we know a lot of that is likely going to see future development. Do we recoup that from future developments at all? Is there an impact fee or how does that get? No, we don't ask the developers to start paying as they come on. We're going to pay for it with impact fees which are designated to increase capacity of the service system. Okay. So once that service is there, it's there and it doesn't cost them anything to use?
 there's there's usage fees but it doesn't cost them anything additional to build that's correct it would be a public system thank you okay any other questions from council all right any public comment on this okay right back to the council all right move to approve mark i'll second that we have a motion to second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council all right care would you please call the road
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
 Okay, number four. A resolution to award bid number 20-26 an authorized contract with TriStar Contractors LLC in the amount of $620,456.38 for the Upper Skull Creek 2 Drainage Improvements Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $93,068 into premium budget adjustments. This is part of our 2019 sales tax bond that was passed by the people.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is one of our drainage bond projects. That's one that we had designed and we're waiting on funding, so we were able to move forward with bidding very quickly.
 the project collects storm water near the intersection of Rebecca and Olive in the historic district conveys it down Olive down Johnson Street to Walnut which ties in with the with the previous phase of the Upper Skull Creek project so if you've ever been out there during a rain Johnson Street is
 It's basically a river at the time of heavy rain, so I do have a lot of yard flooding and a couple of properties that have been damaged by this stormwater.
 We received five bids for the project. TriStar was the low bidder. It actually was about $200,000 below our estimate, so we got a really good bid here. We also have a project contingency of 15% to cover any unforeseen events. And we recommend approval of this contract. What questions do we have for Chris on this? All right, any public comment on this one?
 Okie dokie. Bring it back to the council. Sonia. Move we approve. We have a second. Tracy. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Number five.
 an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoned petition rzn 19-6966 for approximately 1.38 acres located at 1340 north porter road from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban kit
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map
 I have the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Go ahead. Yes, Mayor. This request is located on the east side of Porter Road across the street from Cornerstone Place and Lawson Street is to the south. There's a church to the north. The rest of the surrounding land uses are single-family with the exception.
 of an apartment complex to the southwest catty corners across the surrounding zoning is also rsf4 with the exception of the rmf12 across the street and rmf6 north on porter road the adopted plans is designated as residential neighborhood area it encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density where appropriate
 The proposal is for form-based zoning. It's consistent with the old traditional town form, livable transportation network. The issues discussed at the Planning Commission were surrounding zoning and land uses. I thought I'd do just a little bit of a retrospective.
 Before I worked for Fayetteville, City Council passed a new zoning district and one of the goals of that district, it was the RIU district, was to encourage what is sometimes called missing middle housing. As you'll recall, missing middle housing is intended to fill a gap and the gap is both income and land use type.
 In terms of land use types, since World War II, as you all know, we get subdivisions, we get strips, retail centers, office parks, and apartment complexes, all separated, all with their own parking, and all basically demanding a car to get from one to the other. Missing Metal is trying to allow and encourage housing types in an infill location.
 for single-family duplex, triplexes, or fourplexes. It's been applied by council in numerous instances on small infill locations. This happens to be on Porter Road, north of this site, and you can see they've chosen to build single-family homes. Of course, that gets the exemption from some of the city's requirements.
 Another example is South College Avenue, again a small area rezoning through R-I-U, and again a single family small lot. The district is known to allow small lots, smaller than any other district in Fayetteville. So I just wanted to show you, we keep seeing these. I thought I'd go back out and see what's been built and
 revisit the idea behind it as I understand it but Planning Commission staff do recommend approval of this this request you happy to answer any questions yes I think miss Ross is here Ashley Ross you have any questions for me okay no questions okay in questions for the staff
 This wasn't a straight line vote. There was some split in this. Is that correct? I believe it was that the issue was that the applicant had asked for RMF 12, and planning commission suggested, and the applicant agreed to RIU instead. I don't believe it was a split vote, but I can check here in a second. I thought it was 6-2. I could be looking at the wrong one.
 Okay, what are the court Teresa? You know we've talked about area neighborhoods that are that are somewhat stable and I can tell you the neighborhood to the southeast is a Very stable neighborhood at my it's modest. It's not an expensive neighborhood It's just hard for me to see how this is actually going to fit in transition into that very stable neighborhood to the southeast and
 So I don't know if that applicant would like to describe what their plans are to put on there or not that's up to you, but That house directly to the east. I mean that is right on the property line of the Property that we're discussing to rezone. Okay. This property has been in our family since 1939 1940
 And it's been sitting vacant for some time. And, I mean, we just want to do something with it because, I mean, it's, you know, it doesn't really matter what. We just need to do something with it at this point. I realize that house is in bad disrepair. I go past there almost every day. Yeah. Yeah.
 So you really don't know exactly what you're going to do with it quite yet? Not at the moment, yeah. I mean, the house is obviously unlivable, so yeah, we need to tear that down and do something with it. Thank you. Mayor, may I ask him one question? Sure. You began with a different zoning, but this is now the zoning you want, RIU-19.
 That was what the Planning Commission recommended. Yes, but I want to know, is that what you are asking the City Council for the rezoning? This is your request now? Yes, I'm perfectly fine with that, yes. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Sarah. I'd just like to remind the Council that we're not allowed to consider what the development proposal is. It's only the rezoning request, and so it's irrelevant what he may or may not intend to build. Okay. Okay.
 Anything else? Well, let's take some public comment. Any public comment on this issue? Reason? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Risa? I was actually going to ask that we hold it so that the public has more notification that this is going on. Since nobody is speaking up right now, I'm not sure they've gotten the word out. Okay.
 So second all right. We have a motion in the second go to the second reading Care which police call the roll Scroggins yes, but yes Turk no Smith yes the terrace yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon no Mayor that's five votes in favor of motion to spend the rules require six votes you care to vote I'm not gonna vote we told him that two weeks all right remains on the first reading Yeah
 Number six, no one wants to approve vacation 19-69-73 for property located at 3277 North College Avenue to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of a general utility, easement, and right-of-way are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the water and sewer easement as described in exhibit b attached to the plane department's memo section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's agenda memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk in section 3
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a 15-foot by 20-foot utility easement shall be dedicated at the southwest corner of the subject property as shown on Exhibit C of the Planning Department's memo.
 Garner. Yeah, Mayor. This is located south of Longview Street, west of College Avenue. There's a car dealership across the street and the one to the west, a storage lot to the west for a dealership. No need was identified for this easement and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. Okay. Questions for Garner on this?
 Okay, any public comment on this? Yep. Yes, my name is Alan Reed and I'm here representing the VF Holdings. And I mean we concur with everything the staff says. I just had a question for Kit and that is when they dedicate this new easement that's 15 by 20 feet, how is that dedicated? Is that through the plat itself or does it have to be a separate document?
 It could be either way, but if you're gonna follow the plat with this which you probably will then you can just dedicate it on The plat okay. Thank you, and I'll answer any questions Yeah, hey any public comment on this Okay, go right back to the council. So move to suspend the rules and go to second reading So second every motion is saying to go to the second reading I
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, Kenyon. Yes in order to approve the AC 19-69 73 for property located at 3277 North College Avenue to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement Okay, slow moves spend rules and go to third and final reading so second we have motion a second to go to the third and Finally
 scroggin yes punch turk yes smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes kenyan yes and norwich approved vac 19-69-73 for property located at 3277 north college avenue to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement any final comments from the council on this okay care which please call the
 scrogan yes bunch yes turk yes smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes kenyan yes okay number seven an ordinance to approve thank you number seven an ordinance to approve a commercial plant zoning district entitled cpzd 19-6952 for approximately 8.60 acres
 Located at 5102 West Weddington Drive to allow the development of many storage units and accessory office and retail space. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approve C.PZD 19-69-52 as described in Exhibit A, B, and C attached to the Planning Division's Agenda Memo, which allows the development of approximately 110,000 square feet of mini storage units and 2,000 square feet of accessory office and retail space. Section 2.
 This CPZD approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, the area south of the proposed mini storage structures that is alternatively described as right-of-way and access easement shall be dedicated as right-of-way at the time of development. Number two, an access easement shall be dedicated between the proposed parking lot serving the office retail building and the property to the east.
 Section 3 that's official zoning map of the City of favorables hereby approved to reflect the zoning criteria change Provided in section 1 above. Okay Yes, this request is a rectangular parcel It's located actually across the street from the cobblestone request Are close to cross street? yet it's a planned zoning district so specific uses are proposed and can be discussed and
 The existing zoning and the surrounding zoning is residential agriculture, presently. The proposal, and this is the site plan that was submitted with the planned zoning district, is for an office retail building at the Weddington entrance.
 and for the mini storage, four mini storage buildings, rectangular buildings to be built to the south with the required storm drainage retention facility at the southern end before Owl Creek. Here's a rendering of the general concepts that the office retail building would reflect
 and a rendering of the mini storage building. Issues that we looked at were existing plan land use compatibility, consistency with the city plan goals, the city plan 2040 future land use plan designates this for residential neighborhood. So staff felt that this
 particular development wasn't as planned um two weeks ago i showed you this slide that lists the items that city council may consider uh factors that you can consider in review of a planned zoning district application and i won't read these but it is you can you can look at a large list of
 uh issues that you may want to consider in your decision planning commission discussed this item and was concerned as staff was with the rectangular nature of the development and the fact that it didn't have any connectivity
 They requested a connection and the applicant agreed to dedicate a 43-foot right-of-way at the southern end between the mini storage facility and the retention pond. While that addressed one of the issues that staff had, we still have other issues. We feel that it isn't really compatible with...
 either the existing land uses, the rural nature of this area, or the goals for the area as articulated in 2040. So staff does recommend that you deny this request. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions? Is the applicant here? Would they like to? Okay.
 Yeah mayor council members. My name is Tom Henley and with craft and toll Garner did do you happen to have the revised layout that I sent you this afternoon? Uh Tom I I did not get back to my office. I was okay pretty much going I can't if I can pass this one around I
 I've been working with this client for over a year trying to fill a niche in the city that is a lack of small self-storage units. And we've looked at a multitude of different sites. This one became available. We met with with planning commission.
 They suggested some revisions. We tabled it, revised it, brought it back to them. They requested another couple of revisions, which we complied with, and brought it back to them again, which is the plan that you've got in front of you. I think it's important to note that Planning Commission approved this unanimously.
 like I said we've been working with them over the course of a number of weeks we've got no adjacent property owners objecting to this we've we've agreed to completely isolate the the actual storage facilities and screen them from any public right-of-way with berms and landscaping we've got
 landscape easements all the way around the project. It'll virtually be invisible. I'm not sure, you know, what else can be done. I know that that staff has got to comply with the 2030 plan when they make their recommendations based on land use, but the fact of the matter is that
 That is almost a de facto zoning for for somebody's property. If that's the only thing that they're allowed to get it zone to is what the land use plan shows. Um, our contention is that we, we really need in in.
 The staff report suggests that these need to be located at major intersections or in light industrial areas. And I know that there is no zoning available by right for mini storage within the code. I get it.
 They're a hard thing to try and work in. I think there's areas around town where they've been worked in reasonably. And I think this is an over-the-top attempt to completely conceal what everybody
 what everybody agrees can be unsightly if it's not well maintained. The building out front will look like a residential structure. It's allowed uses that are minor retail uses for the sale of boxes and tape and markers and those type things that are associated with this type of use.
 When we went to Planning Commission the last time, of course, they were concerned about the block length of the depth of the property and the traditional town form cross-access. So we consolidated the four buildings into two large buildings, are completely fine with dedicating 43 feet of right-of-way through there, and oddly enough, that
 Pretty much lines up with the street to the West Clevenger, which I think is a private street, but it does line up with that. So there is as this develops, people will know that they're developing around this type of facility, which will be completely screened. So, that's.
 I'm not sure what else I can tell you. The only the only people we've talked to about this that don't agree with the use in this part of town is staff and I get that that's their job is to go off the land use plan but.
 As opposed to driving all the way across town out to the airport or out to the industrial park to store your stuff, we think it's reasonable that these types of facilities, if they're built properly, can be located in the areas that people need to use them. There's residential neighborhoods all around this part of town. There's college students. Every time I come to Planning Commission, either I'm presenting a project that has –
 small, incredibly small lots, or we're approving infill projects. And the people that live in those projects need a place to store their stuff. I mean, this is just a necessity in a community to have these types of facilities. So we think we've gone above and beyond. Not that there's obviously not a...
 a code for how a mini storage needs to be developed because one's not allowed in city without a Conditional use or a PZD But we think that this is if there ever was a model for how one should be developed This is it I can answer any questions you guys may have what questions we have the staff or the applicant Question for Garner. What is our codes maximum block length and
 600 even and that's a maximum. Do we have a rule of thumb for what an ideal block length is? I think that's a context specific question, depending on the land use and the topography and density. And when you see variances to block length come forward, how far off of the maximum 600 are those usually?
 it's not uncommon to ask for uh adjustments to the planning commission on block lengths but the ones i've looked at that they've granted there were some topographic reasons or there were street intersections that really kind of demanded that they were connecting to that you could that were already established that you couldn't achieve that block length um i think there were
 But they usually run, are they normally? Under 600. What's that? I think they use the variances or? Yeah. How far over the 600 are normally approved variances? I'm not sure I can tell you exactly the number, but they're usually requests for adjustments
 for specific reasons. Okay. I'm just trying to wrap my head around, since we don't hear those, I'm just trying to wrap my head around what the kind of the normal process is. Are they 605 feet? Are they 700 feet? Are they 1,200 feet? I don't recall seeing any 1,200 foot variances since I've been here. Would this development have to receive a variance at development time?
 to build what they're showing in their PZD? The plat, I think, yes. Okay, thank you. Theresa. This is the first time I've kind of seen a storage unit come before, at least in my tenure here. So I've got some questions. Have there been any problems in terms of security and crime and that sort of thing associated with this kind of development around the city? Do we know anything about that?
 I'm not aware of any special issues with crime. The chief might address that. He might know a little something about that. Yeah, nothing that comes to mind as far as crime goes. I mean, just like any other development in town, you have issues where you might have crimes of opportunity that present themselves, that typically these types of crimes
 of developments have security and they're fenced in so only people that have access are gaining entry to them. So very rarely do we experience any type of crime at these types of developments. Okay, thank you. Since, you know, where they're in a neighborhood area, it's still rural but there's certainly neighbors around. Okay, thank you. Yes. So, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Based on the 2030 plan, would there have been a different recommendation? Or do you think that the recommendation from staff is really based more on the new plan, on the 2040 plan? They have the same designation here. Oh, it's the same. 2030 designated this residential neighborhood also. As well. Okay, so there wasn't any change. There was no change.
 So like the future land use map that we had planned out there in 2030 says what it did then, which is what it says in 2040. It's identical designation. Okay. Thanks. Mr. Long. I've got a question for the applicant. Is this going to be gated? I'm sorry, say that again. Is this going to be gated? It will be. If you can go under a few of them, I'm pulling up the old site plan.
 So if you look at the top of the, say, that peninsula in the northernmost area, you can see the two light green areas. Those are what will be bermed and landscaped. And then before that, we were concerned about, from a criminal activity standpoint, people getting behind those berms and out of sight. So the gating will be done north of those berms with a keypad entry.
 okay thank you um so i know when we're talking about variances on block length uh generally we're talking about stuff that's outside of the gated community um i'm a lot more okay with a variance on block length than an area that is actually kind of gated off most of the time um
 If we're super concerned about that, we may want to look at requiring like a stop sign in between the buildings or something of that nature to get people to slow down. But I don't think we're going to have a lot of people, you know, drag racing through here and running over kids that you normally have in a neighborhood. So I feel a little more comfortable on block link there. Okay.
 Can you give me just a second to just kind of expound on that, would that be all right? I'll give you a minute. The, uh, so it's important that we look at the exhibit that I passed around as well as understanding that the entire site is fenced. And so the only cross-access on the right-of-way that we have,
 that we dedicated is outside the fenced area so that'll only be that'll be a public access that will not have a gated entry though everybody will have to come in through the north and so everybody that's in there is probably either driving a u-haul or pulling a trailer or something like that traffic speeding and safety are really not an issue within the site fragile stuff right okay thank you uh may i clarify something uh yep
 The issue is, this is designated for a residential neighborhood. If this develops into a residential neighborhood and this is also sparsely developed, how do we connect those neighborhoods?
 So we're talking about connectivity, future connectivity, which an elongated exclusive area like this blocks. The Planning Commission had that issue and the developer offered a connection here, but the proposal to date is not that they'll build that. That connectivity may or may not happen.
 it is also a long block I would say that since this is a new design that you only were able to hand out tonight that it probably makes more sense not to try to pass this tonight we redesigned it and sent it to Planning Commission and it was it was forwarded to staff this afternoon or this morning when it was requested
 I'm just saying in reality the City Council has only seen this this one copyright like I understand and and so there might be some some confusion still or not sure I'll be crystal clear to the City Council at this point in time and this is a big rezoning so I think
 I know you would like to get this approved and go forward. It's not just that. It's the fact that we were tabled three times at Planning Commission, and real estate contracts have been extended and extended and extended, and we followed all the rules. But I get it, and you guys haven't seen it, and you haven't had the opportunity to kind of absorb it. And that's the situation, so that's where we're at. And these are the guys that make the final decision. Correct. Okay.
 okay do we have any public comment on this okay go right back to the council all right what y'all want to do kyle well i hope we will hold it here uh i have i think garner echoed some or clarified some of my concerns on block length it's it's less about the internal block length and more about the uh a development that necessitates variances for future development and cuts off two sides
 i've pounded my fist enough times about the need for local streets on our our master street plan in these green fields so that we don't get piecemeal transportation networks designed by people who have a very limited scope of concern i think this is a perfect example of where we have to guard the the connectivity in the region because we know what weddington is like
 and alternative routes to Weddington are absolutely going to be a necessary part of cleaning up that mess. So I hope I won't say any more about it tonight. I hope that this is where we leave it. Okay. Everybody just want to leave it here? Everybody good? All right. We'll leave it right here. All right. Let's go on to number eight. An ordinance to amend 158.02 cash bond of the Federal Unified Development Code
 to allow contractors working within the public rights of way to post additional forms of bonds. Whereas section 158.02 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, which requires bonds for working within public rights of way, is the only portion of the City Code that does not allow contractors to post alternative forms of bonds such as surety bonds and letters of credit,
 and staff recommends that we provide this additional option which is more consistent with the practices of peer cities throughout the region and state. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 158.02 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code and enacts a new Section 158.02 for the purposes of allowing more flexibility in the types of bonds that will be accepted and to establish guidelines for persons performing work within the public rights-of-way as follows. Section 158.02, Excavation in Public Rights-of-Way, Cash, or Surety Bond Required, Subsection A,
 No person or contractor shall make any excavation in the public right-of-way unless a bond is first deposited with the City for the purpose of guaranteeing repair and replacement of City infrastructure in the public right-of-way. Said bond shall be an amount equivalent to the estimated cost of properly repairing and replacing City infrastructure in the public right-of-way as determined by the Mayor or his newly authorized representative.
 To satisfy this requirement, the person or contractor may provide a cash bond, surety bond, or irrevocable letter of credit. Permanent bonds or letters of credit held by the City under terms of an existing franchise agreement shall be considered sufficient to fulfill the surety requirements for any person or contractor acting as an agent for the franchise holder.
 the franchise holder shall submit a letter or other document verifying that the person or contractor is the franchisee's agent and is covered by the franchise holder's standing bond or letter of credit.
 Subsection B, a person or contractor in the business of performing utility construction and or maintenance that requires excavation of public right-of-way or is engaged in a contract reform work that includes excavation of public right-of-way may provide a standing bond sufficient to cover the scope of the expected number of permits applicable to each and every site upon which to work is scheduled to take place and where a permit will be required.
 The standing bond will remain in place until the completion of all permitted work, and all permitted work is fully inspected by the City and deemed to be satisfactory. Subsection C. The bond shall be forfeited.
 or in part thereof, if within 60 days after written notice, the person or contractor fails to reimburse the City for documented expenses incurred for its failure to comply with the rules of public safety, failure to close the opening within 24 hours after work has been completed, failure to complete the backfill and repair in accordance with specifications,
 Failure to complete the necessary cleanup or repair of damage to public property, including but not limited to street subgrade, asphalt surface, concrete surface, curb and gutter, sidewalk and or all infrastructure located within the public right-of-way or causing damage to vehicular or other traffic.
 Subsection D, bond release. Upon completion of the work within the public right-of-way, the person or contractor who obtained the permit shall contact the city to schedule an inspection. The city will inspect the work within five business days to determine if work is complete and if any damages were caused. Subsection one, if damage to the public right-of-way has occurred due to the permitted work, the city will provide the person or contractor a list of required repairs,
 all repairs must be completed within 30 days. Subsection A, once repairs are completed, the City shall be notified for a follow-up inspection. Once repairs have been confirmed, the bond will be released. Subsection B, if repairs are not completed within 30 days, and the person or contractor has failed to compensate the City for the City's expenses incurred in making such repairs within 60 days after written notice,
 the bond will be forfeited. Subsection 2, if no damages were caused, the bond will be released.
 Okay, Chris. All right. Thank you mayor. This issue came to light recently as we updated our The amounts that we were requiring for deposits to do work within the right-of-way They've been not been updated for many years. So we updated them to reflect the actual cost if we had to go in and make repairs and
 that a contractor damaged the street or whatever didn't didn't repair it properly or didn't repair it at all. So we wanted to make sure and cover the city's expenses. So when that happened, we had several of the utility companies begin discussing that the option for
 something other than a cash bond, which currently ordinance allows only a cash bond. So I work with the city attorney to provide this new ordinance that allows, again, for other types of bonding. It also provides clarity and direction on how we would call the bond, when we would call the bond, and also the release of any of those bonds or deposits. So I think it's a good
 good ordinance that allows us more flexibility but still allows us to protect our rights plate okay what questions we have for chris on this this may actually be for kit um is this a precedence for this in other uh cities is this something yes this is more in conformance with what other cities in the region and the state are doing obviously it is actually simpler just require cash yeah um
 It doesn't require as much homework and being cautious and making sure that if it's a letter of credit it hasn't run out things like that, but I think the Engineering Department is ready to perform that and and even though this is a little bit more difficult for the city is certainly much easier and less costly to these contractors doing work in our Right of way and so that's why I think we're willing to do that. Would we possibly get more betters on some of the projects?
 this i'm sorry what would we possibly get more bidders when we do rfqs and stuff like that changing bond requirements um well i i would say with these these bonds are required for development or other utility work so these aren't
 contractors that are working for the city there are ones that are working within the right of way that we're issuing permits for to allow them to work and that's what gives us the basically the ability to make repairs if we need to and call those bonds and get our money reimbursed okay thank you we have a little protection because we're getting a letter from the franchise holder that this person is working for them and we have a long history with these franchise holders any other questions
 all right do we have any public comment on this so you're not bringing back to the council mark i spend i maybe we should spin the rules and go to the next reading please second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading here would you please call the road scroggin yes lunch yes turk yes smith yes peteris yes marsh yes kenyan yes
 and the ordinance amends section 158.02 cash bond of the fatal unified development code to allow contractors working within the public rights of way to post additional forms of bonds mark i move we spend the rules and go to the third reading sir second we have a motion second to give the third and final reading care which please call the run
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, and your order some men section 158 o to cash bond of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to allow contractors working within the public rights of way to post additional forms of bonds Okay, any final comments from the council on this? Okay care, but you please call her up. Oh
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, Marsh. Yes, yes, okay. Thank you all well that concludes our business for tonight What announcements do we have we have a few announcements mayor? Tomorrow from 9 to 3 we will have blood donations on the square So if you were so inclined we encourage you to please contribute we have
 I just recently announced our second annual Bradford Pear Bounty. And so this is the attempt to encourage residents to remove invasive species and if they do so then there is a prize that would be a shrub or a tree. So all of the details on that are posted on the website.
 The Bradford pear bounty goes until early April, so we have plenty of time. Residents send in a picture of what they have removed, and then they are thus rewarded to pick up a plant, a shrub, or a tree.
 We've issued calls for nominations for Fayetteville Historic Preservation Awards for 2020. Again all of the details are on the website at Historic Preservation. But the deadline for nominations for, if any residents are interested in nominating candidates for the awards, the deadline will be Thursday, April 2nd at 5 p.m. And finally, I believe there's one more.
 Actually, that's it. Thank you. Okay. Any other announcements? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.