I would like to call the City Council meeting on February the 17th, 2015, to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in pledge of allegiance? Pledge of allegiance to the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God.
 Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 3rd, 2015 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $23,098 representing donations to Rangers Pantry and CDBG program income received from two housing program lien payoffs.
 Number three, resolution award bid number 15-17, it authorized the purchase of an LED trail light fixtures from AmeriLux Exterior LLC in the amount of $1,450 per light fixture plus split taxes in variable amounts as needed through the end of calendar year 2015. Thank you.
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 15-17 and to authorize the purchase of fiberglass trail light poles from Alliance Composites Incorporated in the amount of $450 per light pole plus applicable taxes and variable amounts as needed through the end of calendar year 2015.
 Number five resolution authorized contract with King electric contractors in the amount of thirty four thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars Pursuant to bid number ten dash forty seven for the installation of LED Trail light fixtures and light poles along the town branch trail and to prove a ten percent project contingency. I
 Number six, a resolution to authorize the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC for final design services for water and sewer relocations associated with Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department Project BB0414 Interstate 49 and Highway 112 interchange in an amount not to exceed $102,742.50 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number seven.
 A resolution to approve pass order number two with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center for continued maintenance of previously completed stream restoration projects near Cosco Creek and the White River through 2015 in the amount of $62,500 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number 8 resolution award bid number 15 dash 16 and to authorize a contract with Camelon services LLC any amount of a 149,191 dollars to plant trees and shrubs in the medium of crossover road between Township Avenue and Joyce Boulevard and in the medium of Garland Avenue between Mount Comfort Road and Janice Avenue and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $15,000.
 i will accept can entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda's red second i have a motion saying to accept the consent agenda's red sondra would you please call the road mature yes long here yes right yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes okay first thing we're going to do the second thing we're going to do tonight is open up a public hearing
 Public hearing repeal and replace Title 5 public works and amend chapter 51 and chapter 10. I will now open it up the public hearing. Anybody? Just to notify the public, obviously we've read their ordinance in the past and if anybody has any questions, we have the water and sewer director here. Okay. Any comments from the public on this? Okay. I will bring it back, close the public hearing.
 I guess next order of business is repeal and replace Title 5 Public Works Amendment Chapter 51, Chapter 10. You want to move, suspend the rules and go to third and final reading? Yes. Okay. Suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Was there a second to the motion? Second. Senator, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes.
 An ordinance to repeal and replace Title V Public Works Article III discharge and pretreatment regulations to amend section 51.137 monthly sewer rates, to amend section 51.138 definitions pertaining to water and sewer rates, to amend section 51.999 penalty, and to amend section 10.99 general penalty of the fail code. What final comments do we have in the council on this before we vote?
 Yes, John. Mayor, do we have any idea what will happen to sewer rates under this proposal? Will they go up or down? Tim, come on up. Please answer. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. As far as the rate studies goes, that will be dependent on a rate study by a consulting firm in the city of Fayetteville. The rate adjustments in the pretreatment ordinance is merely for septage haulers that actually bring loads to the treatment plant and discharge directly into the treatment plant.
 So we're going to have a rate study in the future that will be brought back to the City Council in case the rates need to change, is that right? Yes, sir. What did you say about this only applies to people bringing loads for treatment? Would this not apply to each consumer, homeowner in Fayetteville? Those rates are put in with the rate study. Were you employed by our city the last two or three times we did a rate study on sewage rates? No, sir. You were not? No, sir. Okay.
 It'd be interesting to see each time we did a rate study, did the rates go up or down? We can certainly get you that information. I'd be very interested in that information. Thank you, Tim. Mark. Just for clarification, this is the language to take our current code and put it in compliance with the suggestion of the ADQ and the EPA. So this specific revision of the code that we're talking about tonight doesn't have a direct impact on us.
 on the on rates. Okay. And we've talked about this in water sewer. Yes, sir. And basically we're bringing some terminology up to make it in line with current usage because it was out of line with current usage. There's new terms. So and then it puts it into segments as suggested by the ADEQ and the EPA moving it from one section to the other section.
 This the code that we're talking about tonight is not does not have an impact on right It was only under abundance of caution that we went ahead and publicize this as if it did affect the rates But the effect on rates of this particular ordinance should be very minimal if any Okay All right. Any other questions comments? Okay. All right, son always is there any public that I asked for public comment on this yet and
 Okay. All right. Bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. An unfinished business. Number one. An ordinance repeal and replace Title V, Public Works Article III discharge and pretreatment regulations to amend 51.137 monthly sewer rates. No, this is actually what we just did, Mayor. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I didn't read the whole thing, did I? All right. Number two, an order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 14-4882 for approximately 21.63 acres, located on the east side of Rupert Road, north of the Boys and Girls Club from RPZD, Residential Plan Zoning District, RPZD 06-1884, Westside Village to NS Neighborhood Services.
 I was left on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. A motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes.
 In ordinance rezoning that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4882 for approximately 21.63 acres located on the east side of Rupert Road, north of the Boys and Girls Club, from RPZD Residential Plan Zoning District, RPZD 06-10.
 1884 Westside Village to NS Neighborhood Services. I understand that the council members from Ward 4 would like to hold this on the second reading. Yes, if possible, Mr. Mayor. I've met or spoken with the Property Owners Association directly adjacent to this property and they're going to be having a meeting and they've invited me and I believe they've sent
 and I'm going to be discussing this with them just to make sure that everyone's on the same page. Speak a little bit louder so that people can hear you. Just to make sure everyone's on the same page with this. So when I have that property owner's meeting and come back, I'll hopefully by the next meeting. So if we hold it on second reading, it'll give you two more weeks. That'd be fine. Correct? Everybody good with that? Okay. All right, number three. Thank you.
 An order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 14-4883 for approximately 93.04 acres located at Highway 112 north of Truckers Drive from RPCD 05-1796 Residential Plan Zoning District Park West to RSF8 Residential Single Family 8 Units per Acre and CS Community Services. That also was left on the first reading.
 You all want to entertain a motion to go to the second reading? Well, let's suspend the rules and go to the second reading without me having to read the entire thing. We're going to go to the second reading anyway. Okay. Yes, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 14 dash 4883 from approximately 93.04 acres located highway 112 north of truckers drive from residential plans only district Park West to RSF eight residential single family eight units per acre and community services. Okay, just the council members reward for this is more for project as well. Do you want to hold that for two weeks? No, you will. I'm going to get some public comment.
 If they're right, we're going to go on here. All right, what questions? Anything new from the staff on this? No, sir. Just to remind the council, this is a staff-initiated rezoning. The current property has no zoning or development rights because it's with an expired planned zoning district approved back in 2006.
 We brought this forward to rezone the property, community services and RSF8. And you can see in the maps attached to your packet which areas are designated in each of those zones. And so staff, the Planning Commission has recommended approval. Planning Commission recommended 9 to 0 in favor of this request.
 Okay any questions from staff on yes, yeah, I've gotten a few concerned inquiries regarding the sensitive riparian areas on the site. Can you talk a little bit about what? protections those areas would have If this were to go forward sure so essentially any zoning district would you would have to look at the same thing? So it's generally at the development proposal that we would look at Whether there's a streamside protection area whether there are designated wetlands It's it's
 My memory that there are actually some already designated core wetlands on this site, which they would have to any developer would have to monitor and either stay out of or request to mitigate as part of the development plan. So that's really regardless of what zoning district is picked when the property comes under development. But it's something we're well aware of because it's upstream of Clabber Creek and sensitive riparian area to the south.
 So just to be clear that our streamside protection ordinance will protect the critical areas on the site. If it applies. We just don't know if it applies currently without a development proposal and seeing what the, if there's actually a stream bank that drains at least 100 acres, we'd have to look at our maps to understand that. Okay, thank you. But if it does apply, then we would apply that, all of those protections to the development proposal. Thank you. Okay.
 All right, we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Introduce yourself and your address for the council. Keep your remarks to the chair, which would be me. And who would like to go first? Now, the only time you get to come back is if council member brings you back up to ask questions. All right? Introduce. Thank you. Thanks, Mr. Mayor. My name is Joe Neal, and I live at 145 East Cleburne here in Fayetteville.
 and I've lived here since 1960's and I'd like to start out first by saying that I probably come into this a little bit late with my comments and I know that the city staff works way ahead on things like this and if I was more diligent I would probably know on the front end that there was maybe a better time to make the kind of comments I want to make here but so I make an apology and I don't fault anybody about this
 Back in the 1950s, when Doug James first came to the University of Arkansas to teach, there used to be flights of thousands of American golden plovers through the area that includes this parcel of property. And there were many thousands of them. And these particular birds are among many North American birds that use grasslands in part of their lifestyle.
 And so at one time, Fayetteville was a very effective part of their range in migration. But we all know what's happened to that particular area, that it's been heavily developed by what's out there now, Landers and Sam's Club and lots of things. And American golden plovers are now really unusual birds anywhere in Fayetteville. When we see them, we get all excited. And I should also mention that
 I really appreciated the map that was on the city's website. The comments that I'm making here concern just part of the track that's being discussed tonight. There are several acres here, 33.38, that are up along Dean Solomon Road and 112, and it's more of an upland site.
 And my comments are about the 59.66 acres that are sort of across from the 112 drive-in. So just to warn you, that's the place that I'm talking about. That particular property, if you dig anywhere on that property, you dig a shallow trench, you're going to get to water. And people who are interested in wetlands recognize what are called hydric soils. That means that there is specific evidence
 that the ground is either flooded all the time, which we would all recognize as a wetland, or at least part of the time. So we refer to this as a seasonal wetland. And a lot of you probably remember more than 10 years ago when we got into a squabble about the property which is part of Wilson Springs, now being managed as Wilson Springs Conservation Area.
 And the city at that time owned 289 acres in there that was going to be developed as a tech park. And that project fell through. And then the then mayor, Dan Cootie, appointed a committee of civic leaders and his political supporters, environmentalists. It was a pretty broad committee to study what the city should do with that property.
 And that committee came back not with a unanimous decision, but a near unanimous decision that the lower parts of that property should not be developed because they had wetland soils. And that what the city should do is protect that as a special area for plants and birds and so forth, butterflies and that sort of thing. For his own reasons, Mayor Coote, who is a friend of mine, decided to ignore that recommendation.
 and to go ahead and sell off a significant part of that property, and so it's now housing's being developed on it, much like I think will occur on this 59.66 acres. It'll be similar, I assume. Okay, my point in bringing this up is that I'm not familiar in this process if anybody's really looked at the seasonal wetlands issues here, and what our role is is...
 in in developing a city in which we Really don't take those things into account that we see except for an obvious Creek with an obvious application of the streamside ordinance that that we're not taking into account the fact that we're dealing with wetland soils and wetland plants and wetland birds and all kinds of wetland ecological issues that are important that we consider and I
 I lived here way too long to think that this council, or excuse me, I don't mean to personalize it like that, that any city council in Fayetteville during my lifetime would tell somebody who wanted to develop those 60 acres, sorry, you can't put your houses on there. Because if it's legal and lawful, you don't have any grounds to stand on, and I understand that. But I do think that as we continue to lose and give up wetlands that,
 the role that the council can play here, is to require that those losses be mitigated, that we take into account what's being lost when you authorize the development of that property, and that we take into account those losses and we try to make up for them somewhere else where it would be less of a burden on the property owners and where the public in general could gain something. So my point is that...
 The people who are going to be the big losers are not even represented here. And I know that it's not your business on a day-to-day activity to go around and worry about fish and plants and birds and all that sort of thing, and I completely respect that. But as a biologist, I've devoted my life to it. And I've spent a lot of time in that area, starting most intensively with the Wilson Springs business.
 The people that won't be speaking here about this rezoning of this property and allowing it to be completely developed will be like the Arkansas darters that are in Wilson Springs and that need the flows from property like this 59 acres. Graham's crayfish snake, it hadn't been seen in northwest Arkansas in 50 years before it was found in very similar habitats like this out at the new wastewater treatment plant site.
 and is probably on this property as well. Osage Burrowing Crayfish, I took one of the developers of that property and walked around that property with him several years ago for some other kind of a project that was planned there that I think fell through. And this is an endemic crayfish. It occurs in nine counties and it's all over that property.
 Crayfish frog, another one that had not been documented in our area and has now been found out there at Woolsey Wet Prairie. It's similar habitat, it's close by, they're probably in this property we're talking about.
 Now, instead of going through all this, I know you didn't come here for a biology lesson, and hey, I don't blame you a bit for that because you've got other stuff to do, but let me just read a short list. Smallmouth salamander, American golden plover, American bitterin, lees bitterin, sora, brewer's sparrow, henslow sparrow, caisson sparrow, bell's vireo, and plants like Indian grass and big bluestem.
 These are all creatures that we share this area with, and they're at risk with these kinds of developments. And my friend Aubrey Sheppard here, who may try to get up and razzle you for a few minutes, you know, talked me into coming down here tonight because I've given up on the thought that I'm not going to lay down in front of the bulldozers and I'm not going to have a hissy fit in front of the council about the development of this property. But you could...
 require some mitigation. And I don't have a good recommendation for that because I'm not an expert and I'm not a lawyer. And I don't know how exactly that would work. But before you permit more of this kind of habitat to be developed in that area, you could require that those losses be mitigated so that within the city of Fayetteville we would still have a lot of these creatures. But it's not going to happen if we just keep...
 keep turning our backs on all of these other creatures that live here with us. And I think, I think I'm done unless you want to ask me something. What questions do we have? Thank you. Well thank you for giving me a chance. All right. Come on up, Aubrey. It's very hard to apologize to O'Neil, because he's still got a memory he can name the species and things that I can't always think of. But, um,
 I and what he said about mitigation is important, but one thing I'd like to encourage is that the City Council engage in some change to ordinances that would require the Planning Department and engineering departments to go back to having a Corps of Engineers delineation of seasonal wetland and that's sort of gone by the wayside and
 several years and I'm afraid that partly there have been federal changes they changed the rules then they reinstated them they're probably going to be weakened again but the fact is that everything Joe's saying about it is is important and we can't replace that land you know we can't mitigate it in full sense and not and we won't have it you know in the city and I would ask that there be some way that we not
 If you rezone it all to eight houses per acre, there won't be any of those things on any of that land if it's required to go that way. If the best parts were protected, the ditches and actual still functioning streams, and take into account where the underground water is and where it's coming from and where it's going from there.
 before somebody develops it. And people can have a house that's adjacent to some beautiful grassland. They can have a house with a source of water that they could still pump out of the ground if they chose to, knowing there's a well there and it's safe from pollution. This is the Illinois River watershed, the Illinois River watershed.
 And it is something that our city has been sued over in the past, things that have polluted our city, our county, our state. And I hope that we'll get to care as much about it as we do Beaver Lake watershed, because we drink it. Thank you. Thank you, Albrecht. Anyone else? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes, sir. Has this been through the Environmental Action Committee?
 now that alan's the chair it was not on the last agenda can be added to the next one i would like to see that done and maybe if you know if there's no rush on this was this a staff initiated rezoning and you know maybe it's something we could even go so far as to split off the 33.38 acre parcel and go ahead and rezone that and then refer the balance of that in the critical areas to the environmental action committee to just have them take a look at it alan that's your
 committee would you it'll it will be next month before it meets again
 There's no rush on the rezoning of the property. I mean, this was a staff-initiated rezoning. There's not a current development proposal. Now would be a good time to do it. And I would support going ahead and moving forward with the 33.38 acres to RSF 8. We could just split that off. That's not in the critical area. And then take a better, closer look to this, the other parcel on, I guess that's 112. Okay.
 It has the sensitive area running through it. Okay. Yes, Chairman. Jeremy, do we know if the current landowner has an opinion? Would he support the study? Would he support development? Would he support leaving it as it is?
 I don't know. It's owned by a bank currently, so I'm not sure we've notified them of what staff has presented. Rezonings don't go to Environmental Concerns Committee. It's just unless the council sends it there, it's not part of our normal process, but certainly we'll take any advice or thoughts that they have, any consideration. There's no imminent plans that we're aware of to sell the balance of this property or to develop it at this time. Do you think the bank would support?
 some move by city council that may devalue their property or make it non development property. I don't think staff would support that I can't again speak for the property owner. The request that we have before you is essentially to allow for the property to
 have some sort of market bill your develop ability within the city whereas currently has no development or zoning rights and so what we have presented is simply a staff record staff recommendation on the zoning not necessarily the develop development would have to be reviewed under all of our current ordinances and Chris brown or city engineers is here to this he could discussing wetland requirements I'm not aware of any wetland changes that we've we've had in the last 5 to 10 years
 to not require certain standards to be met for Army Corps of Engineers mitigation or particularly where there's delineated wetlands in place. In fact, the city has undergone a very extensive review of that very thing on Clapper Creek Trail for months and months trying to place a boardwalk within a wetland area and having to do the same process. So we meet the same requirements as the developer would. Thank you. Okay.
 Mayor is it is it possible to break this office as? All the marsh has suggested and we maybe is that a question for the attorney? well, I just this was proposed by staff and so staff I think would have the right if they wanted to to Divide it into two separate They've actually recommended two different zoning's anyway. My only advice is that we need to zone it something that
 In the near future, now there's not been any push by the bank, but I am uneased at the fact that we have land in the city where we have just not at this point since the PCD has expired, don't allow any kind of development on it. I don't like to see that. We need to have some zoning on it. In the near future, that will allow at least some kind of development go on it, whatever zoning you believe is the most appropriate.
 from our perspective it would be fine to split it off or be fine to leave it all and go through at the same time it really doesn't matter to us it just it seems there hasn't really been any objection to the 33.38 acres going to RSF 8 seems like let's go ahead and get that done and then you know we have this the environmental action committee who's one of their
 Objectives is to review land use decisions in environmentally sensitive areas and it seems prudent to allow them the opportunity to review this issue and at least advise the council so that we can move forward with that information. What's the council members think from the ward? That's y'all's ward over in there.
 I haven't heard anything from several people who live in the area and I didn't want to move to the second reading at the last meeting because I usually do hear from those people in this area. So as far as constituent input, no, I haven't had any objections, but I'm happy to take it to the Environmental Action Committee at next month's meeting, but again, if that poses a problem with the delay, I'm happy to take it.
 We can have a session. The staff initiated, so I don't think— It doesn't sound like there's a debate. I mean, did it matter? I mean, I don't think it really makes a challenge, do you think? I haven't heard from any of the constituents, but if I were a stockholder in that bank, I'd be very—I'd feel very imposed upon to have the City Council come in and say, oh, this is wetland, you can't do anything with it. I mean, that takes away economic value. You know, I—my basic conservative viewpoint is if the City wants to keep that as wetland, let them buy it from the bank and do with it as you please.
 But I think it would be wrong for us to impose those standards on a private landowner, such as the bank. But I haven't heard from any of my constituents. Okay. Well, I would like to make a motion that we go ahead and split off the 33.3 acres and move forward with that rezoning. Second. With an RSF-8? Yes. Okay. We have a motion and a second.
 And if I can, I just want to clarify for Alderman Latour, what we're talking about isn't restricting the bank's rights. It's allowing them to do something. Right now they can't build anything on it. So this discussion will actually put value in their property. I think that's good. I think we're all on the same page on that. Okay. Good to clarify. Good. So what we have before us right now is 33.8 acres going to RSF. Yes. Yes. Okay. Any other comments on that?
 All right. I'm going to have any public comment on that section. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to take 33.8 acres of the whatever it is. Is that an amendment? It would have to be an amendment to the ordinance. Correct.
 So I don't see all that, but you have that. You drafted this ordinance, Jeremy, so that's okay with you? You can handle that? Correct. So the ordinance would be amended to remove the reference to the 59.66 acres of community services. Exhibit A would also be amended to remove that, and Exhibit B, which is a legal description, they're already separated, so we'd simply remove the community services one. Right. And then we'll just hold that for pending review by the Environmental Action Committee. All right.
 All right. So under which please call the row. Yes, yes, right, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay and now the 59 acres we will hold until the environmental action committee can review it or what actually that that's been amended out of the ordinance ordinance now only covers the 30. Okay, all right, so we can all right we're back to square one.
 So we're just going to leave it right here, right? Or can we go ahead and go to the second? Well, I think we're on the third reading of this particular. And it's been amended. Yes. Yes.
 It was now been amended to rezone 33.38 acres to RSF 8 residential single family units per acre as shown on the exhibits that Jeremy will prepare and that you've seen so you know what what land we're talking and then the 59 acres will worry about 59 acres later that's out of the ordinance okie doke so I'll have to create a new or just want to be sure I've got my head straight on this new ordinance new notification I'll be getting the cost of all right.
 Anyhow, are everybody good? Sandra, would you please call the roll? I need a motion and a second to go to the third reading. So moved. Okay, we need a motion. Second. Oh, we've got a third and final reading. Okay. Well, I thought we were on a third and final reading, but okay. All righty then. We were on the second reading. We need to go to the third and final. Okay. There we go. All right. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Lutcher. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 All right. Let's see if I can do it. All right. Here you go. An ordinance rezoning that property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 14-4883 for approximately 33.8 acres located at Highway 112 north of Trucker's Drive from RPZD 05-1796, residential planned zoning district Park West to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. Okay. Everybody good? All right.
 So now would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. All right. All right. Number four. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 14-4916 for approximately 0.32 acres located at 956 Ray Avenue from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre to NS Neighborhood Services.
 It's left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. I have a motion to say we can go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. In ordinance rezoning, I properly describe in rezoning petition RZN 14-4916 for approximately a third of an acre located at 956 Ray Avenue.
 From RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to neighborhood services. Okay, what staff have anything more on this? Nothing new on this, no sir. Okay, council got any questions on it? Any public comment on this? Was the applicant going to be here tonight? Well, I'm just fixing to ask that. Is the applicant here? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council.
 Move to go to the third reading. Second. Move motion is second to go to the, well, I thought we. We just did the third reading. We just did the third reading. Let me ask, Jeremy, you have talked to the applicant. She is in favor of this rezone. Okay, we're on the third and final reading. Anything else? Any final comments? All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Chena. Yes. All right, number five.
 An ordinance to amend the federal code by enacting 71.016 insurance requirements for motorized bicycles, motor scooters, and mopeds. I understand that that's yes, Alan. I'd like to make a motion to table that until April 7th, until after the University Transportation Committee has met and reported back to the Town and Gown Committee. Okay. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to table until April the 7th. Any comments on that discussion? All right. Who was the second?
 Justice. Thank you. Would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tenant. Yes. All right, under new business, number one, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4938 for approximately 2.5 acres located at the northwest corner of Cross and Main Streets.
 From an expired R.P.Z.D. Residential Plan Zoning District Markham Hill Cottages, R.P.Z.D. 09-3237 to R.S.F. 8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from an expired RPZD residential planned zoning district, Markham Hill College Cottages 09-3237 to RSF-8 residential single family, 8 units per acres, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arts are hereby amends official zoning map the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning Change provided in section 1. Yeah, this is another expired plan zoning district. It was originally approved in 2009 It was targeted by staff to bring forward to the council but an applicant Essentially beat us to that to the punch there So this proposal is to rezone that entire property that was originally called markham Hill cottage courts the
 project is located the site is located off of two and a half acres in the hillside hilltop overlay district north of main street there's a map on your on the screen behind me and also west of cross avenue on the south side of markham hill as i mentioned in 2009 the city council approved a residential plan zoning district with 44 dwelling units that's a density of 17 dwelling units per acre the previous zoning on the site was rmf 24 which is residential multifamily 24 units
 The applicant is requesting to rezone it back to that original zoning designation for future development plan. And in staff's opinion, that rezoning was compatible. If you'll look on the screen again, all the surrounding sites to the east, south and west are all currently zoned RMF24. To the north is zoned RSF4 as you start to go up onto Markham Hill itself.
 The City Plan 2030 Future Lane Use Plan designates this site as a city neighborhood area which does support a variety of densities in this area. And if you've traveled down Main or across any of these streets, you'll see that the area has started to develop with primarily small lot single family and some multi-family
 with a mixture of density in the area. The Planning Commission disagreed with staff's recommendation and the applicant's request. The RMF 24 zoning request was denied by the Planning Commission with a vote of 7-2. A second motion and vote was forwarded to you all to recommend the property in its entirety be rezoned to residential single-family, 8 units per acre. That also was a vote of 7-2. At this time, the applicant is disqualified.
 appealing to you all to continue the rezoning to rmf24 at this time and we're in favor of either one rmf24 we were certainly comfortable with making that recommendation rsfa we would be comfortable with as well given that this is a transitional nature of property
 The question was asked at the agenda session, I believe, about narrow streets and some of the infrastructure improvements that would be required as property develops in the area. So we always look at stormwater, tree preservation, the sidewalk connections in the area to serve users of the property, and any specific street improvements that would be impacted by this particular development.
 So staff is recommending approval of RMF24 or RSF8. Planning Commission obviously voted to recommend RSF8. Is the applicant here? Yes, Mayor. Good evening. My name is Mike Baumann. I live at 414 North Walnut. My wife and three children have lived in Fayetteville for the past five, six years. I've built over 250 homes in the surrounding area. I represent the developer that has this parcel under contract. And we're here tonight to go ahead and explain that the
 parcel that showed on the map there is surrounded by rmf 24 zoning and ask for that to be moved forward sure
 so you're asking for 24. right there's two things that influence the parcel that are relevant one is the hillside hilltop overlay district which obviously is very difficult as far as buildable area to build in and within and then this particular parcel has challenges from topography it's extraordinarily hilly and so because you have the confluence of two things the hhod as well as
 excuse me as well as the fact that there's quite a bit of topography on the parcel it makes it extraordinarily challenging to develop that's why the parcel has been there additionally if you look at the zoning map as jeremy said you'll see that everything in the surrounding area is rmf 24 and we're asking for the zoning now that it's expired pzd to go back to that okay what questions does that council have for mike or jeremy on this okay is there any other public comment on them
 Come on up, Tom. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Council. My name is Tom Brown, and I live at 2031 West Main Street. I own that house. That is right where Sang hits Main. I'm the first house past Sang. You can just see an outline, a footprint of the building there on the south side. You may also notice, I don't exactly know what that white line is.
 going down Main Street and going up the hill and over. But you may notice that that white line doesn't follow the platted road bed. When this paper plat West End addition was done, they platted roads in addition to platting lots. That white line is approximately the center line of the pavement, and the center line of that pavement takes up 20 feet of the corner lot and 15 feet of my lot.
 so that the pavement is actually on my lot. In this whole block that you see there between Sang and Cross and Main and Stone Street, those are all single-family owner-occupied homes, other than the empty lots where single-family units are being built on those lots as we speak. I'm hoping that we will keep it at RF8.
 i understand from the city attorney's comments at the planning meeting that there was a massive rezoning done without any particular planning or oversight back in the 70s that this rf um 24 designation is a result of that previous rezoning that was just
 done for no apparent real reason. If you look at what's actually happening in this neighborhood, it's right across the street to the north on Main, we have two duplexes right underneath that two-family designation, but those are on 100-foot-wide lots. They're double lots, so that the actual occupancy on the land is not greater than RFA, even though that's a duplex.
 Yes, it's true that Lewis Plaza is down here in the Southeast corner and there's a bunch of apartments down towards Ramey and mr. Lindsay. It's got these big apartments up on the hillside over here It's not feasible as far as I understand to build to that kind of density 24 and I'm hoping that you guys will at least Take a drive-by and take a look at what's actually going out on that street and what the neighborhoods doing with itself already Before we go to some massive
 increase in potential to 24 units per acre. That's all I got. Okay. Any questions for Tom on this? All right. Thank you, Tom. Appreciate you. Any other public comment on this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. Yes, come on in. Evening. My name is William Henson, and my brother and I are actually developers on this piece that we're discussing. And as Tom Brown has noted, we are personally responsible for all the development that is going in that area.
 so i do encourage the council to drive by that area in general and i say because we are long term we have a long history from family in fayetteville and we really want to help this area in general so we really are trying to get a higher density because of the topography that's already been explained it is very steep and lots of dirt work so i wanted to make sure that you all understand that what we are building in that area is ours
 And we want to continue doing that to help the city and that area grow along west of campus there. And I'd be happy to answer any questions if you gentlemen and ladies have any for us at this point in time. Any questions? Yes. You've been building homes out there? I'll give you my background in general. I've been a developer for a while. I've gone from Hong Kong, Los Angeles, and Fayetteville. Yes, we are developing across from Ramey Junior High, all that multifamily building. That is our PH. That is our property.
 Would you be willing to give us a tour of this area? Sure, absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Right back to the council. Do you all want to hold it here until we can have a tour of the property? Yes, Mayor, I would like to. Okay. We'll just hold it right here. All right, very good. All right, number two.
 In order submitting residential plan zoning district entitled R.P.Z.D. 07-2452 links at federal located on the north side of Weddington Drive and east of Rupert Road contain approximately 152.23 acres to repeal the phasing plan. Yes. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one.
 That the change to bring RPZD 07-2452 under the current PZD ordinance in order to repeal the originally developed development phasing plan is hereby approved. Section 2.
 That the development phasing of RPZD shall be subject to the standard requirements of Chapter 166 of Unified Development Code and Section 3 that the planned zoning district ordinance and official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for RPZD 07-2452 links at Fayetteville as passed and approved by the City Council on May 15, 2007 with Ordinance No. 5015 shall be modified with revisions as described in Sections 1 and 2 above.
 In 2007 the City Council rezoned this property it's called the links at Fayetteville it's in West Fayetteville near the intersection of Ruple and Whitington. The master plan is approved for a little over 1200 multifamily and single family dwelling units as well as non-residential commercial space. Phase one of the project was completed several years ago and contains around 600 multifamily dwelling units.
 To about to begin construction has been approved by the planning commission there are row homes along report wrote another phase of the multi family within that within the site. This particular request simply to change the phasing plan.
 with our all of our new plans on districts we were removed the requirement for a zoning to have a phasing plan thus an expiration date as we've talked about two or three occasions tonight already when these PCDs expire their zoning and development rights go away the new PCD ordinance allows for the zoning to remain a development plan can still expire but they have the entitlement rights with the zoning remaining intact and so
 This request is simply to follow the new plan zoning district ordinance in relationship to phasing. Planning Commission voted 8-0, and staff is certainly supportive of this request. Okay. We have the applicant. Are they here to talk about anything? Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy then on this? So, Jeremy, I have a question. Just to clarify, we're looking at the PZD.
 everything stays in place except facing so you'll have the same building layout that's so we're not changing anything and along Rupert Road there that is single family detached units on the North side there also as it goes around correct I just wanted to and then on the interiors where we have the multifamily are these going to be if I read this right these would be possibly sold as individual
 the property. So they would not be managed by the developer? It could. It depends. The way that the project along Ruppel Road that you referred to, the single family detached row or townhomes, it's being developed as lots so they certainly could be sold individually for owner occupancy or for rental. I had some questions. Someone asked me these questions. That's why I'm answering. Okay. We don't know if they intend to sell these lots.
 We don't know, but this has been approved already. We're just looking at phasing. Yes, that's correct. Thanks. Any other questions? Mayor, I should note that since the city council changed the planned zoning district ordinance last year and we've done away with the termination of them if they're not developed in time, you won't see these problems again as we go through these old PZDs that expired because the current
 PCD ordinance does not expire. It's a zoning change and so it remains the same until the City Council rezones Okay, all right any public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay
 Second we have a motion second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Yes. Yes An ordinance mending a residential plan zoning district entitled rpzd 7-24 52 links at Fayetteville located on the north side of Weddington Drive and east of Rufo Road containing approximately 152 and a quarter acres to repeal the phasing plan a
 We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Move motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeGere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnon. Yes. Hitty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In ordinance amending a residential plan zoning district entitled RPZD 07-2452, links at Fayetteville, located on the north side of Weddington Drive and east of Rupel Road, containing approximately 152 1⁄4 acres, to repeal the phasing plan.
 Any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay. Number three, an ordinance approving vacation 14-4933 submitted by Georgians and Associates property located southwest of Persimmon Street and Mountain Ranch Boulevard to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Kip?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following portions of the utility easement as shown on Exhibit A attached or to be made a part hereof.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached and labeled Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the county.
 And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions of approval and shall not be in effect until the conditions are met. Number one, any damage or relocation of existing utilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, existing easements to remain until the utilities are relocated into new easements at the owner's expense. Chairman. Chairman.
 The property contained a little over two acres of the southwest corner of Persimmon Street and Mountain Ranch Boulevard, again, west of Aval, west of I-49. The property's part of the Park Hill at Mountain Ranch residential subdivision, approved back in 2013. There's 13 single family dwellings proposed on this site. There's an existing utility easement in the front yards of all of the lots in the vicinity of the homes to be built within this development. The applicant is in process of moving forward with the project and requested vacation, is requesting a vacation of a portion of that utility easement.
 There were no objections from any of the franchise utilities or the city, and the Planning Commission and staff is recommending approval of 8-0 vote. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Seeing none, bring it back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Motion and second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kennett. Yes. An ordinance approving VAC 14-4933 submitted by Jorgensen & Associates for property located southwest of Persimmon Street and Mountain Ranch Boulevard to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Heddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay, number four, an ordinance approving vacation 14-35, 4935, submitted by Jordans & Associates, property located at the north end of Raven Lane to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following portions of the utility easement described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof,
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached and labeled Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the county. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition of approval. Any damage or relocation of existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Jeremy.
 The first one is in the Cobblestone subdivision east of Salem Road. During a previous phase of that neighborhood's development, city sewer was extended by the developer to the property line along the future extension that was planned of Raven Lane, which is Collector Street and the Master Street plan. The Raven Lane extension was realigned during one of the phases of Cobblestone design, and that existing sewer main and easement are no longer needed in the present location.
 The Planning Commission recommended approval 8-0 to vacate this easement with conditions noted in the ordinance, and staff is also supportive of the request. What questions do we have for Chairman on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Cloutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes.
 At an ordinance approving VAC 14-4935 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates for property located at the north end of Raven Lane to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement.
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. An ordinance approving VAC 14-4935 submitted by Jorgensen Associates for property located at the north end of Raven Lane to vacate a portion of an existing utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 mature yes long yes gray yes marsh yes canyon yes yes yes okay number five an ordinance proving vacation 14-4936 submitted by georgia's associates property located at 2269 north henbest drive to vacate an existing utility easement kit whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates and abandons the following utility easement described in Exhibit B, attached to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached and labeled as GBA, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the county and Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions of approval. Number 1, any damage or relocation of existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number 2, the existing gas line shall be relocated within a new utility easement prior to this vacation taking effect. Chairman.
 planned expansion to the adventure subaru dealership located off shallow and henvest the applicant is requesting a vacation of an existing 10-foot utility easement that is located directly west existing building the owner must relocate an existing gas line as part of this agreement if it is approved within that easement and plat a new easement for the relocated line the gas company has agreed to that vacation and the work that
 would be done in conjunction with the development, most likely. Planning Commission forwarded this item to you all with a vote of 8-0, and staff is also recommending approval. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 Okay. Bringing it back to the council. Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In order to approve VAC 14-4936, submitted by Jorgensen & Associates, for property located at 2269 North Henbest Drive, to vacate an existing utility easement.
 If we have a third and final reading. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Cassandra, would you please call the roll? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance approving VAC 14-4936, submitted by Jorgensen and Associates, for property located at 2269 North Henbest Drive, to vacate an existing utility easement. Is there any final comments from the council? No.
 Saunders, would you please call the roll? Mature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Jeanette. Yes.
 Okay, number six, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding in the authorized agreement with Instrument and Supply Incorporated of Hot Springs, Arkansas in the amount of $40,948 per split taxes for the purchase of two water booster pumps and one variable frequency drive for the South Mountain Water Pump Station. Whereas in 2012, the city replaced two of the four water booster pumps...
 and three of the four variable frequency drives at the South Mountain water pump station on 24th Street with equipment purchased from Instrument and Supply Incorporated. And whereas the remaining original pumps and variable frequency drive are obsolete and have exceeded their useful lives, and replacing them with the same equipment that was installed in 2012 will reduce warehouse and maintenance costs. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1
 That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes an agreement with Instruments and Supply Incorporated in the amount of $40,948 plus applicable taxes for the purchase of two water booster pumps and one variable frequency drive for the South Mountain Water Pump Station. Tim. Thank you.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. I think Mr. Williams summed it all up. A couple years ago we started on refurbishment of this South Mountain pumping station, which is located on 24th Street, just east of South School. It services the neighborhoods around the Fayetteville Country Club as well as the Country Club itself. The first two pumps that we put in were 75 horse pumps for adequate fire flow up into that region.
 And now we are going to, are requesting to supply two 30-horsepower pumps for the regular domestic drinking water. And the bid waiver states that we want like equipment in there of the Fairbase-Moores pumps with the Verifil VFD drives. And it will not increase our inventory is one thing. And additionally, the bid waiver is because
 Instrument in supply is the has the sole rights to distribute this random pump in Northwest, Arkansas Okay, what questions we have for Tim on this this went through water sewer solid waste and was approved to bring forward Any other questions? Comments, okay. Do we have any public comment on this? I?
 All right. I'll bring it back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize an agreement with Instrument and Supply Incorporated of Hot Springs, Arkansas in the amount of $40,948 plus Apple taxes for the purchase of two water booster pumps and one variable frequency drive for the South Mountain Water Pump Station.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize an agreement with Instrument Supply Incorporated of Hot Springs, Arkansas, in the amount of $40,948 plus actual taxes...
 for the purpose of two water booster pumps and one variable frequency drive for the South Mountain water pump station. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number seven, an ordinance to waive the requirements to form competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge installation, operation and maintenance, and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Federal for 2015, with the amount paid by the City not to exceed $61,721. Kip?
 Whereas since 1998, the City of Fayetteville has participated in a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for the operation and maintenance of three urban stream gauging stations to record data concerning rainfall and runoff at Nyakoska Creek in Gully Park, College Branch at State Highway 62, and Town Branch Tributary in Walker Park.
 Whereas the city desires to expand the current monitoring of rainfall and runoff to include water quality sampling Which will monitor the progress of measures developed to reduce pollutants and whereas the cost of the agreement to the city for 2015 it exceeds $20,000 would otherwise require competitive bidding unless the requirement is waived now therefore be it ordained by the City Council City of Federal Arkansas section 1 and
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes a joint funding agreement, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance, and made a part hereof between the City of Fayetteville and the U.S. Geological Survey for Stream Gauge Installation, Operation, and Maintenance,
 and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville for 2015 with the amount paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $61,721. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. As noted, this is to take three existing stream gauges that we have that have been maintained by the USGS. We've worked with them for many years.
 convert them to some water quality gauges. One will be located on Town Branch near the West Fork of the White River by the White River Baseball Park. The other is at a yet-to-be-determined location on the Illinois River side to do some water quality testing on the Illinois River Basin.
 And what these stations will do will give us, again, water quality information, baseline information that we can use as we go forward through the years of permitting, looking at stormwater quality, looking at the quality of our effluent coming out of our treatment plants.
 Those all work together, and so this helps us gather that data as we move forward both of those permitting processes we are proposing to share this cost between engineering and The water and sewer department through projects through both of those divisions And staff recommends approval of this this also went to the water and sewer committee and the committee recommended Three to zero for approval as well, okay? What questions we have Chris on this okay?
 What public comment do we have on this? Any seeing none, bring it back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutcher. Yes. Long. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Tenet. Yes. Long is back. Yes. That's only five votes. Yes. Okay, now we've got six.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the US Geological Survey for stream gauge installation operation and maintenance and water quality water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville for 2015 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred twenty one dollars. Okay, I
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge installation, operation, and maintenance.
 And water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville for 2015 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Let's not say water quality too many times. Any final comments from council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number eight, an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve a utility relocation agreement with the University of Arkansas for the relocation of copper and fiber optic cables necessary for the Highway 112 widening project between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue, with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $33,476. Ketler.
 Whereas the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department's utility accommodation policy provides for reimbursement to utility owners when utilities within private easements outside of the highway right-of-way must be relocated. And whereas the widening of Highway 112 between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue necessitated the relocation of utilities owned by the University of Arkansas, some of which are located in private easements and therefore qualify for reimbursement by the city.
 And whereas 80% of the qualifying relocation costs are covered by federal aid funding with the remainder to be paid by the City of Fayetteville. And whereas the University of Arkansas as owner and installer of the copper and fiber optic cables and as owner of the private easements in which the utilities will be relocated is the only appropriate party to relocate its utilities. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1
 At the city council the city of fayetteville-arxler hereby determines that the above stated facts constitute an exceptional situation in which competitive bidding is deemed Not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a utility relocation agreement with the University of Arkansas for the relocation of copper and fiber optic cables necessary for the Highway 112 widening project between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $33,476.50. Oh, I guess I didn't get the 50 cents in there.
 This is a federal aid project and it's a standard procedure with federal aid projects. The Highway Department is managing this project. They handle the federal aid funds. The city will pay our matching fund requirement, which is 20% of the cost of the project, to the Highway Department, and then they will reimburse the utilities, including the U of A. So this agreement is really agreeing to the amount, recognizing the cost share matching amount,
 And ultimately, we will pay this to the Highway Department, and it will be paid to the U of A through the Highway Department. What questions do we have? Chris on this. Everybody good? All right. Any public comment on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Mr. Chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes. Tenant? Yes.
 And nor is to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a utility relocation agreement with the University of Arkansas for the relocation of copper and fiber optic cables necessary for the Highway 112 widening project between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $33,476.50.
 Move to go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Moutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Sinnott. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a utility relocation agreement with the University of Arkansas for the
 for the relocation of copper and fiber optic cables necessary for the highway 112 widening project between razorback road and garland avenue with the amount to be paid by the city of fable not to exceed 33 476 dollars and 50 cents any final comments from the council on this senator would please call the roll mature yes long yes gray yes marsh yes yes petty yes yes
 Okay, number nine, an ordinance waives the requirements for formal competitive bidding to authorize a contract for educational, entertainment, and administrative services in 2015 to the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated in the amount of $250,000. Kip?
 Whereas the Walton Arts Center Council, Incorporated was jointly created by the City of Fayetteville and the University of Arkansas to bring cultural arts and entertainment to our citizens. And whereas the Walton Arts Center has long provided excellent cultural and fine arts performances and presentations for university staff and students and for the citizens of Fayetteville and the surrounding region.
 And whereas the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street in Fayetteville is uniquely situated and capable of providing unmatched arts education and cultural arts experiences and entertainment to Fayetteville citizens, and whereas the City of Fayetteville hereby desires to purchase such educational and entertainment services from the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street to be delivered at a reduced or no cost to Fayetteville citizens during 2015 and thereafter,
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 the city council the city of fable arcstar hereby determines that the unique experience capability and expertise of the walton arts center provides superior cultural and fine arts education and entertainment and reduced or no cause to fable citizens and provide space administrative help for fable citizen artists to make formal competitive bidding not feasible or practical therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive for these services and approves an education
 entertainment and administrative services contract with the Walton Arts Center Council Inc for 2015 in the amount of $250,000 which is automatically renewal three additional years and Authorizes mayor Jordan execute the contract attached to this ordinance and made a part hereof. Sure. Good evening this is a continuation of additional funding that the city provides for the Walton Arts Center and
 This is to help with programs that the Walton Arts Center has, such as learning programs that they put on for the Fayetteville High School and all the Fayetteville school system for over 7,300 students. A lot of these children would not even afford the option to be able to participate in these programs without this funding. It also helps with funding of local artists to help promote local artists in our area.
 and also provides free tickets on occasion to our visitors for things like Artist's Fair Festival and others. As you know, the implementation of the paid parking program in 2010
 The City Council and the Mayor adopted the paid parking program with the notion that the revenues from that program would be dedicated for the building of a new parking deck in the entertainment district. And as revenues...
 as we could see fit with the revenues that were brought in if we had enough over that then we would provide the additional 250 000 funding for these wonderful programs that are offered to our community and so we recommend that we grant this request from the walmart center okay what questions we have for sharon on this okay what public comment do we have on this okay i'll bring back to the council i move we go to the second reading second we have motion second to go the second
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of competitive bidding and authorize a contract for educational, entertainment, and administrative services in 2015 to the Walton Arts Center Council, Inc., in the amount of $250,000. Thank you.
 Motion we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Hang on. John, did you have something you wanted to say? Yes, I do have something I want to say. Okay. I love art. I think art is a great thing. I think these are all wonderful programs. But as a city, we have to take priorities into account. I had the opportunity to visit with the chief of police this week, this past week, and the fire chief. From those conversations, I've determined the following facts. Number one, safety.
 We have two full-time positions and one part-time position at the police department, which is unfunded and unfilled. We have two full-time positions on the fire department, which are unfunded and unfilled. I'm very concerned that these services that we provide to the people of Fayetteville are being underfunded, and we have team members that are not present on those teams because we have no money for them.
 I agree with funding the Walton Arts Center. I agree with spending some amount of money for the Walton Arts Center. But I would implore my colleagues on this council, let's fully fund the police and let's fully fund the fire department before we spend money on these wonderful things, because primarily our city has to be about the business of public safety.
 If Coach Bama put only nine players on that football team, on that football field, he might could still play a game. But he would be risking defeat by having two of his team members absent. The same can be said for our fire department and our police department. We need to fund those things. Those are fundamental services we provide to the city of Fayetteville.
 And I would ask that we fund police and fire first before we fund art. Art is important, I agree, but nothing is more important than police and fire protection for our people. Thank you. Okay. Paul, do you want to address the funding issues on this, where the funds come from, and if that could be a source that we could depend on year after year? Sure.
 Okay, the parking fund was created by the council therefore its purpose could in fact be changed by the council as Sharon already said we should remember that was a user fee created in the Dixon Street area for the purposes of providing parking and Promoting that area so that's why the fund was in fact established.
 Two, one thing we do need to remember is that the net receipts of parking are pledged against the bonds. That means operating expenses come off the gross receipts. What's left, we determine whether or not we can do any other funding with. This $250,000 is after parking.
 that net receipt. Therefore, it was clearly made to everybody at the point in time, including the Walton Arts Center, that if in fact we needed that to pay the bonds, this contract would not be renewed or we couldn't spend it any other place. Now going forward, what that means, if we add any staff, that's a perpetual expenditure going forward.
 Therefore, we have revenues that potentially could be there. However, we would have that expense going forward. So we could not rely on funding those positions, and we would have to look at other sources of funding. We talked about adding police at...
 budget time. At that point in time we discussed it and my position, which hasn't changed, was we did not have the available funding to do that at this point in time. We certainly are always looking at the needs of everyone, especially police and fire.
 so i guess those are the primary uh things i would like to say in this regard and i'll be happy to answer questions any questions from paul on this yes so bottom line this funding is not for police and fire and so we're looking at it as an excess to support the area around the deck and the deck that's in fact why the fund was established that's correct thank you go ahead
 Yes, John. Paul, who established this fund? By what authority? The City Council. City Council. So if the City Council established it, could the City Council amend it? The City Council could, certainly. So what is stopping our City Council now to say we're going to take part of that parking money and applying it to the Police and Fire Department to make those fully functional and fully operational and take whatever's remaining and give it to the Walden Arts Center?
 and maybe even additional funds later on. We as a city council created it, so we as a city council can change it, correct? That's correct. Now I'll respond to your saying what is. I'm sorry. Well, let me address also the uncertainty of future revenues. None of our crystal balls work very well. We don't know what will happen tomorrow, much less a year from now. But judging by the past...
 I think we can project from a business perspective, from an accounting perspective, if we've been generating X number of revenues from parking, from activities on Dixon Street and at the Arts Center, we can expect that those will probably be similar going forward. You know, I just can't buy the argument that, well, revenue streams are uncertain, well, all of life is uncertain.
 I may be run over by a Mack truck when I walk out the front door of this building. We don't know, but we have to plan for life, not for defeat, or we have to plan for victory, not for defeat. So I think that argument is weak at best, that our revenue stream is questionable in the future.
 I think as Fayetteville grows and develops and our entertainment district grows and develops, those revenues should be increasing along with that development. I would like to point out that at the current period of time, we do have the new parking deck under construction. Therefore, we do have spaces used right now for staging areas. So that parking revenue could, in fact, decrease.
 In the immediate future, also, our bond payments are going to increase. They're going to increase by about $100,000 the way the bond was structured by 2017. So those are factors to consider. Like I said, you're correct. We all go on forecasts. That's how I make my living. And we can't be certain. We did have them in the past. We can't be assured we would have them in the future. Hang on just a second. So, Council Member Latour, could I ask you a question? Are you making a motion then to not...
 Fund this amount but to shift the money from this funding source to the fire and police. Basically correct. Well, I mean, just asking you, is that a motion or something similar? I'll make that motion, yes. Is there a second to that? Okay. Mr. Mayor. Yes, Al. I would like to make a different motion. I'm fine with this contract. I think that that's what we committed to, but I don't like automatically renewing contracts.
 I'd like to, in Section 4, remove the sentence that says this contract shall automatically renew for up to three successive one-year periods. I'll make that a motion. I second it. Okay. Well, run that by me again, Alan.
 I'd like in section four, it says the initial term of this contract shall be one year from January 1st, 2015 to December 31st, 2015. And the second sentence is what I'd like to remove. This contract shall automatically renew for up to three successive one-year periods. I'd just like it to be brought back to the council every year. Okay. So that's an amendment to what we have here. And John, you seconded that, right? That's correct. Okay.
 Everybody got that? Okay. Well, all right. Is there any public comment on the amendment? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to amend it for basically one year, and then we will look at it again from year to year. Is that? Just from my perspective, it says both parties may terminate the contract. I just think that the council should look at it every year. It may be that we can give more in some years. It may be that the situation changes.
 Just with budgetary matters, I like to review it every year, and a quarter million dollars is a lot of money. Okay. All right. Any discussion on that? Yes. I'm waiting to hear from the Walton Arts Center counselor in public comment. I just want to confirm that you're acquiescing to the motion. My name is Tim Vogt. I'm the CFO of Walton Arts Center. And first of all, I'd like to say thank you for your consideration for this contract. Thank you.
 greatly benefits us as we try to do what we're intended to do in Fayetteville, and that's bring arts education to the community, to the region. So our preference, obviously, would be for the council to leave it as it is with a renewal for four or three consecutive years. My understanding is that
 Even with that in there that the council does have to approve it every year And so it does have to be reviewed and approved annually so our preference obviously would be or for its remain as it is, but certainly appreciate your your consideration and Please know that these funds are well spent. Okay, thank you any question for Tim on this. Yes, John Tim what is your annual operating budget?
 That's about $15 million. And where does that operating budget come from? How much from ticket sales? How much from private donations? Can you break it down for us? It's approximately half and half. Half earned income and half contributed income, money that's raised from public and private entities. And of the half that's contributed, does most of it come from individuals or most of it from corporations or foundations?
 I would say that the majority comes from corporate sponsorships and foundations, and a smaller portion comes from individuals. And is our $250,000, our quarter of a million, part of that corporate contribution? It's actually part of earned revenue. It's a contract. Okay. And can you name specific programs that you, or specific functions that you perform
 in order to earn that $250,000? Sure. We provide reduced ticket prices to the students of Fayetteville that attend our Colgate Classroom Series performances. We provide subsidy to help the Fayetteville School District with busing their students to and from the venue. We provide
 free arts and entertainment. As an example, during the Artisphere Festival, we have done what we call the trail mix, which is to place artists along the trail in certain areas in Fayetteville on a particular day, and that's free to the public to enjoy. It's widely accepted and enjoyed by many people. We also...
 work with our resident companies, our Theater Squared, the Symphony, and the Community Creative Center, and we help them with subsidized rent so they can use the space in Nadine Baum Studios and other facilities. We help them with marketing and box office services to help them sell tickets and to help the patrons when they attend the event. So those are just some of the things that we do.
 Tim, one of the positions that's unfunded at the police department is a dispatcher. When you're in a life-threatening situation, a fire in your home, a burglar breaking in, the dispatcher is the person who answers the other end of the phone in a 911 call. If that person is not on duty, no one's there to receive that call, and you'll be at your wits' end to know what to do because help won't be coming.
 Can you see the compelling nature of funding that position compared to what you've been talking about here, having artists along the trail to help children understand and appreciate art? I agree with you. Those are important functions. But none can be more important than that 911 dispatcher being there, those firemen, those firefighters being there on the job to protect our families.
 I'm not speaking against the Walden Arts Center. I'm speaking in favor of the firefighters and police of Fayetteville. I think we have room for both, and I'd just like to bring it to the council's attention, bring it to the public's attention, that we need to fund our police and firefighters. Thank you for your time. Mayor, may I make a comment quickly? Because I think it's extremely important when we make a statement that we're compromising a service, particularly a service in public safety,
 That's something that every single council member and every person in the administration executive staff knows is not only a priority, but one of the most important priorities, if not the top priority. I want to be clear that we are not meeting any dispatch staffing limit by having that position open, and we've had that position open for several years.
 And if it became an issue where we were unable to staff, we certainly would have added it in the budget as a requirement. In terms of our fire department, the positions that were frozen back in 2009 was a safety captain, which does inspections with our business licensing program and works for our fire marshal office as well as safety related items which are duties being currently handled by an existing staff member.
 and our firefighter, which is fully staffed, all of our stations have a minimum staffing level of 29, and we have three extra firefighters that go towards that. We are funding that department through overtime, and our plan in the future is, if we need to reduce that overtime number,
 We will bring that particular headcount back. In terms of patrol in our police department, we have all patrol positions responded to, so our ability to respond in a timely manner to calls that come in are not compromised by any staffing hold. This discussion came up with Alderman Long in the fourth quarter last year of the budget discussions because there was a discussion about adding an extra beat.
 to it based on call volumes. We are constantly looking at that trend, and the point I wanna make is that it is upon an administration to make sure that public safety is not compromised in our staffing levels. We don't feel that it was in November, we don't feel that it is today, and if we feel that it is going to be, we will be bringing a staffing plan to you.
 It is our top priority. So while we have a dispatch position open, we aren't having a seat that doesn't get filled answering calls if a citizen calls in, as well as responding to a fire or a police call. Chief Daymere, could I ask you a question, please? Tell us about the ISO rating. The ISO rating is the Insurance Services Office rating, and it rates a public—it gives each municipality a public protection—
 number level certification and in Fayetteville we have in Last year we pulled our ISO rating from a four up to a two so they judge the ability of the fire department and the infrastructure including communications and they grade each city on their ability to protect the public and the property in the city and we've improved that and
 and over the years and got recertified in 2014 to a number two rating up from a number four rating and everyone's insurance premium should go down as a result of that. So that would mean the highest rating would be one? Yes, sir. And the lowest rating would be? It's nine. And we're sitting at? Two. Okay. Okay.
 So you think the city's relatively safe? Yes, sir, I do. Chief Tabor, would you come up here, please? Mayor. Yes. May I ask Chief Dayringer a question? Sure. Chief Dayringer, if we were to fund these additional positions, would that enhance or detract from your ability to provide safety to the people of Fayetteville? Right now, we're filling those positions with overtime. So there are firefighters in those positions. At this point, it really wouldn't...
 It really wouldn't make a difference because none of those positions on the fire trucks are unfilled. That's a minimum staffing level and we fill them using overtime. And the safety captain, we're filling that using other staff, two staff personnel to fulfill those duties. So when you say we're filling them with overtime, other people are working those hours and instead of paying their normal salary, we're paying time and a half?
 or double yes sir we've done a study and to fill those positions using current incumbent employees and paying them time and a half as opposed to hiring a new person and paying them the benefits associated and the the startup cost for each firefighter it actually is more efficient to pay a current incumbent employee over time to fill that position
 So if we're filling it in a more economical way, why do we keep those positions open? Why do we say there are even positions there? At some point in the future, our coal volume is going up. It's going up naturally as our population increases. And so at some point, we may break over that efficiency mark, and it might become more expensive.
 It might become more cost effective to hire new employees than it is to use current employees
 on overtime. As the call volume increases, of course the workload, stress levels on the firefighters goes up and we might need to add those positions so I would rather not unfreeze them. I want them to stay on your radar screen for in the future when we need to make improvements to the system. And in addition, there'll fire companies and staff personnel to support the demand for service calls from the citizens.
 Okay. Chief Tabor, would you come up here, please? Hang on, Chief Tabor, in just a minute. Sir. How often do you all meet with me? Every Monday morning at 9 a.m. And we go through this to see if the city is safe. We talk about lots of things. Well, we talk about a lot of things. You know, I think basically we both give the mayor an update, what's happened throughout the week, any major personnel issues, and we talk about all these discussions that we're having right here tonight. That's right.
 And at any time that you thought that this city was unsafe, you would recommend to me to fill whatever positions you needed filled. Do you feel comfortable doing that with me? I absolutely feel comfortable doing that. Yes, sir, I do. Okay. Thank you. All right. I believe we have an amendment to do the funding. Yes. I'd just like to clarify—
 I appreciate that discussion. Very informative, but completely separate from what my amendment was. Yes, you're absolutely right. I should have overruled it. I was just too interested in listening to it. I thought we needed to do that. All right. We have an amendment.
 you have alan's men would you reread that kid of course well his amendment he would just strike the last words uh where it says it's automatically renewable so it'd only be for 2015. of course you would have to approve it in the budget anyway next year but you can certainly make remove that if you want to and the reason i'd like to see that done is you know when we're looking at the budget process instead of coming with a preset number
 I'd like to just look and see what we can do, because this is a great need. It's filling a great role in our community, and I don't think that we need to just say $250,000 a year is what we're giving. There could be some instances when we can give more. Okay. Any other discussion on that? Now we're voting on the amendment. All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. No. Marsh. No. Kenyon. No. Petty. No.
 Yes, it failed. Okay. Now we're back to the third We're voting about to vote on the third reading of we never did vote on that. We got off Session, okay We have a motion in the second go to the third and final reading and what we originally brought here still the same ordinance Yeah, so I would you please call the roll? No Yes
 Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In order to waive the requirements of competitive bidding and authorize a contract for educational, entertainment, and administrative services in 2015 to the Walton Arts Center Council, Inc., in the amount of $250,000. Okay. Yes. Final comments. Matthew? I'd just like to say something about priorities.
 You know, when you look at something like the Walton Arts Center and you look at art in the city, I don't want to rehash the many eloquent arguments that have been made by people way smarter than me on this about how integral arts are to our community. But I do want to maybe make a comparison with some other cities. When you look at an institution that is supposed to be, that is designed to be integral to a city like the Walton Arts Center, you compare it to their contemporaries.
 On average, these sorts of institutions receive on the order of 9% of their operating funds from state and local sources. The Walton Arts Center receives much less than that from state and local sources. So I think purely on a comparative analysis, it would behoove us if we want an efficient operation over there to work with our state partners to find them more. But more to the point about priorities.
 All around the tour. I appreciate your your comments. I take them at face value because I think you're raising questions of governance and You know the reason we have those frozen positions there is because it's in politic to remove them and the reason it's in Politic to remove them even though we know they're not necessary currently by our insurance ratings or our crime rates is because politicians everywhere
 raise the specter of safety so often to accomplish something. And I'm not saying you're doing that, but I think viewers at home might get the wrong idea if they're not going to watch this whole discussion. You know, we probably should remove them from being frozen and have a conversation about adding them when it's necessary to add them, but we don't because it's impolitic. And that makes it easy to confuse debates like this, which should just be about whether or not we give this money to the Walton Arts Center.
 or the services that they provide. So if anybody wants to bring forward a motion, I'd be happy to co-sponsor it to remove those positions until such time as the Chiefs recommend that we need them. But as it stands, I really think that's just a governance issue, and I think more to the point, the Walton Arts Center is certainly earning these proceeds, and I think that art should be a priority insofar as we're keeping the citizens safe.
 Yes, Sarah. I would just like to reiterate that these are coming from parking revenues. And some of the many reasons that people come to downtown in particular are to go to the Walton Arts Center. It is to go to Theater Squared. It is to go to the symphony. And as far as police services and keeping our city safe, I see engaging children in the arts as crime prevention.
 Because when you take children who maybe don't necessarily respond to the strict classroom environment and expose them to the arts and theater and music, then it gives them opportunities to envision constructive ways to grow up and new career paths and new ways of thinking. And it keeps them from engaging in more nefarious activities that could result in crime later.
 So, and also I just, you know, this is good for tourism. I think about this past weekend. My boyfriend and I, we wanted to see a Broadway show. So we went to New York City and we stayed at a hotel and we ate at restaurants and we shopped.
 And in our own way, the Walton Arts Center is doing that same thing for the city of Fayetteville because people in our region, they want to come and they want to see some of the great entertainment that we have at the Walton Arts Center. And they come here and they stay in our hotels, they eat meals in our restaurants, and they shop, and they generate sales tax revenue, which is good for our city. So I think that this is a great partnership that we have with the Walton Arts Center. I especially appreciate those Theater Squared tickets that they give to our employees as a benefit.
 and I look forward to having a continued partnership with them. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, John. I'd just like to point out on our strategy to fill these unfilled positions with overtime, those people could become ill, could become injured, and then who would take their place? I still think we're putting people at risk.
 And, Alderman Marsh, I agree. I want to do everything possible to increase tourism, to increase our economic development here in the city of Fayetteville. And those are very good points, very valid points. But again, it's just a priority difference. I want to make sure. I would rather overspend on police and fire protection. I would rather risk spending too much money there than spending too little in the arts. Thanks.
 I agree arts are a good thing. I agree we should help the Walden Arts Center, that I'd like to prioritize things. And I understand we have a two rating with the insurance companies, Mr. Mayor, and I appreciate that, and that speaks highly of our programs. But maybe we could have a one if we funded it properly. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? What's yours?
 I'm sorry, Mayor. What are we voting on? We're voting on whether we give them $250,000. Thank you. No. We're buying services from the Law and Order Center, Mayor. I'm sorry. I don't mean give. We're purchasing services. Latour votes no. Okay. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. All right. Number 10. Tenant?
 In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding, thank you, Kit, by the way, and authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from associated time and parking controls in the amount of $98,805.95 for the Spring Street parking deck. Chair? Thank you.
 Let me read the ordinance. Whereas associated time and parking controls is the city current supplier of digital parking equipment in their entertainment district and downtown business district, as well as the servers and infrastructure supporting those parking systems, and it is most cost-effective to use compatible equipment for the Spring Street parking deck. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks, I hereby determine that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of digital parking equipment from the associated time and parking controls in the amount of $98,805.95 for the Spring Street parking deck. Chair. As you know, the Spring Street parking deck is being constructed as we speak.
 And this is to allocate the part of the $100,000 that was already approved by Council for the equipment in that project. The associated time and parking was a vendor that we chose through competitive bidding process in 2005.
 We had three other vendors back then on the equipment that we use now, and that was in the downtown business district for our parking gates, the town center, municipal garage behind the Chancellor Hotel. Then in 2010, with the new parking program in the entertainment district,
 Again, we chose associated time since we already had the infrastructure and the server in place, but we did seek out three other companies for their input on what types of equipment and some preliminary pricing that they could provide us for the new program, and it didn't touch what we already had in place.
 Also, the University of Arkansas uses associated time. So it made sense to go with the same vendor, the same type of equipment that the students are already used to on campus. The equipment that we have already been using in the downtown area. And so at that time we waived competitive bidding so that we just added on to what we had. It was new equipment, better, more advanced technology than what we had in the business
 because we wanted more bells and whistles to offer. It is a whole different animal in the entertainment district. It's a lively night crew. The parking program in the downtown business district is only a quarter an hour, so that's why we still have the single head meters that don't take credit cards because we don't want to drive the price up.
 But with the new parking program, we had a lot of requests for different bells and whistles and more advanced technology. So Associated Time was able to provide that equipment. So what we're putting in the new deck is going to integrate with our current equipment. It looks the same. It's a little more advanced. It has nice big screens on it that we can put out public information that's interactive like you see at a gas station. Possibly Walton Art Center shows could be advertised on there.
 So the equipment is still integrated, will be integrated with what we currently have and will run on the same backbone that we have. Okay. What questions do we have for Sharon on this? Yes, sure. Sharon, on the trade-in allowance? Yes. I think it's important for people to know what is being used as the trade-in allowance and what that value is. Okay. When we first purchased the equipment, we had a lot of questions about the value of
 And I don't remember the exact amount for just that portion, but they are actually giving us the $22,000, which is going to buy back the equipment that we recently removed in the south lot, south of Grubbs, and the east lot, which is by Kingfish. That equipment was put in in 2010 with the gated equipment, and we've...
 already converted that to the numbered spaces and it's integrated with the rest of the system. So they bought that equipment back from us already on those two lots. So
 With this proposal they're buying that equipment back from us and giving us a credit toward that. Well I appreciate you making sure that that happens. I think it's very important when we have these things to, if we own equipment and we can get something for it that drives the overall price down. So I thank you very much for doing that. I think that's very important to mention that as well. That's a good point to bring up. Good question. Any other questions for Sharon? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. I have an order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from Associated Time and Parking Controls in the amount of $98,805.95 for the Spring Street parking deck.
 We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Hattie. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from Associated Time and Parking Controls in the amount of $98,805.95 for the Spring Street parking deck. Are there any final comments from the council on this?
 All right. Senator, would you please call the vote? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. All right. Number 11, an ordinance to waive the requirements of form of competitive bidding to authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from Associated Time and Parking Controls
 Any amount of $66,985.91 for the West Avenue parking lot kit. Whereas the Associated Time and Parking Controls is the city's current supplier of digital parking equipment in the Entertainment District and Downtown Business District, as well as the servers and infrastructure supporting those parking systems, and it is more cost-effective to use compatible equipment for the West Avenue parking lot. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 If the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding, and authorizes the purchase of digital parking equipment from associated time and parking controls in the amount of $66,985.91 for the West Avenue parking lot. Sure. This is exactly the same equipment we just spoke about.
 The West Avenue lot is the last lot in the entertainment district that still has gates. We've spoken with the Walton Arts Center about converting these as much success as we had with the South lot and the East lot, converting them to pay-by-space.
 The Walton Arts Center was very happy for us to do this lot as well. It will help with shows whenever they exit. We don't have the gates there to hinder the exit after the shows. We will still do event parking as we do now, so the gates will remain open.
 But most of the time, they'll just be in the up position. They will only be there just to help us out during event parking to help with traffic flow. Also, you can see on this one that we negotiated a credit back for the existing equipment. So we've got an additional credit of $13,975 for the equipment that's under the canopy right now.
 mayor i'd like to add one comment and that is that completing this lot will now make all parking in the entertainment district exactly the same methodology which was feedback from a customer service uh survey to try to get all the parking to function the same way about how your paper spaces and this will complete that project okay any questions for sharon mayor i do have a question i've had a couple of people talk about
 Why we're changing the Walton Arts Center lot, as it's called, which is really the West lot, right? Correct. Why we're changing that from the gate? Some people like that better, and you're saying that we want it uniform and the Walton Arts Center prefers it. Is that our explanation for why we're changing?
 Yes, the original equipment went in as a gated lot with the idea that we were going to develop a reservation system.
 for parking to be able to reserve a spot in the gated areas. And then that was replaced with event parking that the city and the Walton Arts Center redesigned that model and the event parking with one face-to-face interaction was much more useful and greeted much more friendly by our patrons. So they really appreciate us being there and helping them. So the necessity for having the gates there is really not what it was.
 We spend a lot of overtime repairing the gates. As I mentioned, we have a lively crew in the entertainment district. And so we have broken gates every night. And whether it's intentional or unintentional, it happens. And so we pay a lot of overtime to have our staff come in and repair them. So it makes more sense to listen to our patrons that say we want it all the same. It makes it more easy. We don't have to figure out where we're at.
 And so the equipment in this lot, again, will be integrated with all the other stations. So no matter where you're at in the entertainment district, you can pay for your spot, add time to your space, and use the pay-by-phone system. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? Okay. Do we have any public comment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes, ma'am. Yes. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 We have a motion to second. We'll go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from Associated Time and Parking Controls in the amount of $66,985.91 for the West Avenue parking lot.
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion second. Go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of digital parking equipment from Associated Time and Parking Controls in the amount of $66,985.91 for the West Avenue parking lot. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Heddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay, number 12, resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to offer for sale approximately 1.25 acres of city-owned real property on Old Wire Road near Gully Park. And we'll offer you a real deal. Go ahead. Connie Edmonston, Parks and Recreation Director.
 In the spring of 2014, City Council, you graciously approved for us to add 11 acres, to purchase 11 acres to add on to Gully Park. In the memo, we did describe that we would be coming back to you to request to sell the two lots that sit on it. According to City Ordinance 34.27, it outlines the procedure for selling city property. Okay.
 And in it, it states that City Council must pass a resolution authorizing the sale. City Council shall determine whether the property should be rezoned or appraised prior to its date. So tonight, I am requesting to sell the two single-family lots on it, which comprises about 1.2 acres.
 And also requesting that you accept the appraisal report that was performed by Reed and Associates back when we purchased the property in the spring. And also to accept the current zoning of RS4. And I know at the agenda session you requested some information about zoning. I hope you all received that from the city clerk's office. No? It was emailed, I think, to you. No? No.
 All right. What questions do we have for Connie? Yes, Al. I didn't receive anything regarding the zoning. If we received it, we sent it out, and it should have been added to the final pack. Did anyone see it? No. Well. All righty. I don't remember seeing anything. I'd like to see that before we vote on this, because I think it's better zoning for the property. Okay.
 I guess we will hold things up until we get all that in. Well, you can. I mean, you can always do rezoning. That's a legislative decision by the City Council, so it doesn't have to be done now. The ordinance does recommend that it be rezoned prior to being offered for sale.
 And this resolution does say that you will accept that you set the minimum bids at the 111,500 for one and 218,500 for the other. So if you want to wait for the actual zoning information before you do that, that's fine. That would be what your ordinance says. Okay. You don't want to wait? Yes. All right. We'll wait then.
 So I need a motion to table. So moved. Second. Motion is second to table. Date specific, next meeting. Next meeting. Next meeting. Okay. Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Lutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? I have one. Okay. Ordinance Review Committee meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. in room 326. Okay. Allen. We will have a Ward 4 meeting Monday, February the 23rd, 6 p.m., room 111.
 And you know we've had a lot of talk about our firefighters tonight and I'd like to remind everyone that the bill that Representative letting is sponsoring that we had in accordance with our resolution of Protecting firefighters is coming up before the House Committee tomorrow That's HB 1 2 7 4 at the Statehouse, which is the presumptive protections for our firefighters so that they're they can get the benefits as a result of their service
 I've already been on record down there being in support of it. So I can't speak for everyone else down there. Yes, Mark. It's the time of year for another quarter of nominations through the nominating committee, and there's a lot of openings, and if people are interested in a committee position, they have to the end of the month to get in their application. Okay. Okay.
 Anything else? Yes, kid. Mr. Mayor. I should note that at the next meeting City Council meeting I have a trial that day Which involves the quiet title action by Washington Regional? I have hopes that the trial will not last all day Might and if it does then Blake will be here to Be sit in my chair and answer any questions you all might have And the only other thing I have is that I noticed that this week at the Walton Arts Center is Camelot. So I
 Buy your tickets early. All right. Mayor, just to remind the public that due to the inclement weather that took place on Monday, the recycling and trash services are on a modified schedule this week. We're asking all citizens to put their recycling and trash out on their normal day, and we will get it serviced before the end of the week.
 we will be servicing the flatter clearer areas before we get to the more mountainous terrain areas but all service will be completed by weeks in okay anything else good work y'all we're jumping