here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. All right, the first order of business that we have tonight is the consent agenda.
 NUMBER ONE IS APPROVAL OF THE FEBRUARY 7, 2023 CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES. NUMBER TWO, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE SOUTH
 East Federal Community Center Incorporated, DBA, Friends of Yvonne, Richardson Community Center to clarify responsibilities of each entity. Number three, a resolution to authorize acceptance of an assistance to firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $84,081.81 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize a contract with MGT of American Consulting LLC pursuant to RFP 22-06 in the amount of $48,312.50 for the development of an updated cost allocation plan and user fee study and to approve project contingency in the amount of $4,832.00.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a 10-year water purchase agreement between the City of Federal and the City of Elkins to allow the City of Federal to furnish wholesale potable water to the City of Elkins and its residents. Number six, a resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $50,000 to Kim Patron,
 Privacy Fence Incorporated and JDE Foundations Incorporated for a water damage claim arising at 3263 North Makey Court. Number seven, a resolution to approve additional funding in the amount of $3,078.08.
 ASSOCIATED WITH THE DEMOLITION OF THE STRUCTURES LOCATED AT THE FORMER WEST END APARTMENTS AND TO APPROVE THE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. THIS IS 2019 DRAINS IMPROVEMENT BOND PROJECT. I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO ACCEPT THE CONSENT AGENDA AS READ. SO MOVED. SECOND. WE HAVE A MOTION AND A SECOND TO ACCEPT THE CONSENT AGENDA AS READ. KERRY, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL. BUNCH. YES. TURK. YES. BURTSBURG. YES. HARVEY.
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's go to unfinished business.
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 130.39 graffiti in the federal code to create a graffiti abatement program. At the February 7th, 2023 City Council meeting, the ordinance was tabled to the February 21st, 2023 City Council meeting. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. In order to amend Section 130.39, Graffiti and the Available Code to create a graffiti abatement program. OK, Theresa. Thank you, Mayor.
 So we've tabled this for quite a few times in order to give the Arts Council an opportunity to weigh in on some of their recommendations. And so they provided those recommendations, I think, Wednesday night or Thursday morning. I incorporated most of those recommendations into the amended ordinance that was sent out, I think, by Blake on Friday. There are a lot of components to it, so I wanted you all to have fun.
 plenty of time to take a look at that and review it. I was unaware that our city attorneys had some issues with some of the information until this morning.
 I guess what I would like to do is to give it another try. I'd like to keep trying to work on this until we can get some kind of ordinance that allows the city to easily remove graffiti when it's a problem. I don't know what that amendment would be right now, but that's kind of at least my perspective at the moment.
 But I'm happy to entertain any questions or have more discussion about this because clearly we have a graffiti problem around our city. It's not just down there at the train station, it's actually all over the city. So clearly whatever we have in place right now is not effective enough and I'm really open to any recommendations or ideas to make so that we can keep our city beautiful, prosperous
 and also allow graffiti artists to thrive in a space that is designated for them. Okay. What questions does the council have for Teresa? Teresa, and I'm sorry if we've covered this before and I've just forgotten. How many complaints or how, I'm just curious how this came up as kind of an issue to come forward with. How many complaints were coming out about graffiti that led us to try to update this ordinance?
 I don't know how many complaints there are.
 At this point, we have that C-Click fix application, but I don't know how many complaints we have. But on a very, very prominent part of our trail and right by Dixon Street, we have a huge problem. I think that I showed you the photos, maybe it's been a while ago, maybe six or eight weeks ago, and that area has just gotten worse. It's not being addressed.
 And I think we spend lots and lots and lots of money on trails, and yet we have not been able to keep them clean and insightful. Sure. I think it might be good to revise the pictures again. It was six or eight weeks ago, and it's getting worse because I haven't seen this part of the trail. And it might be good to try and compile what,
 Sarah asked for with you know to get some idea about how many complaints we get but if we're looking you know mainly along the trail I think it would be good to be able to see you know what we're talking about exactly I think the challenge is going to be is defining you know as the city attorney said what's
 what's offensive because what's offensive to me might not be offensive to somebody else. And I think we have to lean heavily on getting some guidance from city attorney on how do we define that? How do we get around that? Because that, that is the hurdle that, that we have to be able to jump and I'm not sure how to do it. Absolutely. There's a problem. I just don't know how to, I don't know really how to fix it without, without the
 some guidance in that regard. Have we looked at what other cities have done? Our first draft was what Springdale had enacted. And so that may be something that we fall back on and reconsider. But that's where we started from. Council Member Jones. Chief, do you have some data on the complaints on graffiti that might help? Well, I think I always try to have some data, Mayor. Okay.
 I probably didn't do a very good job of getting the most recent data, but I can tell you, obviously, you've heard me talk about 2020 and 2021 and the crime and the increase after the pandemic. I think that was also relevant with graffiti. I think we had about 31 reported graffiti cases in 2021, and then that went down to eight in 2022. Yeah.
 It's ebbs and flows. That's how it works with graffiti. It's kind of the broken windows theory that you've heard about. Crime leads to crime, graffiti leads to graffiti. So sometimes if you don't get that cleaned up, some that'll cause other grief, speedy to occur. What the data that I'm sharing with you this evening doesn't capture all of the data. And what I mean by that is we're talking about the parks and trails. A lot of times the parks department will call us, we'll go out.
 Not necessarily, it's an incident report that's made on that particular case. And so, you know, the data is probably skewed a little bit on the low number. But like I said, it's ebbs and flows. So 31 in 2021 and then 8 in 2022. So any questions for the chief on anything? Just wanted to bring him up in the community. Okay.
 Not a question, I don't have a question on it. But I did want to clarify since we're kind of on this topic. So the Art Council did review and research quite a few cities ordinances and did a really, Emily Miller did an excellent report on kind of what's kind of been done historically. There's an eight page document. I think it might have been included in the packet. I haven't looked for it to see.
 Um, but the main thing that we found is essentially what the chief says, graffiti there is going to cause more graffiti to come. But we, what we did want to strike and what we were in our recommendation is that graffiti itself doesn't cause crime. Um, but it does...
 attract more graffiti. So in the sense of like, you know, if graffiti causing shoplifting or something like that, there's no there's no connection there. So we wanted to clean that up. But it is it is important to get it removed quickly.
 And we learned that. And so there's a full report, like I said, in the packet. But we definitely wanted to remove that it makes other people do other things that aren't graffiti related. So I wanted to clarify that.
 Mayor, if I may add to Chief Reynolds' data, I think when his staff looked into this in November of last year, code enforcement did something similar and at that time they had three and there's been an additional two since then, including the former Arcega's at the depot location. What part of Fayetteville do you see the majority of the graffiti?
 That's a good question. I don't know that it's any specific area of Fayetteville. You know, we do see it around the Dixon Street area. Probably the entertainment district is the most often place that's tagged. Outside of that, I'd say it's pretty sporadic. But I would say if you're asking me to pinpoint one location, I would say our entertainment district. Okay. Have we been receiving any information or any complaints from business owners?
 You know, when it's their business typically, they'll call us to lodge the complaint. Obviously when it's something that is, I don't know.
 It's like Councilmember Berna said, you know, some things are offensive to some people and some things aren't as offensive. You know, we've seen marijuana leaves that have been tagged down on Dixon Street. They may not be as offensive as, say, something that would be, and I know it's difficult, but something that is deemed as like hate speech, maybe some type of epithet or something along those lines that is obviously more offensive. So those are the type of complaints that we generally get.
 And that's the concern. Like Councilmember Harvey mentioned, graffiti tends to lend to more graffiti that's occurring. And some of that may not be offensive, but sometimes it can be offensive to the masses. And that's when we get the most calls, i.e., the situation that happened on MLK.
 a couple of years ago that got painted over. And then of course the Bank of America building that was down there on the MK that was unsightly became somewhat of an eyesore to folks that were coming into Fayetteville. And then those of you that can remember as far back to the old city hospital, the old mountain inn,
 Those were struggles for us as well as a police department and as a city. We just really didn't have a mechanism to clean those types of situations up. Most often than not, it's a private property owner, like you mentioned, a business owner on Dixon Street that has graffiti. They'll call us and they'll get it removed as quick as possible. And then for us, when it's on our city property, we get it removed as quick as possible. But so situations where you can't find the property owner or the property owners not being cooperative. And so those are the three best examples that I can cite.
 Anything else? Chief? Kid, do you have a, oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, sir. Kid, do you have a recommendation, some guidance to guide us through that? Obviously, graffiti has been a problem in Fayetteville, small problem, but a real problem since at least 1994 when we first, or before the City Council first passed the graffiti
 And this takes basically the same definition of graffiti as was used there, but it adds some more stuff. Now, I certainly think that speed of removing the graffiti is a very important factor, and we control that on public property. So, you know, we have the right to go in there immediately and paint over it or whatever. You know, it does require personnel and employee time to do that, but we control our own public property.
 Now, when it comes to private property, this is one thing that I was somewhat concerned about. I think certainly that it would not be bad for the city council to explicitly authorize the city to be able to expand city funds to clean up graffiti that the property owner does not want there. And that's in the definition of graffiti. If the property owner wants it there, it's not graffiti.
 I think that that would be a good thing to have from the City Council, that explicit authority to spend public funds because this is a public project and that's not that way to avoid somebody saying, well, you're helping out this business owner. Instead, no, we're saying we're helping out the city by removing the graffiti. So that would not be bad on this.
 The hate speech problem and its problem in definition is because the Supreme Court of the United States has gone very absolutist in their First Amendment protections and what they require before the government can act, especially in a punitive manner, like going onto somebody's property without their permission.
 However, for the city's own policies, we certainly can have policies that would put an emphasis, and I bet we do, on removing hate speech off of public property.
 And also if the private property owner would like to have it removed and the city council authorizes that kind of expenditure, then that would make a lot of sense too. If you can say things like hate speech and base things on it, if it's not punitive or it's not regulatory, you're just talking about yourself and say that we will remove that in a more expeditious manner.
 if we have permission to do it, either on public property, we have permission already from ourselves, or if the private property owner gives us express permission. So I think there are ways we can probably amend this to keep it constitutional and yet still have an effect, especially in the speed of removal, probably, of the graffiti. But that's counting on the property owner to give us permission. And I have real concerns
 about doing it without their permission. I did try to put some due process protections in there, but I didn't satisfy myself. And so I'm sorry I came out so late on this, and I apologize to Council Member Turk not talking with her first about this today.
 But suddenly it came up, yeah, this is a third and final reading and some action is probably going to be taken tonight. And I've just got to point out to the council my concerns about this one. And so that's why I sent the memo out about that. This is a continuing problem, not only here, but many other places.
 But I will say that just because some cities might have certain graffiti ordinances that have not been challenged yet, doesn't mean that they're necessarily correct. For example, about six and a half years ago, after this big case out of the Supreme Court that made big changes to the First Amendment rights,
 uh after that came out i realized that panhandling was pretty much made legal by the supreme court that there's nothing that the cities can do to regulate it any regulation would be viewed under a test that's virtually impossible for cities to meet several panhandling statutes were
 that cities had passed, that the lower courts had said had been very reasonable, well done, fair to both sides, had to be vacated by those courts after that Supreme Court decision came out. So I had to tell that to the city council and said, you know, your panhandling statutes that we've had forever, we can't have them anymore.
 And that was not very popular. I will say the city council was brave enough to do what I'd asked, and they repealed them. And then for the next few months, there was a lot of those news reports about how Rogers still had those panhandling statutes, and how come we can't get rid of the panhandlers on the corners, and they can? Well, then what happened is that they got sued by the ACLU, and they lost.
 And so yes, they're in the same boat we are, but we acknowledged it and did the right thing. And that's what I think we need to do here. We don't need to necessarily look at other cities ordinances, we need to make sure that ours are correct and will withstand the challenge if they get challenged.
 So I do think a tabling would be good. And let me do a little more work with Teresa. I'm sorry I didn't do more with this prior to and express more clearly my reservations on that. We always try to do what you all want. We want to pass the ordinances as you would like and have the effect that you want. But I also have to be very careful if it doesn't really.
 Look good to me, look like it might be unconstitutional, might be illegal. I've got to say that. But I do have some more ideas, Teresa, about this. We originally based it on the Springdale one and kind of got a little false sense of security. Well, they have theirs and they haven't been sued yet. But the more we examined it under the constitutional law, the more concerns I had. And I felt like I just had to express them to you before we passed something that I was unsure of.
 Okay, anything else out of the council? I just, I had a question, just if, I didn't know if we had looked at the financial impact possibly. I know that we're working with maybe code compliance on removal from our city-owned areas, but I'm curious, like what kind of man hours and manpower that is. And then in the event that we move forward, when we're going to work on, you know,
 private areas as well. I'm curious if we've looked and explored what kind of labor and what kind of financial outlay that might be for the city. So I believe that Springdale spent $12,000 last year and that's the best number that we have
 It's hard to anticipate, you know, if we were going to go on private property, what kind of issue we would have relative to theirs. We, Blake and I thought that it was probably they had many more issues than we did, so we anticipated the cost, or at least I anticipated the cost to be less. Okay. Anything else? We'll take some public comment. I think we should.
 uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber we'll be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom we'll speak after that who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber okay do we have anybody on zoom no one has their hand raised mayor
 Okay, then I will bring it back to the council. I assume we're going to table. Who would like to table this? I'd like to keep working on this and work with Kit to maybe find some way to strengthen our ordinances. And I think the time was helpful, even though we could have talked about it earlier in terms of that part being unconstitutional, the original ordinance.
 offering of it because now with Art Council having time to look at it we can weigh their input as well with Teresa's so I think it was good time that was spent and hopefully you can review the Art Council recommendations as well as Teresa's original draft
 I WOULD JUST LIKE TO ADD THANK YOU TO COUNCILMEMBER TURK FOR WORKING ON THIS COMPLEX ISSUE BECAUSE IT SEEMS VERY COMPLEX. SO THANK YOU FOR WORKING ON THIS. IT'S TAKING A LOT OF TIME. BUT THANK YOU. THANK YOU SO MUCH.
 I would suggest probably two months for us to be looking at this and revising something that we feel like will be legal and pass constitutional muster and still hopefully have some impact to get graffiti removed more quickly. Karen, do you have a time for the meetings? I mean, what is two months from today? That would be April 18th. April 18th.
 Teresa is that amenable to you to table till the 18th of April? Okay I need a motion or something. I make a motion then that we table till the 18th of April. Second. I have a motion and a second to table this item till the 18th of April. Karen would you please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Kurtzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 More. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Burnham. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number two. A resolution to approve an update to the federal active transportation plan. This was at the February 7, 2023 City Council meeting. This item was tabled until February 21, 2023. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Since our last meeting, our communications meeting
 has done a social media and push as well as some website updates. And very happy to say that we've had over 7,000 social media impressions and 200 website visits with 80% of those coming from social media. And the average visit time on the website
 and viewing the plan as over four and a half minutes, which is encouraging. So the people are engaging with and reading the plan. And we have had some contacts from Arkansas Traveler and UATB with the local University of Arkansas media, running some stories about the plan update. And so that's a brief summary of our outreach and public engagement since our last meeting.
 That concludes my update. Okay. Do we have any questions for Dane? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Then everyone has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic?
 Okay. You have anyone on Zoom? Yes, Mayor. David Criswell is here. Go ahead. Mr. Criswell, you'll have to unmute. There you go. Hi. My name is David Criswell. I live at 2437 West Honey Lane in Ward 4. I'm the Vice Chair of the Active Transportation Advisory Committee. Moving about outside is good for everyone. Scientifically proven to benefit both the body and the mind.
 But the plan that you guys have considered isn't about exercise, recreation, and it's not just about trails. This active transportation plan provides goals and steps of action that fosters a community where everyone can safely move around outside of a car. The plan was designed to benefit people, people who vary in age, ability, and transportation choice.
 As the City continues to guide Fayetteville's growth in a way that allows more people to live near amenities like parks, schools, groceries, and places of work, we must ensure that an active transportation network is planned and fully supported to connect us to these places and to each other. So on behalf of the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, I recommend adoption of this plan.
 Thank you. Anyone else? No one else, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have and what action would the council like to take? I move we approve the resolution. Second. I move motion to second to approve the resolution.
 Any final comments from the council? I just want to thank the team for giving us more time when I was requested that. And I think we got a lot of good feedback. So thank you all for pushing it out there for more. And then I'll be following up with a few comments that I received on social media. That's something I can kind of just summarize for you in an email. But overall, we're really glad that you took the time to help us get the word out.
 And I would simply say that I am going to support this wholeheartedly. I'm pleased to do so. I just know that on occasion we have commercial uses in what were previously residential structures along our roads.
 And I think of the Fayetteville Gift House as an example, a 30 year business that'll be impacted when we construct our trail. I'm gonna support the construction of that because one entity shouldn't hold up a benefit for the whole community. But I would just say if there is some way that we can accommodate deliveries or whatever creatively, that that would be on us to try to explore that. But short of that,
 The plan is a good plan. Staff have worked hard, and I'm pleased to support it wholeheartedly. Thank you. Sarah. I do believe that with that particular business that they're, I think, you know, my impression was that staff really did try to work something out with them on that, Mike. But thank you for your comments. I appreciate that. Anything else?
 All right, Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to new business. Number one, resolution to honor African-American trailblazers of federal. DeAndre, you and...
 Council Member Harvey brought this forward. Absolutely. We all know that February is Black History Month. And many times in celebrating Black History Month, we look out of our community. We look nationally. Well, it is good to know that here in Fayetteville, we're able to look inwardly. And tonight, we have four trailblazers here.
 and were standing on their shoulders. And I appreciate the work of the Black Heritage Preservation Commission wanting to do this and proudly recognize the following trailblazers who made history and continue to contribute to our community's progress toward representation, inclusion, and diversity.
 The Commission is grateful for their contributions to the City of Fayetteville and looks forward to honoring them in our work in the years to come, as well as expanding this list of recognition to honor additional trailblazers in our community. And tonight, Mayor Jordan and the City Council, we have a Certificate of Recognition for
 from the Fayetteville Black Heritage Preservation Commission to present to Tony Johnson, Frank Johnson, Jesse Bryant, and Dr. John L. Colbert. So did you have anything? Yes. I'm just going to be following DeAndre's lead when we're ready to present the certificates. But I'm so honored to be co-sponsoring this. OK.
 Is there any questions from the council or DeAndre or Sonja? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this? Yes.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Council. My name is Caleb Turner. I'm one of the commissioners on the Black Heritage Preservation Commission. I live in Ward 4 here in Fayetteville. I will reiterate what Councilmember Jones shared and also share a bit about these four individuals, these four trailblazers we're hoping to recognize today.
 personally and as a representative of the commission, I think it's especially important that we recognize these people in our community, but especially those who are contributing to public service in our community in this way.
 Tony Johnson was the first African American chief of the Fayetteville Fire Department. Johnson served the city for four years as fire chief before retiring in 2009, a period during which the department experienced growth, including adding three stations to its roster of fire stations in the city of Fayetteville.
 Frank Johnson was the first African American chief of the Fayetteville Police Department. He served 25 years with the department, first serving as a patrolman, then on to sergeant, lieutenant, captain and chief, where he spent two years leading the department. Jesse Bryant is a lifelong resident of Fayetteville and was the first African American to be elected to the Washington County Quorum Court.
 She was active in all facets of community service and also founded the Northwest Arkansas Free Health Center, known today as Welcome Health. And then Dr. John Colbert is the superintendent of Fayetteville School District and the first African-American to serve the school district in this capacity. And as you know, he is the namesake of the new middle school on Ruppel Road set to open in August 2023. So I'll reiterate the name.
 DESIRE OF THE COMMISSION TO RECOGNIZE THESE PEOPLE, TO GROW THAT LIST IN FUTURE YEARS, AND ESPECIALLY RECOGNIZE THOSE WHO HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE CITY'S SERVICE AND DEMONSTRATED WHAT PUBLIC SERVICE AND INCLUSION AND REPRESENTATION LOOKS LIKE IN THE CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE. SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND CONSIDERATION. AND BY THE WAY, I THINK WE HAVE TWO IN ATTENDANCE HERE TONIGHT THAT I HOPE WE CAN SNAP A PICTURE WITH WHEN THIS IS ALL SAID AND DONE. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THIS?
 You know, Frank's a pretty big guy, and I think he was wondering what the heck I was going to get up here and say, so he tried to wrangle me back there. But, you know, Mike Reynolds, Chief of Police, I just want to talk about the impact that Frank had on not only me, but on the Fayetteville Police Department. So, as a young officer back in July of 1993, Frank was a training sergeant, and that's who...
 pretty much took me under his wing at that particular time. And then certainly as my career evolved, he had a great impact on me and also the deputy chief who's sitting back there as well. Frank, he was the one that brought in racial sensitivity training, African-American history training that started in 1996, 1997, and it's continued throughout this day. And that's certainly attributed to Chief Johnson.
 You know, he is he's been a mentor to me. Certainly, he continues to help me with challenges that I face both professionally and personally. But I can promise you that he is more than just the first American or first African-American police chief for Fayetteville. He is the one that helped us establish the foundation.
 of the Fayetteville Police Department and the culture, the professionalism that we continue to maintain today. Without Frank, you know, we would not be the Fayetteville Police Department. And I certainly can't think of anyone that's more worthy of this award. So thank you very much. Thank you, Chief. Who else would like to address us in the chamber?
 I'm just speaking in support of Dr. John L. Colbert. I am a member of the Fayetteville School District, and he is definitely a trailblazer. He not only advocates for education, but particularly the students. And so he wants what's best for the students. Every staff member knows that whatever ideas we come with, we have to prove that it's what's best for the students, and the students are our future. So he has set a legacy that will last forever.
 for ever and I am so proud of that to be a part of the organization that he's with. Thank you. Anyone else like to address this? We have on Zoom is no one has their hand raised. Mayor. Okay. We're going to bring it back to the council and what discussion with the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Mayor, I know Superintendent
 John L. Colbert is very shy, but I wonder if he might give us a little history of his service, because I know he was a principal for my children in Jefferson School a long time ago and worked with him for a long time. I'd like to hear something from you, John L., if you would be willing enough to give us something. John L. Good evening, Mayor, and to the City Council. Five minutes. Oh, can I do it in five minutes?
 Thank you very much, Councilman Jones, for the recognition. I appreciate that very much. Fifty years ago, this young man came to Fayetteville, Arkansas, as a student at the university. After graduating three years in 1976, I had to make a decision. Should I go to Dallas or stay in the great city of Fayetteville, Arkansas?
 And I chose to stay in Fayetteville. Best decision I made as an educator. Started teaching as a special ed teacher, did that for four years. And then my coworkers saw what I was doing with those students. They said, we need him part of our team. And so they made me part of their team and I became the sixth grade teacher. And then during that time, had different people observing me. I was an unofficial assistant principal, without pay that is.
 But I was proud that my principal allowed me to do that, which allowed me to set the stage, become a principal.
 And then I was hired as the principal in Fort Smith, actually my first principalship because of it. The lady by the name of Pat Jackson was doing her internship and she had an open, she said, hey John, I have an open. I said, do I want to go to Fort Smith? I love Fayetteville. So that was a great opportunity for me to go ahead and get the experience to become a principal. But, and then three years later, an opening came up at Jefferson Elementary. I tell you, I spent,
 eight great years there as the principal. And then the dream came true to open a brand new school, Holcomb Elementary. I did that and stayed there for 13 years. And then the superintendent asked me to become a associate superintendent for elementary ed. Did that for four years. And then after that became associate superintendent for support services for the district. And then, you know, I had the opportunity to become a
 The superintendent, I told the board members, hey, you're getting someone who's done it all. Teachers, social superintendent and all, and worked with every department custodians and all. So it was a proud moment for me. And the fact that, as Ms. Huff said, I based my career bond, we are going to do what is best for all student. And all student means all.
 And so the legacy has been there where I've tried to make sure I made a difference in the lives of all students. And at the same time, making a difference in the lives of teachers, because I know if I didn't make them happy, they couldn't do a good job of making sure my kids were learning in the classroom. So therefore, I had to make sure I had the best and took care of them as well. Not only was the fact that I was involved with the district, but I also was involved in the community.
 I was one of the first who helped to bring Yvonne Richardson Center on board. Was the president and organizer and all that. Then in Northwest Arkansas, the NAACP. Was the president and founder, then founder of the Northwest Arkansas MLK Council. Because I wanted to do those things because I love Fayetteville. I wanted to give back because Fayetteville had given so much to me as an educator here in Fayetteville. You know, 47 years
 as an educator, I've given back to this community and education. And then of course, I feel honored that my board has decided to name a school in my honor, John L. Colbert Middle School.
 That's an honor. And hopefully it's just a testament to what I believe in making sure, as I said earlier, that we educate all kids, regardless of color, sex orientation, whatever, because we believe that every kid has a desire to learn. It's my honor. Thank you all very much for the opportunity. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, John L. Okay. Do we have a motion and a second yet? Okay.
 And if we approve the resolution second Okay, any final comments from the council? Yes, it's I'm not sure when we should but we do have Certificates of recognition that we would like to present to Dr. Colbert, mr. Frank Johnson Jesse Bryant and mr. Tony Johnson. So Mayor Jordan, I'm not sure when we would do that if but I I
 we do have that prepared to present tonight okay well all right then why don't we just go ahead and give the certificates to those that are here tonight and then we'll see that anyone that's not here will get a certificate or i'll have another presentation another time okay so i've got frank and i've got john f
 Correct? Yes. Yes. Yes here tonight here tonight. You like to you all are the sponsors of the we need it Yes, and we would also like to ask chief Reynolds if he would present Mr.. Frank Johnson his certificate There should we pass the resolution? We're already breaking out the trophies I mean I
 Yes, Kerr, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Okay. And, Mayor Jordan, if you would make this one .
 I'm sorry, Dr. Dunn will look at it. We are truly honored to recognize you tonight for your service in our community past, oh, I'm sorry, for your service in our community past, present, and future. And on behalf of Mayor Jordan and the Fayetteville City Council and the Fayetteville Black Heritage
 Preservation Commission, we present you the certificate of recognition and Sonya is going
 whereas Dr. John L. Colbert capped his lengthy, honorable, and effective service in the Fayetteville School District as a principal assistant superintendent and associate superintendent by becoming the first African-American Fayetteville School District superintendent. Okay, and the certificate reads, John L. Colbert is a federal trail watcher.
 recognizing your excellent and valuable service to federal and its citizens, and for being a role model, servant leader, and trailblazer in our journey toward equality, justice, and respect for the worth of all persons. Federal Black Peer Reservation Commission. Congratulations. Thank you.
 And then whereas Chief of Police Frank Johnson served as the first African-American Fayetteville Police Chief for the last two years of his 25 years of dedicated and honorable service in the Fayetteville Police Department.
 The certificate reads, this acknowledges that Frank Johnson is a Fayetteville Trailblazer, recognizing your excellent and valuable service to Fayetteville and its citizens for being a role model, a servant leader, and trailblazer in our journey towards equality, justice, and respect for the worth of all persons. This is from the Fayetteville Black Heritage Preservation Commission. Congratulations.
 Thank you.
 So just thinking about Mike's words earlier, all sins are forgiven, all those multiple tantrums I had when I was a chief and things like that. I can thank you, counsel, your honor, for the recognition. It means a lot to me as I get older and Fayetteville Police Department becomes a little further in the distance, but it's still close to my heart.
 I can tell you this, although I have a bias, you have a good police department. I think sometimes we're breathing our own air in this little bubble we have and get a little intoxicated by it, but the fact that the citizens, as a matter of their support, the new police department, and you look at your chief and your deputy chief, they're
 Mike was one of the most pragmatic cops that I remember when I was both administratively and as an investigator, as a street cop, and same thing with Jamie. So you're in very, very good hands now in the future if you have a good police department. So thank you. Congratulations, Frank. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So with the other two recipients, I'll just read. Jesse Bryant was elected and served honorably and efficiently as the first African-American Washington County Quorum Court Justice of the Peace and founded the Northwest Arkansas Free Health Clinic. Yes.
 Fire, whereas Fire Chief Tony Johnson honorably served as the first African American Fayetteville Fire Chief for four, we already did Tony. Wait. No, we haven't done Tony. Fire Chief Tony Johnson honorably served as the first African American Fayetteville Fire Chief for four years until retiring in 2009. And hopefully we can do this in person again.
 Thank you all so much. Thank you, DeAndre, for including me in this very important recognition. DeAndre, thank you. You and Sandra for bringing the story. Okay. That's a good start to new business. Boy, that was worth a ride, wasn't it? All right. It's good. All right. Number two. I'm going to go back to the last one.
 study a resolution to study possibly amend and affirm support of the amended city plan 2040 sir Thank You mayor
 And so because city council members can't speak to each other because of the FOIA laws, I brought this resolution forward because many of us are new to council, myself included, since the last adoption of the city plan. And I know a lot of thought has gone into this and a lot of hard work from city staff who've done a great job with this plan. And so I just wanted to...
 go through a few things, specifically my focus talking tonight around housing, but not taking out that transportation and all of the other things that are a part of the master plan. It's hundreds of pages, not to simplify it, but I wanted to bring a few things to light with my fellow city council members just to start a discussion and to see where fellow city council members were filling the current city goals
 about some of the areas that were looked at back in 2019, and then to just kind of talk about next steps and hoping that we can have support to go ahead and adopt this master plan to go forward. And so I don't know if the IT department, if you have my slides so the public can see those as a guide, thank you.
 So I'll just move right into it and kind of frame the climate. We said it on January 3rd, we're in a housing crisis that was further pressured because of the pandemic in 2020 when HARC released data on the calls for the need of service
 By far, the biggest need is in housing. And this continued lack of increased housing stock for needed populations has been expressed in our master plan and in regional publications around the area. In our master plan, we called out that we should actively participate and engage in regional dialogues and initiatives as outlined in the report that was done by the Northwest Arkansas Council.
 and to really focus on identifying gaps in affordability throughout the city and setting numerical targets for housing that is affordable to a variety of households.
 And then further, with the Northwest Arkansas Council, when they focused on Fayetteville, and I think this is a few years old at this time, but one of the things that you'll see when you look at the income levels, 0 to 30% AMI, there are 36 housing stock for every 100 folks that are the extremely low-income households.
 And then 0 to 50% AMI, there's 67 per 100 very low income households. And so we have extremely low housing stock for some of our most vulnerable parts of our community. And so the plan that we set out in Fayetteville puts us on a path to success with some of the plan goals that we have planned.
 place. If you move, yeah thank you, to this slide. You know we have six goals that we've identified in the master plan and in 2019 when the council revisited this the highlighted areas goal one we will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority encouraging the development or redevelopment of vacant, mostly vacant and underdeveloped property as well as
 Number six, we will create opportunities for attainable housing. Those are some of the areas that were identified and have had strides made, especially on one. We know that there was an infill matrix, a scoring matrix that was come up with to better evaluate whenever items come before planning to be able to come towards city council with more information in our decision making and made some strides on that.
 Moving on to the next slide, I wanted to just bring up some things with my fellow city council members about possible places that we can build on from the previous and current work that has been being done on goal one and goal six. And I know I'm kind of going quickly because I know we have a lot on the agenda tonight and I do want to open this up to be able to discuss and talk together tonight. Sorry for my eye chart putting this all in one slide.
 But when I really looked at goal one and goal six, and again, the master plan is quite expansive, but looking at those short-term goals from 2019 to 2025, some things that really stuck out to me that I really would love for my fellow council members to think about and get your feedback is
 really with urgency looking at determining the feasibility of a local housing trust fund and land bank. That's something regionally that's being talked about a lot and there's some best practices out there nationally. Identify gaps in affordability throughout the city and setting numerical targets so we can
 Kind of set a measure going forward of where we want to go. We've got work to do and there's a lot to be done, but being able to kind of set some targets for the strides that we want to make going forward. Promoting long-term affordability by targeting the use of public funds for the lowest income households.
 developing a community education campaign. One of the things I think that I found the most whenever I've been talking amongst the community, I've had the privilege working at a nonprofit that I've done a lot of community cookouts over the last several years. I've done direct pandemic relief work. And then in campaigning, you get the privilege for three or four months to really be immersed with your community and really find,
 I think oftentimes communities are not quite understanding of the dire need for housing for certain parts of our population. And so having a communications plan to really identify where there's that loss of existing affordable housing and the struggling cost of just being able to make ends meet for parts of our community can really be addressed if we can get attainable housing in place for parts of our community.
 And then moving on to identify opportunities for the creation of affordable housing on publicly owned land. You know, we have a lot of moving parts of the city and with the police department vacating their building, leaving lots around the city. There's an opportunity in those areas to discuss and focus on those areas.
 And then the long-term one that I really landed on in the master plan was creating a complete neighborhood or street corridor plan every other year. And this is already underway, and many of these goals are in process or being discussed. But knowing that hand-in-hand, finding the neighborhood fits for affordable housing projects being so important and vital in the core parts of our community.
 And then moving out of 1 and 6, I don't know, again, I'm open to hearing what you've run into about goal 2 with SPRAWL. But I get a lot of different definitions depending on who I talk to with SPRAWL. And so I feel like it's kind of like appropriate infill and don't...
 Don't know if a deeper dive around goal two might be something that would be beneficial for all of us when we're looking at projects. One of the things that I really see as I've been really in-depth following Washington County is that Washington County is right at the border of Fayetteville and some of our places.
 planning area and they currently don't have extensive zoning requirements. Many of their projects when they come forward, they have to come forward under a CEP process. And so because we might have annexation in the future because the
 determinations that are made there put pressures on the services that Fayetteville provides both with emergency response and water. I just wonder if that's something that we might want to talk about considering as we go forward with this plan.
 And so really, I want to open the floor about possible next steps about, you know, should we workshop on possible areas of focus in some of these areas I brought up tonight? Should we, you know, ask for an update from staff with their recommendations for next steps with their expertise?
 And then also, I really want to extend the opportunity tonight to adopt the master plan as it stands today because it is a well thought out plan. And then focusing on areas that we can identify in the future to work on amending. And I'll open the floor up.
 what would the council comments count yes um so i have a question for um jonathan that addresses some of the things that sarah brought up now when we're when we're talking about development in the county where do we we have this boundary where things have to kind of meet what uh our standards are in fayetteville that's that may not that's kind of in the county is that right
 That's correct. We call it the planning area. That's how it's described in state statute. As it's applied to Fayetteville and in our ordinances, it can extend as far as two miles outside the city limits unless we abut another city, in which case we meet halfway in between, or sometimes with cities like Farmington or Elkins, it's immediately adjacent.
 When it comes to that two miles of planning area, there's a bifurcation, a split in our ordinance as to how our codes apply. When you're within one mile of the city limits, our subdivision standards apply. And I think that's a relic of when most of the development that was anticipated to occur there was residential subdivisions.
 Our tree preservation ordinances, our drainage criteria, things of that nature do not apply our building design standards. So we're not typically looking at land use. Zoning authority lies with the county as council member Moore noted. Once you get beyond that one mile envelope, staff has the ability to review projects, but it's held to the county standards at that point. So that's kind of a quick and easy way to remember it. And hopefully that's clear.
 Thank you. And also, would you kind of explain what the mayor's box is also? Certainly. The mayor may be more adept at that, but I'll give it my best shot. I think it was envisioned before I began working with the city, but it originally came out of the concept of a ring road or a circle of arterial roads that would surround the interior part of the city.
 Broadly, it's RuPaul on the west side, Crossover on the east side, varying between I think it's Joyce and Van Asch to the north and MLK to the south. The intent of that was to be, that would be something of a informal urban growth boundary and beyond which the city would look at very differently when projects came through, whether it's for cost shares or rezonings in that nature. Is that fair, Mayor?
 Yes, you have heard that a few times, I know. Thank you very much. What else do we have? Other discussion? Well, I would just ask to entertain with my fellow council members then to a recommendation to approve the master plan the way it sits today then, together. Okay. Is the master plan not already approved? Yeah, it is.
 I don't think we'll, I don't think we would need to approve it. It's about 268 pages long. Yeah, I don't think we'll need another motion. I do want to thank Council Member Moore for highlighting these very incredibly important parts of our plan because with it being so extensive, you know, it's hard to figure out where to start with some things. And I think the pandemic has really highlighted housing.
 I know for me it has. I live at near 15th Street in Ward 1, and I have seen nothing but an incredible increase in people experiencing homelessness. Now, how is that related to our housing plan? Well, it's just very expensive now to live in Fayetteville, so what are we going to do about it? We can choose to...
 you know, know that we have the plan on the shelf or we can get to work. So I think I think we're all willing here to get to work. And I think it's good to have a little recommitment about it, especially after the pandemic. So I'm willing to to get to work, figure out some policy decisions and policy things that we need to do to take
 more action on it and I'm gonna take some time to look back at your slides and figure out what what that looks like So I appreciate you bringing it forward Thank you
 So Council Member Moore, I'm just wondering if the better procedural way to handle this is to have something like a resolution of intent to give city staff more direction, even though it's already in the 2040 master plan, but maybe a direction to really either hire a consultant or dive a little deeper in this concept. So just a suggestion. Sure.
 go ahead deandre uh sarah thank you for for doing this putting this together it's a lot of work and as council member harvey as she stated and i think we all know this housing is a problem and we are experiencing a housing crisis and i i believe that in order to address any crisis we have to be proactive and it's not just a favorable problem but we're here in fayetteville and so that's why
 that's why we're concerned. I am committing myself as well, because I'm hearing the concerns about the housing crisis and the homelessness and individuals have come to me and they told me that,
 Their rent started out maybe at $800 a month, and now it's $1,500 a month. And so, again, there is a problem. And I do appreciate your time and your energy and your commitment. So I'm willing to support whatever I can to address this issue.
 And thank you for putting in the work. It's a lot of work to put in and it's going to take some time, but I'm certain that we can accomplish this together. Do you want to make some public comment or?
 i just wanted to make one more comment real briefly so there was an article on the paper on sunday about average rent comparing the different cities and relatively speaking it looked like fayetteville's was much lower than the other areas but we definitely have a housing crisis there's no doubt about that and and as everybody has said it's not just locally it's nationally so i look forward to seeing what you might bring forward in the future and i also
 I also want to shine the light on something that we rarely talk about in working people and those who are. It's it's one conversation. We've had the conversation about homelessness, but then there are individuals in Fayetteville who are working the working poor. And that's right. I just believe that what I'm hoping is.
 that we can start working towards something to address that, because I'm hearing it all the time. Individuals are struggling. They don't have enough money to pay for eggs and rent. Thank God that we're doing things like daycare, but the working poor, that's a real big problem here in Fayetteville. And so we talk a lot about homelessness, but we're talking,
 I don't think we've had the conversation around helping those who are working. Yes, I'd like to really thank you for doing this, Sarah. And I like the idea of, you know, I don't know what, you know, Teresa suggested maybe we look at maybe at some point, maybe a consultant, but I like the idea of trying to figure out
 And I hate to say, let's put staff on this because there's always so many things we ask of staff. But I do like the idea of if we all work on it a little bit more, then we have some breakout sessions where we really sit down and talk about it. Because right now, we're just talking about ideas that we might like to do. I mean, I for myself don't have enough ideas.
 background right now to make solid decisions like, you know, okay, here's what we ought to do. Here's what I want to suggest and why. But I do think that if we can look at, from my perspective, if we can look at, you know, building types of housing across the city that will meet the needs of different, you know, citizens in different areas and, you know, I'm all in favor of that. So thank you.
 Okay, you want to have a public comment? Okay, everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this issue in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. Okay.
 I will give you my two cents worth. I think this is the time that we need to discuss retreat for the city council. We all gather together for a couple of days, express our ideas. We've been talking about that as staff. Susan and I have been talking about that. We have an individual that was, what was her name, Susan?
 Ruth? Ruth Whitney previously did a retreat for the then sitting city council. I'm not sure who, Sarah, you were here. You were here. Theresa, I'm not sure if you were here. I was brand new. Yeah, we spent two days together. I was brand new, didn't know, still don't know what I'm talking about, but I learned a lot there. But I was asked what my priorities were and, you know, I'm like, well, I don't really know. So it was very helpful for me.
 I thought it was great. I really liked it. And we all just, you know, we were together, we expressed our ideas, and then we hammered out in about two days some direction in which we wanted to go. Stuff you're interested in, stuff you're not interested in. And she, Ruth, met with each one of you individually to find out, you know, what your passion lies in. And then she brought that to the meeting and we,
 Anybody remember that, Sarah? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I thought it was really a great learning experience for me because I got in and everybody else had been on council a lot, much longer and kind of, you know, I was, that was springtime. 2017. Yeah. I was just, I'd just gotten on council and it was really very good experience, I thought.
 felt like i connected more with the council members and we've already you know we've been through a couple of years where some of the council members started out doing zoom meetings mainly you know so we we didn't really get that you know that that interaction that personal interaction i think it's great ideal mayor do you all want me to pursue that that would be amazing yes
 Yes, I think that'd be great. I know you're going to pass this, but I mean, do you want me to pursue a retreat where you can express your ideas? Of course, we will. Well, you know, we talked about a whole bunch of things. We talked about the 2040 plan. We talked about how we'd like to see the city grow. You know, of course, my passion was.
 living wage and I believe you solve a lot of problems with paying people a decent living wage. That's my, that's my, I agree with what DeAndre said, but that was stuff that was expressed during that two-day retreat. And there was a lot of good ideas. We, a lot of the goals that you saw on the 2040 came out of that. Um, so,
 I think it'll work. That was my third one, I think. I'd been...
 And since I was on the council and to answer council member burns question I think what mayor was talking about is overall. Yes, and and because city plan 2040, you know Yeah, it does address our entire overall Strategies and goals what the then sitting council looked at there was an old strategic plan that was
 really just had been on the shelf. And at the same time, the city plan 2040 was beginning to come forward to be amended. But we wanted to revisit the old plan
 strategic plan and it turned out through the process of the retreat and the program area you all at the time came up with the same types of goals that city plan 2040 had so it was just sort of a coincidental arrival at an affirmation and then moving forward but it was comprehensive Scott.
 Mike? Do you want a show of hands if we're interested in the retreat? I noticed by the head nods that you seem interested. If nothing else, we can express ourselves in a meeting, as we all times do. I volunteer to provide liquid refreshments for this retreat. I think my two cents worth would be is that...
 you know, no one's against affordable housing. I mean, let's just start there. It's a tremendously challenging topic because the entire nation is wrestling with it. Housing is produced by the
 challenging ways to intervene and modify what the market would normally be prepared to do. So there is no low hanging fruit left. It's all been grasped. So I think it's certainly a topic worthy of any time and attention that we can give it because that's just how challenging it is.
 And the fact that the whole nation is wrestling with it means that competition for labor and materials is going to be severe. So the one thing that we have is dirt. And so maximizing our community's return on the land that we have would be well worth our attention.
 I love the idea of a retreat. I think we're blessed with remarkably fortunate relationships with this group, but certainly getting to know one another better and exploring what our interests are is more than worth the investment of time. So thank you, Sarah. Stacy was at the last one, wasn't he? He was. And you'll get to be there two more solid days. I'm sure he's thrilled with that. Okay, so
 we'll pass the resolution with the caveat of do we need to put an amendment on the thing I don't think so if you look at what the City Council is
 binding themselves to by passing this resolution that says the city council hereby expresses its desire for further study okay and possibly to amend so that's what the resolution i think that's really why sarah brought this is so the council would be able to take a second look and uh you know where you want to look and how broad you want to look that's up to the council because we covered a lot of things it wasn't just exactly housing it was a very a lot of stuff
 you know job training and and uh growth and how we want to grow or we talked about sprog during that meeting and it's good because everybody gets to express themselves so having said all that i mean if we approve the resolution okay we need a second did we get a second care okay we need a second second i'll sick all righty we have a motion second to pass now the resolution i would ask for final comments but we've pretty much
 done all the talking we're probably going to do. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berner? Yes. All right. Thank you all. On we go.
 And at this point, I think that it's appropriate for Council Member Turk to move to remove from the table her resolution, which is being shown right now as 3C3 from the table. And then once she has done that, the city council has approved that, then we can get on to discussing it. So you want to do that before I read that?
 Right, because even though it's shown on the agenda, it's really on the table, so we ought to bring it off the table before you read it. Okay. Well, go ahead and do that. I move that I remove item C3 from the agenda. Second. Second.
 and you're actually removing it from the table and placing it on the agenda i'm sorry removing it from the table and placing it on the agenda that's the emotion it was it was tabled indefinitely so it takes the motion to remove from the table in order to discuss it i got it karen would you please call me bro oh you need it was the second budge
 Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Barnum? Yes. And just to throw another wrinkle in, Mayor, I think that Council Member Chirk has agreed to an amendment to what you had on the table. We're not going to read it? And so if you want to read, if you want to do that still, then there needs to be a motion to approve.
 to amend uh to the resolution that has been supplied to the city council for this meeting that i haven't read go ahead okay um i'd like to move to amend um the resolution to the one that's been provided to the city council that's on the table second okay care which police called roe
 Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Irving? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Okay. Now you're up. All right. I'm on. Number three, a resolution to allow nonprofit organizations operating in federal to submit an application for reimbursement of lost revenue funds.
 from American Rescue Plan Act funds from March 15, 2020 to March 2, 2021 and to approve a budget amendment of $1 million for these qualified applications. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I mentioned some of these details last week at agenda session. Originally, the original resolution was to provide a million dollars for non-profits to apply from March 3rd, 2020 to March 2nd, 2021.
 This new resolution defines it a little bit more closely than that. The dates are still the same, March 3rd, 2020 to March 2nd, 2021. Those nonprofits have to operate within the city of Fayetteville. The second section gives a time period of February 27th.
 through March 10th, 2023. So a very narrow window, a two week window when nonprofits can apply for those funds. They also have to document all of their losses when they submit the application. So there can't be a back and forth between staff. Everything has to be complete and well-documented when they submit the application.
 And then also there is a limit on the amount they can apply for to $100,000. So this would be what we're requesting through this resolution is a $1 million set aside from ARPA funds so that nonprofits that suffered losses back in 2020 and 2021 can apply up to $100,000 per reimbursement. And I'm happy to take any questions. Okay, what questions do we have, Patrice, on this?
 Teresa, what if a nonprofit has already received funding initially? Can they apply for this round as well?
 If they've received funding from the city already, it was during a different time period. So if they document these losses for March 3rd, 2020 to March 2nd, 2021, they can apply under this resolution. There can't be any double dipping, but this is for covering a different period. They'll have to have the same kind of evidence that they already have before that.
 Steve has looked at before and in fact some of these amendments that Councilmember Turk has suggested was suggested originally from Steve Dodson and Paul Becker to try to make sure that this was going to be appropriate and legal under our
 I wanted to say thank you for bringing this forward because I think the initial right after COVID is when many nonprofits experienced some tremendous losses, especially if you think about in places where you had to have people in person to pay and participate when you had to shut your doors. That had huge impact. So I think this is going to help organizations. I just had a question about the hundred thousand. I have a feeling it's because.
 We only have so much and you want it to maybe go to a lot of organizations. But I honestly do not know how much the losses were maybe for the nonprofits during that time. I don't know if you have a handle on it. I'm just kind of curious about the $100,000 because we did hear from some nonprofits not too long ago that were with like the arts community and were expressing some desire for ARPA funds. And so just kind of curious about the $100,000. Yeah.
 That was kind of a staff consideration. I know the first round when we did this, so I can't remember exactly how many applications they got, but a huge amount. That was consideration for staff time because we've been struggling with this for quite a while.
 I do recognize that there may be some groups that have suffered greater losses than that, but there's probably a whole lot of other nonprofits, small nonprofits that I would hope would be able to apply and be compensated with the proper documentation. So to spread the money a little bit wider. So that was also kind of part of the consideration. Thank you.
 And the resolution says first come, first served. So if you didn't have a limit, you might have somebody apply, take the entire million, and nobody else gets anything. Steven, do you have any input on how it was arrived at? No.
 I think now I'm at. Yes, Mayor. I think what Council Member Chirk said, it was just that we had some concerns that one organization or two might show up and take the whole amount right off the bat when we were kind of looking or council was to kind of spread this out. Scott. Help me a little bit for someone that wasn't on the council at the time. Why did we have?
 the initial window that we had? Was it government required? Was there a reason we didn't open it up for the full two year?
 Yes, Council Member Burnett. When we first opened this program, we were, I think, the second in the country that I saw who was actually running this type of program. And so we needed to reach out to Treasury, discuss this with our auditors, try to find what the appropriate timeframe was where we could, in fact, run this. At the time, the interim final rules supported a timeframe of 2021 to 2022, and so that's what we did. Okay, and...
 i'm struggling a little bit not not that there's a need there's no question about that but i struggle a little bit with we've got i understand it's a different bucket of money but i struggle a little bit that we've got non-profits that are have requested funds that we haven't given them an answer and now we're opening the window up and giving away potentially a million dollars to someone that's going to apply
 you know within the next week and we've got people that have applied and haven't got an answer so i struggle a little bit with that so kind of kind of helped me through that because i want to support this uh but i struggle that that is uh unfair to the people that have had applications in and haven't got an answer
 um i struggled with that too but at the time we developed and maybe stephen can speak to that better than i can but when we developed this the reimbursement for lost revenue and then looking forward we were constrained and not able to go back another year so it it's um it's based on the federal regulations at the time that we put the program together
 I think I'd also add to that that the organizations that submitted a sub-recipient grant application, they would be eligible to apply under this program if they sustained an economic loss.
 Well, okay. So it sounds like that those nonprofits who have not been, who haven't heard anything, they can apply for this round of ARPA funding, correct? Correct. It's not a requirement that they applied in 2021 for the previous round of,
 of reimbursement. So that's not a requirement at all. Okay. You know, I thought about that quite a bit, but there may be some organizations that only suffered losses back in 2020 to 2021. And so why would they apply in 2021 and 2022? So it is open to all of those. It's also, as Stephen mentioned, it's open to those organizations that applied for subrecipient funding.
 So it sounds like, Teresa, that you're making it more equitable. That's what it sounds like to me. It is.
 Really, the only restrictions are the time requirement, just that two-week window. They've got to submit and document and be eligible for ARPA funds, all of that information, and then the cap on $100,000. So again, to try and spread this as far and wide to organizations that have documented losses. Okay, so my next question would be, and help me with this, is,
 those organizations or those nonprofits who haven't heard anything, what's going to happen with them? I mean, what will happen with them?
 I don't understand your question. I'm sorry. Okay, so are we going to reach out and tell them that they didn't get the money? They'll have to reapply. Oh, yes. Yeah, and so I see what DeAndre is saying and what Scott is saying. These folks have already got in the hopper.
 And so we hadn't told them whether they're going to get money or not. So what do we tell them when they say, well, Mayor, I got my stuff in and did it exactly the way I'm supposed to. So are you telling me that I could lose? Mayor, I think the distinction is, even though they submitted as a subrecipient, and perhaps the committee and the city council didn't approve them yet or may not, they might have another opportunity to apply for it.
 under the revenue loss, which is not the same thing that they submitted previously, which we still don't have a resolution for. That's very helpful. Thank you. And there's still money left. Even if we pass this tonight, there are still funds remaining. And I think we just heard today there's another $103,000 that will go back in.
 in the ARPA pot. So we're still not done yet. We still have a ways to go. Yeah, I would like to, Teresa, I know that you stress the two week application window and the $100,000 cap, but I also wanna make sure everyone understands
 The application window gets one application and we will not have continuing rounds actually continuing to request for the documentation. It doesn't come in, it doesn't meet the criteria, and it will not be considered.
 thank you for reinforcing that yes absolutely and i'm hoping if if the council passes this tonight that we can get the information out immediately so that it's it's spread far and wide and and um we'll be able to get that out to folks
 I think we can do that this week and we're planning on opening up the program next week. So we'll take care of that. And if it's all right with the council, we'll handle it the same way we handled the announcements for the revenue loss in the prior cycle. Correct? Terese, I have one more question. How did we arrive at the two-week window? At the two-week window? Yeah.
 Well, that was kind of a recommendation by staff. And I think in our discussions around here, we also were concerned that we would have so many applications and that $1 million would run out very quickly. And so we were trying to sort of constrain it a little bit so that, again, so that we wouldn't have applications for $5 million. We would, you know. I think...
 I like the idea, Teresa, a great deal. I think the fact that these are not sub-recipients, but organizations, nonprofits that have demonstrated loss, sets them apart from sub-recipients who have yet to be awarded funding that we can probably come up with a timeline for contacting. I think the second thing is, you know, I've got to,
 what some might view as a competing idea regarding expanding urban gardens. But really, it's not a competition in any way, shape at all. I think that I'm so proud of what Fayetteville has done with the ARPA funding that we've received and that this fight fits right in line with investing in the community in an appropriate manner.
 I think that it would be correct to say if we were to appropriate this million dollars that we would have 1.7 left. Does that sound correct? That's correct, 1.75.
 I think that the third selling point for me is that there's still funding available for a subsequent idea, a subsequent good use of funding. And so I find myself able to support this and appreciate that it's that compromise between the volume of work that staff can actually absorb because someone has to do the work. And it makes no sense to approve something that we can't administer.
 And so I think that this is that good compromise, and I commend you for the work that you put in on this. So thank you. Okay. I'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber on this topic tonight?
 Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. Okay, I'll bring it back. And what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take? I move to approve. Second. All right, we have a motion to second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from council? I care which police call the roll. I'll go ahead. Fudge? Yes.
 Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, let's go on to number four. A resolution to grant the appeal of DCI and approved large-scale development
 2022-039, located at 788 South Sherman Avenue in Ward 1. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I know it's not the first time I've spoken this evening, but Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. Allow me a moment to pull this up.
 This property is in southeast Fayetteville in Ward 1. More specifically, it's on the south side of Huntsville Road between Happy Hollow Road to the east and Curtis Avenue to the west. Even more specifically, it is just northwest of Doc Mashburn Park, which you can see the playground to just towards the bottom center of your screen. And southeast of Huntsville Road's intersection with Sherman Avenue to the northwest.
 Access to the property is currently from an existing shared driveway, which you can see on the aerial is overlaid with the name Sherman Avenue today for addressing purposes, despite it being a private driveway, has the same name there. As I described at the agenda session, the property itself is most significantly characterized by its shape. It has about 100 feet of street frontage on Huntsville Road and about 500 feet of lot depth going southward from the street.
 Canopy on the site is fairly sparse and most predominantly found along the western fence line. The request before council is an appeal from the Planning Commission's denial of a large-scale development for one single family home and seven two-family units for orientation's sake. And again, because the lot is a somewhat unusual shape, I've put north to the left-hand side of your screen here. So please don't let that fool you. Huntsville Road is on the left-hand side now.
 The requests, the facades on the building or the project do vary, but they are currently uniformly proposed to face the eastern property line, which you can see the fronts of each of those units here.
 As a part of the request, there have been four variances requested from the Unified Development Code. First and perhaps most prominently for this conversation is a variance from the city's access management standards. These are requirements for how far apart curb cuts can be located on a development. That is based on the volume or the classification of an adjoining road in a nutshell.
 higher volume of traffic on that road or the higher the classification, the further apart driveways need to be in order to minimize the number of entrances and exits onto that road.
 In this case, Huntsville Road requires 100 feet of separation between those driveways. As proposed, and you see an exhibit here, there's an intent to provide approximately, I believe it works out to about 70 feet of separation between driveways. On the left-hand side of the screen here, you can see where the existing shared curb cut is provided.
 Green is where this project proposes a new curb cut and concurrently, but separate from this proposal is another project being reviewed immediately to the east, which is that third one you see there associated with the project title LSIP 2022-09.
 The second variance request is for the minimum number of accessible spaces. In the applicant's letter, there was a stated need for this in order to accommodate a functional amount of parking on the site. Additionally, there is some conversation about whether the units themselves are accessible in nature. As a result, the applicant has proposed to provide no ADA parking spaces.
 Finally, the last two variances proposed with this request pertain to our landscaping ordinance. Both of these are on the eastern property line, and both are intended to push the development somewhat eastward in order to accommodate that fence row of trees that I described with the background of the property earlier on.
 Ultimately, staff came down in support of the overall project, but there was a mixed recommendation on the variances. Staff is not in support of the access management variance. We feel that it's not appropriate to have a third curb cut on the street of Huntsville's classification. Instead, it should either tie into the existing shared curb cut to the northwest or be coordinated elsewhere.
 Similarly, staff is not supportive of the request to not provide accessible parking. Staff finds that it could be necessary for guests. And additionally, it may be there are opportunities and ordinance to administratively reduce your parking parking place requirements, either substituting them with bike racks or motorcycle scooter spaces. So that's something the applicant could do administratively to accommodate the wider ADA spaces that are found on many properties.
 With regards to the two landscaping ordinances, staff does recognize the site is an odd shape and the priorities of tree canopy and we are in support of both variances to allow perimeter landscaping to be reduced along the eastern property line.
 The Planning Commission ultimately moved to deny the project. It was a motion to deny with a vote of 7-2 doing so. There was a majority consensus that creating the new driveway represented the creation or compoundment of a dangerous traffic condition.
 Similarly, several commissioners commented that the proposals conflicts with ordinance or just the sheer number of variances they're requesting should suggest that the layout itself was inappropriate and somehow flawed and ought to be reconsidered.
 The two dissenting voters, those who favored approving the project, felt that as the applicant submitted it represented a good effort on a very challenging property. There has been no comment to date on the item, and because the commission or council does not often see these items, I did want to share that there are six very specific conditions under which the planning commission or the city council sitting as a planning commission can deny a project.
 The first of which is that the project does not meet the Unified Development Code. In this instance, several commissioners found that requesting the variances indicated noncompliance with the development code.
 Other reasons for denial include that the project could violate city, state, or federal standards, developer refusing to dedicate right-of-way or easements. The fourth option, which again I mentioned a moment ago, was the creation or compoundment of a dangerous traffic condition.
 And then the final two are lack of access to city water and sewer or the refusal of a developer to make infrastructure requirements like connections to water and sewer or improvements to a nearby street. With that, I'm happy to take any of the council's questions. I believe Jay Young is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Mr. Mayor and Councilmember, thank you. I appreciate this opportunity. I would say admittedly, I think at Planning Commission, I mishandled this portion of my presentation. I simply stated at this moment in time with them that, we've got staff approval on everything except for these two items, let's talk about those. I think what I did in that case was I set the tone to an argument and I don't want to do that. What I'd like to do at this time with you-all,
 LET YOU KNOW THIS IS A GOOD PAYETTEVILLE PROJECT. THE OWNER OF THIS PROPERTY, THIS IS HIS FIRST DEVELOPMENT, HE LIVES IN WARD 2. THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY NEXT DOOR THAT IS CODEVELOPING, HE LIVES IN WARD 4 AND THEY'RE WORKING TOGETHER ON THESE PROJECTS.
 I, myself, live in Ward 4, and the property that we are working on here is zoned RMF 24. It's 1.2 acres. We could have 29 units. We're only doing 22. We are in full compliance with all of the zoning requirements for this. The property to the west of us is a high-density apartment project.
 The properties to the east of these two developments are single-family residential. North of Huntsville are also some single-family residential and a commercial. And so the project that we're proposing with some triplexes and a single-family residence is a good transition property between those zones. So we do feel it is a very good fit for this portion of the neighborhood and a good development to move forward.
 We started our development last summer and came to the city as a combined property with two owners developing at the same time. As we learned in that first pre-planning session with the city, the combining of the two projects was deemed to be more than 30 units on a single drive and fire code would not allow that.
 We don't have the distance to do two drives because of the buyer code requirement has a minimum distance that says it has to be separated by at least half the distance of the long diagonal of the property, which the two combined frontages of our property are less than that code distance requirement.
 And so the fire chief then said, well, if we can't get a second access, we would need to automatically sprinkler every unit in the in the development. For residential development, there are opportunities for a 13 D system, which is a more affordable residential type system.
 But even at an economical cost of about $5,000 per unit, that's still a $225,000 add to the overall budget.
 The reason the two developers wanted to work together was for efficiencies. And this was counter to that endeavor. So they chose not to work together. And they are still friends. They're still co-developing. They're still going to work together for drainage and stuff. But they are going to seek two separate approvals. And so the development on the east has been submitted for LSIP. And it has been conditionally approved. And then this development had been denied.
 And so we're coming to y'all for that appeal. Once we separated two projects, we had another pre-planning session and we started working through the comments from the city and meeting with the various departments. We had some real good meetings with every department.
 meeting with engineering and looking through the utilities and we had an original scheme that we were approaching they had asked that we do some extensions of our sewer line they asked that we extend and connect our water line across Huntsville we accommodated all of their requests it cost our owner a little bit more to do so but we accommodated all those requests and
 To get our water and sewer connectivity, we had to go south. We had to go through part of Dock Mashburn Park with our sewer line, so we met with the parks department.
 We were able to have good meetings with them. They made some requests of us as well. We're doing park fees and we are also going to be building a trail on Dock Mashburn Park. It's going to circle around the green area and stay close to the tree lines and leave as much green space open and make it handicap accessible.
 take that around to their facilities. We're gonna plant some trees on their property. Again, some additional costs on us and accommodating that city department. Met with Urban Forestry. There are some nice trees on this property. We would love to have saved them all.
 The property is a difficult property to develop because it is 100 feet wide and 500 feet long. Within that 100 foot width, we need to accommodate several items. We have to have an access lane that meets fire code.
 We have to have an area where the trash bins can be picked up for trash service. We have to have parking for our units, and the parking has to meet the minimum distance requirements of 19 feet length. We preserved a little over 20 feet on the west property line for our tree preservation. And once you add up all of those things, it really squeezes down what you have left where you can build a unit, a dwelling unit.
 And so by doing what we've done and meeting with the parks and engineering and accommodating each department, meeting with urban forestry, although Melissa admittedly would have liked to have had more preservation, they were very understanding. And in the end, every department and staff has recommended approval of our project. The two things that they couldn't get behind, as was mentioned, are the two variances that we're asking for.
 OF THE FOUR VARIANTS IS ONLY TWO. ONE BEING FOR HANDICAP AND ONE BEING FOR ACCESS. SO WE LOOK AT THIS AND WE'RE ABOUT 98% OF THE WAY THERE. WE HAVE FULL STAFF RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL. THERE WAS ZERO NEGATIVE COMMENTS FROM ANY OF THE NEIGHBORS WHICH I THINK SPEAKS VOLUMES IN PAYETTEVILLE. AND WE WORKED THROUGH EVERY ISSUE UP TO THIS POINT.
 The reason that we think that the variance for the handicap access is more out of a practicality reason. We have 22 units. Each unit has two parking spaces. That's 44 parking spaces. We barely accommodated those 44 on this property. The property is not just narrow east to west at 100 feet. It also falls in grade from west to east.
 We're preserving the trees along the west line, so we don't want to excavate there to lower that side of the property to kind of flatten it out.
 We're building our fire access and drive and the shoulder on that for the waste management right on the east property line. And so we have to match grade pretty much there. And in between the two, the only way to absorb the grade fall is going to be steps into every unit. So every unit on this property to accommodate the grading across this property will have three to five steps. So we looked at this.
 We understand that since this is a private development, these are private residential homes, triplex and single residential units, that are two stories, every one of them will be two stories, and this owner is not developing the units within themselves to be handicap accessible.
 AND THE UNITS ARE ELEVATED ABOVE THE PARKING AREAS SUCH THAT THEY HAVE THREE TO FIVE STEPS TO GET INTO THEM THAT WE ANTICIPATE IT'S NOT LIKELY GOING TO BE A HANDICAPPED PERSON THAT WOULD BE RENTING AND LEASING THESE UNITS. AND THEREFORE, NOT NECESSITATING HANDICAPPED SPACING.
 even if a handicapped person were to choose to rent one of these units, whether it would, you know, would the random location of the handicapped spot happen to be right in front of the unit he was going to rent or not? So we're anticipating the practicality side of that, probably not. Then there's an item of maybe somebody would have a guest. And so if a guest were to approach the property and
 parking handicap spot, would that handicap spot be accidentally in front of the unit he's going to visit? There's a one in 22 chance that he's in the right spot. But if that person's coming to visit somebody and they have to go up three to five steps to get into that person's home, they can also step six inches up onto a sidewalk.
 And if that person were visiting somebody in the handicapped space didn't happen to be in front of that unit, it's most likely they would opt to park in a space in front of that unit and step up onto the sidewalk rather than park further down. So that's one of the justifications for why we're asking for the variance of the handicapped spaces. And, you know, access management. Time. Okay. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I would like to give the applicant another minute to finish up. He was about to talk about access management. Would you, could you finish up in a minute?
 what I may do is take this minute, and I appreciate that, and maybe just close up a little bit and then offer... I would get on with it because you're getting into your minutes. Yeah. All right. That's just me. I'll give you a few more seconds. Thank you, sir. So...
 I think we're 90% of the way there. We're asking for your review of our proposal. We're asking for your consideration of our variances. And I am very happy to come back up if you have specific questions that I can then answer about traffic access management, safety, or any other questions or concerns you may have. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? I have a question for the staff. Jonathan, Huntsville is very busy. I'm just wondering if you all looked at the safety concerns there, how many traffic accidents had happened in that area, in that proximity?
 That is one of the considerations. It's not always just the number of accidents that staff looks at. It's also the severity of the accidents. And also, you may hear engineers talk about vertical curves. That's just basically when you have someone coming flying over a hill at you that you cannot see. The peak of Huntsville is a little bit further west from this property, so people are coming downhill from it.
 just for visualization purposes. Here is the traffic data that staff was reviewing from, and this represents the information from 2017 to 2021.
 That's a heat map and it is worth noting that the heat map looks more specific as you zoom in and out. So if you zoom out to all of Fayetteville, you probably won't even see these spots on it. But as you zoom in, this is clearly a very localized heat map. There is a record of at least one non-capacitating injury at Sherman Avenue and I think
 uh that combined with the just the number of accidents in this area gave staff some concern with not just having the potential for a higher volume of traffic coming out of this property but additional curb cuts along huntsville road we felt that typically it is more ideal from a design standpoint to have access points in the vicinity of an intersection in this case it would be meeting immediately
 across from where the public street Sherman Avenue intersects with Huntsville Road, which coincides with this property's existing shared access to the property to the west, which you can see here as I'm indicating. That was the major factors in staff's recommendation, if that helps. Thank you. That's very helpful.
 I guess I didn't see it. I always ask for the topo map. The applicant talked about the gradient and I did not see that in our packet. Can you speak to that or is there something that we could see quickly? If not, that's okay. Certainly, I can pull the other map right up. But while I'm doing that, if you'd like to applicant may be able to speak exactly to what the grade is if he has that on hand.
 Yes, could you describe what the gradient drop-off is? Sure. In our packet, Jonathan, if you want to pull up the first sheet of our submitted plans, it'll show the current conditions of the property, and it has the contours and grading on it. Certainly. Let me one moment here. And while he's doing that, I do have one question for you, sir. Yes, ma'am.
 So you noted that the FAR chief or the FAR code says that it's a maximum of 30. Is that units or, and between the two, your neighbor to, I guess, the east of you, how many units is he putting in? He's putting in 23 units and the property that I'm here representing tonight is putting in 22 units for a combined 45. So, okay. So you're well above that. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yeah.
 On the existing curb cut that's there, how many residents, is it just one single residence that feeds that curb cut? So that's a good one right there. So that shows the gradient across. You can see where the contours are stacked up at the northwest corner, which is to the left, lower left, and then they fall, all the contours consistently fall as you go to the upper right, which is to the southeast, and that's the fall across the property.
 the existing curb cut, which is at our northwest corner.
 There's about five feet of that driveway that's on us and the remainder of it is on the neighbor's property. And the neighboring property today is a duplex. And so there are two units that use that driveway on the neighbor. Our property previously had a duplex on it and so there were two units on our property. And so those four units were using that one driveway for a period of years.
 As was mentioned earlier, although it's addressed on Sherman Lane, Sherman Lane does not extend south and there's no public right-of-way. And although the use has been consistent for a period of time, there's no access easement, no written easement for the use of the neighbor's property to access our property. Council Member Turk, to put a number to your question, it looks like the general slip on the property varies from just shy of 4% to around 5%.
 Thank you. I have a question for Kit. Kit, do we have any legal ramifications statewide for not having an accessible parking space for that number of units or is that more our code? Yeah, I don't think that that's a legal problem from us.
 If that's your question. That's my question. Is that more our choice? I think the federal law would make this builder do it because if they would, then we would ensure that they would do it and there would be no variance possible.
 So this is something that is up to your discretion, just like it was up to the Planning Commission's discretion. Okay. I just wanted to double check that. So if I understand correctly, you're saying the legal liability when someone sues for their lack of an ADA parking space would be the property owner and not the city council. They can't name me as a co-insured.
 I mean, you're safe. I'm safe. Mike, don't worry. I'll be there to defend you. I'm worried now. I'm worried. I think theactually, it's probably not actually covered under the ADA to require this private developer to do that. So I think that's what they're asserting, and I don't think that's
 Even though maybe our code is trying to be more generous, I think probably under the federal law they're okay. And so it's unlikely anybody would be sued. However, of course, we'd like to be even more generous in our protection of ADA rights. I'm comfortable being wrong. I think that the state would be comfortable with it, but that the feds would not relinquish the...
 Chapter 13 of the original UBC that says that yeah, that that's a requirement under federal law even if the state doesn't. It's that swampy middle ground where you comply with your state to pull your building code, but you're still federally liable under the ADA guidelines. So
 That's not our biggest worry. My concern is the number of variances, Jonathan. Could you put back up your slide that kind of enumerated those for us? Because while it sounds like we're just dealing with two, I thought that we were dealing with six and that we would be acting as the council on all six if we were to approve this.
 While Jonathan's looking that up, Mike, to talk about ADA a little bit more, I don't believe, and correct me if I'm wrong, I don't believe that this would apply to a private sector. So I don't think that we would be concerned about that.
 the federal level either. You know I'm probably the one that's going to advocate for the most accessibility here but I do believe in this particular development we look at a case-by-case scenario I think that it makes sense to grant the variance for this specific property and here's why.
 Anybody, just like the developer said, anybody who is going to be visiting is going to be parking in those middle spaces that they designate. So it's not going to guarantee access, equitable access anyways. We're going to be having to have a slope or a ramp to get up those three to five steps. And the ramp that would be required would be if you have one inch of rise, you need a 12 inch slope.
 That doesn't seem to work with this particular property. And I think if we do not require the units to be accessible, nor does the state, nor does the federal government, I don't know that our requirement of these parking spaces makes sense here.
 Yeah, Andre go ahead. Yes, if we could have the applicant to Mayor Jordan to come forth and discuss safety and traffic concerns. Okay. Sure. I mean you can bring them up until you want
 Yes, so I think in reference to the access management code, the minimum distance of 100 feet between the curb cuts and the statement as to whether it's a safety concern. And so what we look at on any location where we're looking at traffic on an existing street that abuts our property,
 is, you know, can a driver that is pulling out of the property, does he have proper sight distance to safely pull out into traffic? Or does a driver that's driving down the road, do they have proper sight distance to safely stop in case there's a hazard? And on this road, it's a neighborhood link street that's got a 35-mile-per-hour speed limit.
 The calculations are somebody that presses on their brake can stop at 35 miles an hour in 59 feet. The other thing to consider though is a person's reaction time. And so the time it takes from you, the time you perceive a hazard, whether that be a vehicle pulling into traffic, a dog across the road or a soccer ball being kicked across the road.
 The time you perceive that hazard at 35 miles an hour, you lift your foot up off the gas, you press it onto the brakes. It takes about 77 feet in travel to do so. So 77 and 59 is 136 feet. 136 feet is the safe stopping distance to react to a hazard. That has nothing to do with the distance between driveways. The distance between driveways is more of a traffic ability concern.
 traffic ability is more of the maintaining a safe flow of traffic, a consistent flow of traffic. And that is a good thing to do. And it's a good thing that we have ordinances that help
 to keep traffic ability. Imagine being in a commercial area where you've got lots of retail spaces and you've got a driveway every 50 feet, people coming and going all day long. And every time somebody wants to turn out of traffic into driveway, everybody behind them has to slow down, stop, speed back up, then they do it again, they do it again, they do it again. It's frustrating. We limit that by separating driveways, by creating less accesses to the road.
 And that's a good thing. And in our case, if we had wider property where we could accommodate a driveway that would be 100 feet from each of the two neighbors drives, then we should do so because it's written in the code and that's a good thing for the overall road.
 We don't have that space. Our neighbor's driveway is right on our property line. Our neighbor to the east has an existing curb cut. He is doing a development. He's going to widen his curb cut to meet the city's requirement for a multifamily commercial-style curb cut. But it's going to stay in the same place. We're between those existing restrictions on our road, and we only have 100 feet of property to be able to access from.
 So what can we do to try and come as close to meeting the codes intent as we can? We centered up between those. And so we're not able to get 100 feet, but we're able to get 70 feet. So we're 70 percent of the way there. So back to traffic ability, back back to sightlines. So at the proposed driveway location.
 We can see over 500 feet to the east and we can see 500 feet to the west to the top of the hill. That's well more than the 136 feet needed for either the driver to react to a hazard or for a driver to pull out of the driveway safely. They've got more than enough sight distance. So it's not necessarily a safety concern having it. And it's a traffic ability concern. So if we've got enough sight distance and you could safely pull out at 70 feet,
 You can also safely pull out at 100, but why would 70 feet suddenly be unsafe where 100 feet is safe? So, again, we come back to a traffic ability. This development, if we were to share the driveway to the west, what would be gained? Our 22 units would share the drive with the duplex. So we would have 24 units sharing one drive.
 And that's what we gain by sharing. Instead of two curb cuts with 22 and 2, we have one curb cut with 24. But what does that do to the neighbor? The neighbor, we don't have an easement across the neighbor. We don't have a right-of-way on the neighbor. So we've got to go to the neighbor and ask them to give us an easement, or we have to mitigate it in another way. That neighbor is not likely to be willing to just...
 open up and say, yeah, we're okay with now having to share our driveway with 22 more units. So that doesn't pass the practicality test. But when is it a concern? The concern is only when you're driving down Huntsville Road and you've got two people in front of you who both want to turn into the driveways.
 Because if you're the driver going down Huntsville Road and you're not turning into these driveways, you have to slow down and then speed up each time somebody in front of you slows down and turns. And the only time that having two driveways is any different than having one driveway is if you're the driver of a vehicle and the two people who want to turn into those driveways are both right in front of you.
 and they're in the correct order, that you have to slow down for one, wait for him to turn, you speed up a little bit, then you slow down again for the next one and wait for him to turn. If they're in the other order, you're still only gonna slow down once.
 or if they're separated by a few minutes or several cars, you're going to slow down twice no matter what, whether it's at two different driveways or just one driveway. So as a traffic ability concern, the gain on this is you only gain two vehicles to the 22.
 and it doesn't really disrupt your day. These being residential, it's most likely, if it's going to occur, to occur in the morning once or twice, and occur in the evening once or twice, and only in that random time where you're driving behind two people who are simultaneously going to turn into those two driveways in the wrong order. Okay. Hang on just a minute. Does that answer your question, Councilor Roussel? Thank you. Yes. Anything else? Scott.
 I struggle a little bit with this because on one hand we're talking about the need for housing and on the other hand we're debating that we should not approve this project for housing. It's got some challenges, absolutely it does. I tend to to walking in here tonight I tended to
 I think I wasn't going to support the ADA variance, but then listening to the conversation, it seems to make perfect sense that if they've got to go up at any point, three to five steps, it just doesn't seem like it's a hurdle that should prevent us from developing this piece of property. Curb cut is problematic and I'm still not sure what direction I want to go on that,
 But I'm struggling with the fact of trying to force the neighbor or put them in a position to, you know, have to go to the neighbor for access to that property. Because as a adjacent property owner, I don't know that I would do that because you're going to load up 22 additional houses on my driveway. And I'm just thinking, I don't know that I would agree to that. So it will.
 I don't know, I struggle because I think it's a viable project and I think it's one that's needed. And I hope that we can figure out a way to get it approved with whatever we deem necessary to get it there. But I think it's a viable project. The owner. Jonathan, did we have any, were there any citizens, any of the neighbors that they hadn't spoke out against it, right? No one said anything.
 that's correct staff has not heard any public comment or either before or at the planning commission okay thank you therese jonathan i have a question um you know maybe you could just maybe give us some perspective on how often you grant a variance with access management especially with the kind of traffic data that you showed us accident data you showed us earlier how often does that happen
 It is difficult to put a number to. There are some very significant legal considerations every time staff is charged with making one of these recommendations, as Mr. Williams could attest. We have written and rewritten our access management ordinance to protect private property rights. When a piece of property is adjacent to a public street, there's a certain amount of assumed right to access that street.
 So, there are instances where staff has supported these variances. It's not frequent or infrequent. Of those instances, there are several times that staff supports some sort of reduced access.
 what we like to call a right in, right out. If you think of some developments where, like a gas station is probably the most prolific example where it's on a corner and we tend to recommend they have full access to a side street that can access a street light. And then off of main road, they'd have a right in, right out, because we want to discourage those left turns being the most dangerous onto a higher volume street. So I realize that's,
 a non-answer of sorts. We certainly see these quite a few times, but it is always first and foremost in our mind to make sure that a property owner's right of access is protected. And I think in this instance, that went into staff's recommendation to pursue the existing shared curb cut as an alternative to a new curb cut.
 I should probably point out that what the legal ramifications are is that the Supreme Court of Arkansas has consistently held that a property owner of budding a street has a property interest in Accessing that street and that if the city wants to take away that access right? We have basically condemned that property interest and we will pay for it when you look at this property 500 feet deep 100 feet wide
 Is it usable without an access to Huntsville Road? So many times I would be here saying you must grant this variance unless you want to buy a lot of property. In this particular case, and I've spoken with the engineer and he knows my position on this, is that in fact,
 He will, his persons, his tenants would not be able to use the current driveway that's on the adjoining duplex's lot. However, that comes out right next to his lot and the curb cut for the duplex is on city right of way. And so that it would be theoretically possible to, not with the way he has it designed now,
 But to redesign this project so that his driveway would hit that other curb cut that's already there, have to enlarge the curb cut because until he got on City Right-of-Way, he wouldn't have any right or his tenants wouldn't have any right to be on that.
 So, they, you know, obviously the city right-of-way extends back into the property up to the edge of where the right-of-way is. And so, they could potentially use that. That does present some problems, though, safety problems. Because you have the tenants from the west, the duplex, four cars, that would be coming
 And there kind of would be a little bit of conflict potentially with the apartment people coming in from the left and having almost kind of merge at that exit, at that curb cut. And so the question would be from a safety point of view, would that be more safe? It would comply with our access management standards, so they wouldn't need a variance if they would do this.
 But would that be more safe than what the applicant is proposing now to have his own curb cut that he has designed
 My purpose on saying this is saying you don't have to grant that variance. Sometimes you might. You know, if that was the only way somebody could get out, I would say grant the variance or we might be buying the property. In this case, I don't think that's it, but I do think there's a test for you all to consider which is the safest and which makes the most sense. Staff was against that variance where they would allow his own curb cut.
 And I think that was also a bone of contention at the Planning Commission. But you all still have the right, if you believe that it makes more sense, to let this property owner exit or have his tenants exit on a separate curb cut that's at least 50 feet or 70 feet, however, away from the other driveway, not a street, but a driveway.
 So you'd have to say, which is safer? And the reason you don't want to have driveways actually too close together is because there can be conflict with people leaving.
 But here, is it safer to do that or is it safer to have them potentially conflict coming out of the same driveway trying to get to it, get to the curb cut? So that's kind of the issue you need to look at. And you all have the discretion to make that decision either way tonight. So I just want to make sure you understand you have the discretion on that, just like you do on the disabled parking.
 I personally think that the separate entrance makes more sense because if we're trying to make it safer, we're spacing that out. If we make them put their driveway right next to the other person's driveway, we've just made that as close as possible. So for me, it makes sense to have it spaced as far apart as possible. And from the designs that I've seen, it's about 70 feet between each driveway there. So that would be my input. Trace, please.
 Well, I mean, we are having a lot of discussions about driveways and spatial distances and site distances. And I can just say that tonight my preference would be to hold this for two weeks so that we actually could go out and get a tour now that we know a lot more about this particular piece of property and can actually see some of the trade-offs the applicant discussed and then also the access management. So that would be my two cents worth for tonight.
 And for staff, Jonathan, we have the proposed development site plan, but we don't have a site plan that would show the shared driveway example, do we? I don't believe that's been proposed by the applicant at this point, so I don't think we have any drawing showing that. They would have to totally redesign their project to do that, so I don't think you're going to be able to see that unless they want to do that total redesign at this point.
 Well, let's take some public. Okay, Scott, you have something. One last question with for the applicant. Sounds like you all had some conversations about that shared drive. How would that if we came down on that side to say we're going to force you to use that? How does that change your development in your eyes?
 Okay. If any of the two variances that are recommended for denial are denied tonight, we can still move forward with our development. It's not going to kill the development and it wouldn't be a complete redesign if we had to. It would be a redesign of the northerly 60 or 70 feet of our project.
 What we would have to do on that shared driveway that is there now, that is narrow. We can't widen it to the west. It serves no purpose to widen it further to the west because we're trying to stay off of the neighbors. So we would have to widen it to the east.
 based on the city's standard for a driveway for a multi-family property like this, we can't widen it. We would have to widen it further. So if we meet what the city says the proper width is, we still cannot get onto our property without crossing over part of the neighbor's property. So we would have to widen it further, which is
 another variance request that could be granted through the city engineer and they would likely grant that if they would prefer us to do so rather than have a separate cut.
 But then you still have that portion of the neighbor's driveway that is in the public right-of-way, and the potential for them to try to use that portion in conflict with turning motions to get into this extra-wide driveway. So what we do is that portion of their driveway that's in the public, we would have to stripe it out for no driving. And so that's what Kit and I kind of sketched up when we were talking about, is it possible
 Yes, it is possible. We would do a wider driveway and we would strike out a part of the existing driveway for no use. And then the neighbor, we would grant the neighbor an easement over our property for the extra wide driveway so that they would then leave their garage, come to our driveway on what would kind of be a Y intersection. And then they would have to get in with our 22 units of people.
 to get out to Huntsville to then turn out. But that is a way that we can make that work. The other implication of that is along with the adjustment of the drive so that our driveway now is north and south along our east property line. So it would, we would lose a couple of units and we would curve to the west and then we would curve back to the north to Huntsville.
 But one thing that that does is that lengthens my drive by more than 500 feet, which is a fire code issue. And since the drive now becomes longer than 500 feet because of that excess additional distance, my drive has to be 26 feet wide. So now I widen my drive 26 feet, my parking spaces, my sidewalk and my units all move six more feet to the west and we lose all of our tree preservation.
 um but that and then again it's not a total redesign it's just an adjustment of that drive we have one other option and that would be just to mirror the property and again not a redesign we keep all the same units the roads on the west instead of on the east but now my my buildings are on the east side of my property with an eight foot setback line so everything moves eight foot east and we still lose our tree preservation but my road would be less than 500 feet and we could do it as a 20 foot wide road
 A mirror of a property isn't a complete redesign and adjusting the driveway at the front isn't a complete redesign. If it is the intent of this council to deny one or both of those variances, we can accommodate that if the project were allowed to move forward. I'll answer your question, Scott. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 I had a real quick question for the applicant here, and then Teresa's got a question too. So if we did table this for two weeks, would that, you know, I mean, is that going to be something that you could work with if we did that? We would just pause for two more weeks. If that was the desire, we can accommodate that. Okay, all right, thank you.
 I had a question for the fire representative, just so I understand a little bit more about what the applicant said. Yes, ma'am. So the applicant just mentioned that if the drive, if I understood him correctly, once it's past 500 feet in length, it has to be widened to 26 feet as opposed to 20 feet, if I got that correct. Why is that?
 Well, it's for fire department access. I mean, it's just simply just so that we are able to access if vehicles are truly parked on the side.
 So just to ensure that there's enough room, I guess, along the length for you all to turn around or maneuver. Yes. And to be able to operate off of whatever side the fire apparatus is on as well. And so it gives us that buffer so that we are able to operate as well as park that unit. Most of those units do take up quite a bit of space. So they're, you know, they're about eight foot wide apparatus. And then a lot of times if we do have an aerial apparatus in there, those require an offset. So they require usually another four to five feet.
 Okay. So it's really, so if they have the same number of apartments, the probability of a fire is roughly the same. I mean, how critical is that distance? I guess what I'm asking is that that variance may be,
 less important than maybe some of these other variances? I just don't know. Well, as the project's designed, I mean, any variants, I mean, we're just going to refer back to fire code. I mean, so...
 You know, fire code does require two separate approved accesses, road accesses into that complex. And honestly, I mean, if it's 30 or more units, it either requires two roads in or it requires that facility or that development to be sprinkled. I mean, it's going to have to meet either like the applicant stated earlier, it's going to have to meet that 13D or the 13R requirement.
 And those are state and federal regulations, right? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you so much. I'm sorry.
 I just wanted to say, if we want to hold it for a couple weeks, if the applicant said, I mean, they could pause, but I honestly would be in favor of going ahead and improving this. I feel like the applicant was very thoughtful with this piece of property. It has a lot of challenges to it, but it also is increasing access to housing in this area of town.
 And I guess I have concerns about some of the solutions come with their own drawbacks. And so when we're talking about the access point where we change the drive, I mean, that's more impervious surface. I mean, do we really want, you know, more concrete, more hard surface? I'm really concerned that that project loses housing. They're really maximizing the amount of housing.
 and then wider curb cuts. And then you heard him say, like, if he has to move the project, we end up losing. I mean, our trees are so incredibly important, and I think they're really trying to maximize and be thoughtful with those trees. And so I understand if we want to give it some more thought, but I would be in favor of moving this project forward tonight. Well, I thought we might get a little public input. Let's do that. Let's do that.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any councilman stay on topic please give us your name and address those pressed in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this project that's in the chamber okay susan do you have anyone on zoom no sir okay then i will bring it back to the council well what's the wishes of the council
 I make a motion that we approve the appeal. Second. Second. I would like to. Before you just approve this resolution, you need to see how it is written. It is written that you're approving this large-scale development with conditions outlined in the staff memo attached to this resolution. Two of those staff conditions are denial of the variances. So if you want to actually approve the project,
 You will need to say except for the conditions which denied the variances that those variances will be approved or are approved. And if we do that, then we're going back to the original where city staff had
 We're going back to that original approval, right? Well, the staff, the original city staff approval was for everything except those two variances. Is that right, Jeremy? That's correct. As the resolution is written, this recommends a denial of the access management and ADA parking space. To Mr. Williams' point that- I feel like you want to grant those variances. I have to change this resolution somewhat.
 I'm going to go ahead and make a motion that we approve with the granting the variances and not the denial. Second. Okay. Did you state that, Mayor? I was just fixing to ask what the Ward 1 representative thought about all this. But anyway, so, Teresa, you...
 make your mo I mean not Tracy but Sarah you made the motion to include the variances in the development let me get back to you approve the variances yeah that's what I understood is that what you're saying there well all for what I need it let me get back to you my Jonathan maybe you could could you put that up on the screen maybe you had those four items so
 Your motion is to approve and grant all the variances. I'm wanting to approve what this guy's asking for. That's where I'm at. So if you can pull that up there for me. I mean, that really helps me. You know, I mean. Now, I would like to hear from the Ward 1 on what they're thinking. Have they heard anything or anything like that?
 I haven't heard anything. I actually had a conversation with the applicant and his commitment to housing and he is very open to correcting any of those challenges. So I'm, I'm supporting it. Okay.
 And the same thing, I haven't heard anything. I also had a great reading with Mr. Young, and it sounds like he had, you know, since this project's been going since last summer, he's been nothing but working with the city departments to figure out how to make it work. So I feel like...
 If it was a brand new project with somebody who was outside that just wanted to make a quick dollar, that might weigh differently. But I think this is a perfect example of looking at the case in detail on the local scale. And when we talk about housing needs, I think this fits incredibly well. And I've thought about the coming in and out the curb cut thing.
 And I just think it's nice for him to have they have their own that that they deal with and it's on their property because otherwise they're going to have to continue to work with the other neighbor for who knows for whenever whatever projects they have. So that's kind of where I've landed on the on the curb cut in 70 feet feels close enough to 100 feet.
 Again, weighing the need for housing. So that's why I'm in support of the project and approving all the variances. And Mayor Jordan, the fact that no one's come forward opposing it.
 thank you all um thank you mayor um i have some concerns i have definitely the accident information is concerning to me and i do appreciate the applicant going to um working with staff and trying to figure all these things out and there are definitely trade-offs here on
 but the fact that you haven't actually approached the neighbor to share the driveway. I think that, that I would like to actually see that discussion happen and I,
 Really, honestly, I know we have a motion on the floor, but I think going out there and actually seeing on the ground would have been very helpful. I kind of regret that we didn't have a tour, but, you know, we also had a holiday and that was going to be challenging. But I'm probably not going to support this because I do have some serious concerns about not all other options have been exhausted. Right.
 They could sprinkle the house. They could do some other things. And and and to me, safety is that is my number one decision maker here. And I'm not convinced that that that that allowing the variants for access is the appropriate thing to do. Thank you, Scott. I walked in unsure about this. And as as we've talked.
 I want to first acknowledge that that staff, you know, I completely respect your opinions. My concern, though, is as we work with the challenges of affordable housing and housing in general and infill, we're going to get in situations where we have to get creative. We're not going to have a cookie cutter every hundred foot.
 we're gonna allow a curb cut. We're gonna have to get creative. Not gonna have a choice. And I think this is a project that, although it has its struggles, I think it fits what we envision that we want in that area. And I think it's an example of we're gonna have to get creative. And in my case, I'm gonna support the request for variances.
 Okay. Anybody? No, Mike, sorry. No, I want to compliment the engineer as well. I'm just shocked he's not here about a vacancy, you know, a vacating property for the University of Arkansas's senior walk. So I commend you for having a second topic. This is good.
 I share the safety concerns regarding this and the fact that I don't have an example to look at that show me the alternative. I commend the engineer for having considered those alternatives, having prepared them. I think that is a big deal. Regarding the parking, I think the concern I have is that...
 Five years from now, one of the residents finds themselves in an accident and says, well, gee, you know, I guess I need to move through my fault of my own because I have a van and I need to be able to load and unload and there's no ability to accommodate me even though I'm a five-year resident.
 I look at that solution as, you know, instead of everything being a triplex, one is a duplex, and I capture additional parking spaces. And so I don't view that as a hardship. I view that as a variance that I would be somewhat hesitant to approve. The access one, I might be more open to, but I don't feel comfortable approving anything involving that kind of road safety.
 the last thing that i would say mr mayor is that when we look at the impact of the project we are attempting to balance the addition of dwellings but we've got to look at the impact of those dwellings on the street that all those residents and everyone else that uses huntsville road is going to be impacted by and so looking at their safety
 is also something, not just the safety of the residents pulling in and out. And so I again think the engineer is doing a very commendable job, but I don't have a picture to show me those alternatives and those trade-offs. I only have language and the original proposal. So I'm not comfortable coming down on the side of supporting those two additional variances.
 Again, the engineer did a fine job. Our planning commission is very much supportive of development, and yet they denied this 7 to 2. So I kind of have to lean on this one with the planning commission and with staff. Thank you. Okay.
 All right. Well, Mayor, the first thing that must be done, I think, according to our motion at this point in time, is a motion to amend. A motion to amend the current resolution and see if this fits what you are trying to say, Sarah. I would only add at the end where it says with the conditions outlined in the staff memo attached to this resolution, and then I would add.
 except that variances for access management and no disabled parking are approved. So that would be the additional language at the end of that resolution, and that vote on amending the resolution would need to come before we vote on the resolution. So it would get rid of the handicap option?
 requirement or yeah the handicap requirement variance would be approved and the access management variance would be approved is that what you are intending yes so so I would make an amendment to the current resolution to include the staff conditions attached except
 removing the one concerning access management and the ADA requirements second okay that is my motion to amend thank you okay so everybody got it all right we have a motion and a second correct Kerowitz please call the roll Bunch yes Erk no Erksberg yes
 Harvey yes Jones yes for yes Whitaker no, no, yes Resolution is now amended and ready for a final vote if that's what you intend to do Yes To pass the amended resolution yes, I
 second Butch yes, Eric no Hertzberg yes, RV. Yes Jones yes More yes, we occur. No Yes, so the amended resolution passed. All right. Well, let's go on the number five. Do we want to take just a quick break? I
 Okay. Would everybody be okay with that, just a little one? Would you like to have a break? I'd like to have a break. All right. That's all you needed to say. Mayor, give me a little break here. Are we breaking? Cut me a little slack, Mayor. We are started now. What? Our meeting's started now.
 a resolution to grant the appeal of council members deandre jones holly hirschberg and scott berna and approved conditional use permit cup 2022-0129 for a short-term rental at 215 west lafayette street jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm happy to give the background on this one and then, of course, hand it off to the council members that are sponsoring the appeal. And also, James Baxter is here as the applicant for the item. But leading into that, this property is in downtown Fayetteville in Ward 2. It's on the southeast corner of Lafayette and Ralston. The property is currently developed with a single family home that has access by way of a driveway onto Lafayette Street to the north.
 The request before council is an appeal from the Planning Commission's denial for a Type 2 conditional use permit request on the property. I know I've said it often, but it always bears repeating. A Type 2 in Fayetteville means a property that is primarily used as a short-term rental, but there's not a permanent either long-term resident or property owner that are there.
 Here are some images of the property. If you did not have an opportunity to visit it between agenda session and today, the picture in the upper left corner is looking south from Lafayette and with the driveway you can see looking from the southwest onto the property.
 As a type two short term rental, of course, it does require a conditional use permit. Despite the amendments made by the city council in December, residentially zoned properties do still require them. This property is zoned in C neighborhood conservation, which is primarily a single family zoning district.
 Additionally, because hotels and motels are not allowed by right, it does not contribute to our citywide cap of Type 2 short-term rentals. Or it does, I'm sorry, it does contribute, excuse me. It was an important slip of the tongue there.
 Some of the items that staff reviews when they look at requests like this begin with occupancy. Under our ordinance, you're allowed to have two guests per bedroom plus two as a two-bedroom house. This allows this property to have six guests. It's proposed to continue using residential trash carts for its solid waste and recycling service.
 The four new use conditions that the council adopted in December that planning staff and the planning commission are now using include an evaluation of adequate parking. This site has two on-site spaces, which I'll go into in a little bit of detail here shortly following the agenda session question from Council Member Kirk. Also there's a question of the adequacy of streets.
 Both Ralston and Lafayette are fully improved streets and can accommodate on street parking to some extent. Another use condition under consideration now is for the concentration of type two short-term rentals. Code does not specify how many or in what area with an understanding that our city varies widely and it's the density of housing. In this case, there are 22 type two short-term rentals within a quarter mile walk.
 Staff began using a quarter mile as a good baseline since that's often used in walkability metrics as a way of considering what is a general neighborhood. The property in question you can see in the center of that in the light blue square, again, at the southeast corner of Ralston and Lafayette. Each red dot represents a type two short term rental in the area.
 And the last one, of course, is if there have been any documented zoning violations on the property. For this property on 215 Lafayette, there have been none so far. But that does segue into a comment you may have seen in the Planning Commission report or the appeal letter that there was a previous use of it.
 of the property as a short-term rental. To date, we've seen or not been able to identify any sort of license that was in place. So although there have not been any complaints, it does appear that it may have been operating by a previous property owner without appropriate licensing.
 Moving on to some more parking specific questions, again Councilmember Turk asked for some more details at agenda session. The applicant provided the picture on the left which does show two larger vehicles in the driveway. I put a tape measure to it. It comes out to about nine and a half feet wide by 37 feet deep.
 If you were to compare that to the standard development code requirement for a surface parking lot, we require 9 by 19 feet. That's just about included. But if you do allow for vehicle overhang, like if you were to put your front tires to the end of the driveway, it could absolutely align with our development code standard parking depth size requirement.
 Additionally, the property does have access to one residential parking permit and two guest parking permits, and that was confirmed with the parking division over the last week. With all that in mind and on the balance of issues, staff did recommend approval of the
 When a motion was made to approve the item by the Planning Commission, it was a split vote of four to four, which is in effect a failed motion since the Planning Commission and their bylaws do require that conditional use permits have five affirmative votes. The main commentary of the commission was with regards to why this was not appropriate. There was concern or perception that there was an excess of short-term rentals in the area.
 While not fully disagreeing necessarily, I had a more perhaps different nuanced view that this is an area of much more dense housing. There's a higher frequency of housing, so there may be appropriate to have an associated higher frequency of short-term rentals.
 The commission or some commissioners at least also had concerns about the property's access to Lafayette and that may not be safe for transitional guests coming in and out of the property frequently. And there are also concerns expressed about adequate parking. I don't believe that there was the exact same information I provided to you all about parking available to the commission when their vote was taken.
 Otherwise, staff has not received any public comment on the item. Again, I'm happy to hand this over to the council members who sponsored it. And Mr. Baxter is here as the applicant for the item, Mayor. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council members. Thank you so much for your time. I know it's been a long night, so I'll try to keep it as brief as possible. I do have a presentation, a PowerPoint that I made that I think Jonathan has available here.
 Just to recap real quickly, first I want to emphasize previous owner that may have had a violation for operating a short-term rental. I think there may have been some confusion when the grandfathering end date ended. I'm here trying to do things correctly. I just want to be clear that that was a previous owner and not myself.
 Just bottom line, I'm asking for you all to approve a permit, a conditional use permit that the city staff has recommended be approved and it was only denied in a tie tie vote when there's been no public opposition to it. The PowerPoint basically is to address the two main concerns the planning board had. So as you can see on the PowerPoint, the planning board's main concern was the abundance of type two rentals in the area.
 There is several condominium complexes within the quarter mile area, which, blue to that, for instance, 305 right there is a one bedroom condominium. So there are two other short-term rentals on Ralston. But if you actually take that into, if you look at other areas of Fayetteville, there are actually far more abundant areas than what we're dealing with here. So if you could go to the next slide.
 So for instance, there's just one small condominium complex on Gregg has seven units all basically huddled in together, which would be more than obviously the three or four that are on Ralston there. If you could go next. Same situation here on West 5th, just barely in South Fayetteville.
 You have several right there all basically together and those are all townhomes. So I would say that there are areas that have far more short-term, type 2 short-term rentals congregated than what we're dealing with here. If you could go to the next one. Also just wanted to point out, like city staff said, we're dealing with a dense area. A lot of the reason why ours are high is because of the multi-unit condominium complexes.
 that have several. So for instance, just a block over from my house on Campbell, there is a condominium complex that is all one bedroom. So under the rules, only four people could stay there. That drives the number up considerably. Just one thing I want to say to save my credibility, I did put mostly in the PowerPoint that it probably should be about a half. I wouldn't say it's a majority, but it is half. You could go to the next slide.
 I just wanted to point out there's been a lot of conversation about the, again, we're dealing with a dense area. For instance, if you go just over to Dixon, which is barely outside of the quarter mile area, there's 11 units just because you're dealing with the Dixon condominium complex and you're also dealing with the UART mold. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 This is just a thing, I wanted the number 32, or there was number 22 type two short-term rentals within a quarter of mile of our house. I just wanted to again reemphasize that staff is correct. This is just a dense area.
 reason we're dealing with that number is because we're dealing with a dense area. There are several areas you can draw a quarter mile and come up with way more than 22 type 2 short-term rentals. For instance, if you start with 615 or 600 West Dixon, which is the Dixon complex, you get 32 type 2 short-term rentals. And in fact, if you go pretty much up Dixon Street anywhere and go back towards the Fayetteville Library anywhere, you're still going to get a number that's higher than 22 type 2 short-term rentals in the area.
 If you could go to the next slide. And that's all, big point I wanna make is that type two short-term rentals are not drawing complaints, they're not causing problems in the area. While there might be an excess amount, y'all city's website provides that there's only been 13 type two short-term rental complaints since 2020, and none of them are in really the area around our house. None of them are in the downtown Fayetteville area. I think that's A, because short-term rentals are probably more expected in that area, people are used to it more.
 But B, there's just also not a problem that's been created there as far as complaint-wise. And I did email all of you all an Excel sheet. I figured that would be easier than trying to pass something out here now, which details those complaints. And also, of those 13 complaints, most of them are, or not most of them, but five or six of them are just complaining that someone's operating without a license. If you could go to the...
 And so, again, I just want to re-emphasize what all these slides go to show is that city staff's findings are just absolutely correct. The reason we're dealing with a higher number here is because we're dealing with a dense area. We're dealing with condominiums. We're dealing with areas that you're going to expect to see type 2 short-term rentals. We're dealing with downtown area where people want to stay, people want to buy things for. You have a lot of things that's the walking distance and things of that nature. Okay.
 And I want to talk about parking. There was some misunderstanding, I think, at the planning board, and that was probably my fault. I should have been more prepared for this. The driveway is a two-car driveway, I believe.
 Jonathan said it is 37 feet without the overhang. The standard would be 38 feet in depth. But if you actually consider the overhang, which I think is appropriate, because you can pull the vehicle over the overhang, you really have a driveway that's 40 feet in depth. You also have a, we also have two public on-street parking, never have an issue with parking. There's actually pretty generally available parking there on Ralston or on Lafayette.
 That's just a, at the planning board there was some criticism that they thought the driveway was only a one-car driveway and I think that misunderstanding was partially my fault that I wasn't prepared for that. This is just a picture to show two cars can easily fit in the driveway.
 I did just want to point out there are other nearby properties that have less on-site parking. This is not an exhaustive list. This is just one that has absolutely no on-site parking. Everything's off-street and it's a type 2 rental. And the next slide just lists some more addresses with less parking than the subject, our house. So that's not an exhaustive list either. This is just me going through the city's website for about 30 minutes finding different type 2 rentals that have less parking.
 I apologize for that. But we're dealing with the downtown area as seen by these other houses. There's a lot of businesses in downtown that don't even have on-site parking. So, I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing.
 on-site parking relies on street parking. That's a common trend. So I think the parking situation is adequate. There was some concern about backing up into Lafayette Street. But I think that the problem is going to be there. If it's long-term residents, it's a long-term rental or not. In fact, I think it'd be exacerbated by a long-term rental versus a short-term rental. Because you're gonna have more people coming in and out of it daily. And I've also can just speak from personal experience. I've never really had a problem backing into Lafayette. There can be some,
 congested moments, but they don't last very long as long as I think the driver's patient there's not really a problem and I haven't experienced a problem.
 And I believe that is my presentation. Be happy to answer any questions. Do wanna say that I'm not a normal type two property renter. We bought this house because we went to school in Fayetteville. Love Fayetteville, wanna be more present in the community. Not an outsider just trying to make money in the community. I would love to actually live here. Can't do that for job reasons, but I thank y'all so much for your time. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff?
 I just want to make a comment about why I wanted to bring this forward. I think this was a unique situation because it did have staff's approval, but we did get a tied vote at planning. So I wanted to bring it here to break the tie and then also for the applicant to be able to bring forward those factors that were possibly not fully considered last time that this was discussed.
 specifically about the parking. I think that those two on-street parking spaces make a huge difference. So thank you for sharing that. Thank you. Scott, do you have any comments? I would echo what Holly said. I felt it was because of those two issues mainly, I thought it was worthy of consideration for us to take another look. Okay, DeAndre. Same for me. Okay. Okay, do we have any other questions for it?
 I have a question about, not for you, sorry, but for Jonathan. Can you explain to us about the downtown design overlay area and what that means exactly? Thank you very much. Certainly. Is it in any particular context? I'm sorry. Just kind of give us a rundown on that in case some
 of the council members don't understand that. Certainly, the downtown design overlay district was a result of the downtown master planning process in the mid 2000s.
 It was first meant to create the parameters for the area within which that plan was to take effect. From a functional standpoint, it does have design standards, as the name Downtown Design Overlay District suggests, that relate mostly about building materials. It doesn't necessarily speak to land uses. The land uses are controlled by the underlying zoning districts, which...
 were I find interestingly basically crafted as a result of the downtown master plan Not sure if there's anything additional that you were looking for but that's This particular property zone in scene neighborhood conservation and that's a
 I'm glad you mentioned that because there is a, you'll often hear it as a body that there's a misconception that they read conservation as some sort of ecological component to it. It was originally intended in the downtown master plan to conserve some of the single family neighborhoods that were part of the downtown master plan.
 The areas of, I believe portions of Mount Nord, this neighborhood, I think there's some areas additionally that are southwest of the library as well that were included in that. And a lot of the other area around this is, when you get down into the real,
 crux of the entertainment district is is some downtown general is that right or along Dixon is mostly Main Street Center which is downtown generals bigger sibling okay all right thank you any other questions for staff are the applicant okay let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone that would like to speak on this particular item in the chamber? Do you have anyone by Zoom? No, sir. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have, or what action would the council like to take?
 Being in Ward 2, I'm very familiar with this area. I also went to the University of Arkansas and I went away for a little while and I could see why you would want to be able to hold on to something and come back. I think the timing is really unfortunate for when you're coming forward with this proposal for myself personally. I think that we're under the pressure and we're having conversations about what we do with short-term rentals going forward.
 It is an area that has incredible accessibility to walkability to a grocery, to the school, to churches, and to entertainment. And so I know we've had a lot of conversations, too, about the fact that we are concerned that we're probably at our cap for the type twos as well, although they aren't officially licensed. And so I feel really torn that...
 I kind of in one way want to support this, but I think just knowing the overwhelming increase that I've seen in a war two in particular, stressing towards Wilson Park and into my neighborhood, it really starts to erode the character of the makeup of the neighborhood. And so I'm very concerned about accessible housing for general residents. And so for that reason, I think I'm not supportive tonight.
 Okay. Who's there? When we talk about, when you talk about accessible housing, are you talking about affordable housing? Because there is no way that this area is affordable now for most people.
 And, you know, it's unfortunate because I've lived here long enough. I remember when this was basically a little shack on the corner there. You know, so I don't know how I feel about this.
 You know, this seems like an appropriate area for short-term rental because, you know, you talk about the things that are concerning people. You know, they've got their parking passes on the street. They've got room for two cars in the driveway. But guess what? If you are in the entertainment district, you're probably going to park your car and walk to things, which is what we want people to do in this area.
 And, you know, as you're visiting, you can go down and eat at restaurants, and you can go to ONF and get some groceries and stuff like that. And you don't really have to get out and drive a lot. And hopefully if you're going to be down partying on Dixon Street, you're not going to be driving a lot. So, you know, I don't know how I feel about this, because it seems like it was just so close to passing that the, you know,
 the planning commission level i'm not sure how i feel but i don't just keeping it not allowing it to be a legally licensed str doesn't really in my book check the box that it's going to be attainable to a lot of people or affordable for housing for a lot of people unfortunately thank you
 pretty soon thank you um i kind of want to echo what sarah is saying right sir bunch is saying right here um and um
 Well, we've got two Sarahs now, so I've got to be very... Yeah, we are. But, you know, and I... The challenge is the unlicensed short-term rentals. That is our real challenge. We don't know if we're at that cap. I think we're probably pretty close. But since we don't have the data...
 Since this was probably an unlicensed short-term rental before, not because of you all, the new owners, it's really difficult to deny somebody a short-term rental right now. And the fact that we got the information on the two parking places, I found that to be very helpful and alleviated.
 that requirement that I was concerned about. So I am probably going to support this because it is in a walkable area. It meets a lot of the goals that we have as a city. And the applicant has done a really good job in presenting their case. And I would expect there to be a lot of short-term rentals in that area. The density, I'm not too worried about the density in that particular location. So thank you. All right.
 I commend the applicant for the job they did. I think that I share the same concerns with the council member more, however, that we're all in favor of type one rentals, right? We love for people to be able to say, hey, I've got some place to go and I can rent my place out for a Razorback weekend or Mardi Gras tonight or whatever. But it's very challenging to say that we're,
 pro-affordable and attainable housing and support a proliferation of type twos that pull a house out of the housing stock that someone might live in or rent and And I find that dichotomy Stressing to me that it's hard for us to honorably say both things simultaneously I want to explain while
 even though I have concerns, I can see how others could wholeheartedly support this applicant. And that is, it's a cute little bungalow, it's the right size, small footprint, takes up very little space, it's a rentable size. If you were going to have a Type 2 rental, this would be the poster child of a Type 2 rental to have. And so all of those things explain why I could see how anyone on this dais could support this.
 The people though that I represent and Ward 2 constituents have significant concerns about the healthy abundance of type 2 rentals in our ward and
 purely by our convenient location, older part of town, denser part of town in many, many ways. And so because of those concerns that are expressed to me routinely, I will have a struggle to support this one. Thank you.
 Okay. Yes. Yeah. I'm definitely supporting this because if I saw this place on Airbnb or any of the other places
 places that would look to be amazing and perfect location. And absolutely like I'm going to go spend lots of money at this town and I'll, I'm not going to disturb my neighbors when the baby's screaming at two o'clock in the morning because I have a house with four walls and it's just the perfect ideal place. And we're just going to be in there and it's going to be quiet. It's going to be wonderful. And we're going to walk. And that's the biggest thing we look for, for some sidewalks and close to downtown. So yeah,
 And I think, you know, when we do that, then we make a desirable place for people to visit. And the next thing you know, they want to also possibly move here. So I see it as a way to promote Fayetteville and the beauty and the wonderful things that we have here and attract more people to come and visit. And we're going to need a lot of places when we get the arts corridor all wrapped up. So I think this will be an awesome place for someone to stay. So I'll be supporting it. Okay.
 have I gotten public comment I don't think so okay I did I'm so sorry then I move that we approve the resolution or no I'm sorry I mean that we support this appeal yes second okay we have a motion a second to support the AP any final
 all right it is to pass a resolution which does grant the appeal with all of the conditions that the planning department has placed on them i move we approve the resolution then second all right any final comments yonder you yeah oh i saw you oh oh sir do you have something else
 oh okay care who's called the road lunch yes yes artsburg yes barbie yes jones yes or no whittaker no verna yes okay thank you all let's go on to number six
 An ordinance to rezone the properties of resumption of the petition RZN 20S053 located at 3017 West Olde Farm Road in Ward 1 for approximately 0.50 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family unit spreader to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 unit spreader. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single-family, 18 units per acre.
 on section two at the city council the city of fayetteville are considered by a men's official zoning map the city of fayetteville to reflect zoning change provided in section one okay
 Jonathan, you have this one. I do, Mayor. Thank you. This property is in Southwest Fayetteville and Ward 1. It's located just north of the intersection of One Mile Road and Martin Luther King Boulevard, the southwest corner of Old Farmington Road and One Mile Road. The property is developed with a duplex built in 1977. It currently accesses the property from Old Farmington Road itself.
 The request before the City Council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family 4 units per acre, to RSF18, residential single-family 18 units per acre.
 Staff does find this request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. While there is a fair mix of land uses in the area, including some attached residential to the northeast and a significant array of non-residential uses along MLK, this portion of Old Farmington Road is predominantly single-family homes.
 RSF 18 will allow a continuation of single-family home construction in this area, but at a greater density, which staff finds to be appropriate at the corner of an intersection that has
 what may not appear to be a great access, but upon closer inspection, you can see that the property can go immediately south of the signalized intersection at MLK and One Mile, head west to MLK and on to Farmington, or back east up to Centennial Park or Shiloh Road.
 From an adopted plan standpoint, staff found this request to be similarly complementary of our adopted plans. The future land use map calls out the area as a residential neighborhood area. This represents or is intended to support a wide range of residential uses.
 While staff may think find it to be more appropriate to possibly allow some attached residential opportunities, the density allowances in RSF 18 do allow much more flexibility than is on the property today.
 Similarly, given the property's location, in terms of transportation, it also has complimentary amenities that you find in the infill matrix, including access to nearby grocery stores, parks and trails, transit routes, and of course some basic city infrastructure in terms of water and sewer.
 uh other issues to draw your mind to or draw your attention to this will change the true canopy requirements on the property from 25 under rsf4 which is our highest in the city to 20 under rsf18
 Also, staff did take special consideration of the traffic and accident records along MLK. Again, ultimately, our support was found to be justified in the request given that signalized intersection at MLK.
 And with that in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded the proposal to City Council by a vote of eight to zero, finding that it's consistent with our adopted land use plans. To date, we received no public comment on the item. And I believe Blake Jorgensen is available as the applicant, Mayor. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? And Mayor, I'm not seeing him online either, so he may not be present.
 well what questions does the council have with the staff okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those that are participating because they will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic
 Who do you have on Zoom? No, sir. Nobody. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Well, I just want to let you guys know, I haven't heard anything. This is a very, you know, transitioning or...
 developing area. There's a lot of new homes that are small there. There's a lot happening there. There are a lot of dense homes. So I think that this is a good area for some development. There is a light and I use this road for the businesses around there and you can go either all the way to the highway to 49. I don't remember the name of that access road.
 Shiloh? No, I don't know. But there's ways to get out and in very, very safely. So I'll be supporting it as of right now. I'm very familiar with that area as well. It's close to where I live. And so I will be supporting it as well.
 oh um i think that i'll be supporting this project as well and i think it is not very complicated but i would appreciate um if the applicant would have been here so thank you okay well uh we're on the first reading this is an ordinance how would we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the role
 Fudge? Yes. Church? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Arda? Yes.
 in ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rcn 22-53 located at 3017 west old farmington road in ward 1. for approximately half an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre will we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second oh most in the second to go third and finally here which please call the right bench yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 what final comments do we have in the council i'm sure maybe he was here and then you know we had a lot of things going on at the beginning of this meeting so i'm trying not to hold that against the applicant and he's been in many many meetings many many times so i've given him the benefit of the doubt i appreciate that that's all i have okay no final comments care would you please call her thanks yes
 yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes yes yes okay let's move on number seven an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-05 located at North Bob Young can Drive and West Bishop Drive in Ward 3
 for approximately 7.76 acres from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services in RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 units per acre kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services and RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to North Fayetteville and Ward 3. It is due south of the Washington Regional Medical Center main campus. It includes properties on the west and east side of Bob Youngkin Drive, which is a former runway and, as a bit of trivia, named after a former aerobatics pilot, if you're ever looking at old aerial imagery.
 The property is currently undeveloped, but that can be deceiving. It is actually platted in the mid-2000s, and the property in question includes lots three through nine of Appleby Landing. As a part of that project, streets, water, and sewer were all installed.
 The request before council tonight is to rezone the properties on both sides of the street, albeit through two different zoning districts. The property on the west side is intended to be rezoned from the existing RO residential office designation to CS community services, and the west side from RO to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible. This is a area of fairly mixed land uses. Due south is a multifamily housing complex. To the north, again, is the myriad offices and services offered by Washington Regional. There is single family neighborhoods to the west and east, but also some attached residential neighborhoods to the northeast.
 And staff finds that the two proposed zoning districts will complement this. RO today offers or allows for buildings up to five stories, including offices, but its residential allowances are more limited to single and two-family. CS allows a full spectrum of residential housing types from single-family homes up to multifamily, in addition to more medium-scale retail and services.
 RMF 24 allows effectively the same things as CS, but none of the non-residential elements. So effectively allows single two, three, four family and multifamily dwellings.
 From a long range planning standpoint, staff finds this request to be complimentary of our future land use plan. It does call this area out as a residential neighborhood area, which may at first blush appear to conflict with the proposal for community services. However, our future land use map does make or does acknowledge that there are certain connecting streets and corners in the city where it would be appropriate to have services where it may not otherwise be a positive or compatible use next to residential areas.
 So in that sense, staff does find the request to be consistent with the future land use map. Similarly, given the wide range of medical services in the area and amenities in the form of nearby trails and parks and just a centralized location, we find it to be an appropriate infill location to allow for additional housing opportunities. This feels reflected in the moderate return
 return on the infill matrix, which includes again, the normal expected services of water and sewer, but also access to transit as well.
 Some of the issues at play, tree canopy is awash, if you will, both the existing and proposed zoning districts require 20% minimum tree canopy. The main issues here are a matter of entitlement from staff's perspective. Again, the building heights are the same, five stories. And so it may be more of a question of the appropriateness of allowing additional residential and retail service uses more than anything else.
 As for public comment, staff did not receive any up to the Planning Commission, but there were I believe it was six people who spoke at the Planning Commission with a range of concerns. Those ranged from the scale of what could be proposed. Also there were concerns about the potential for traffic and whether it'd be appropriate, whether it's having apartments or services in this area.
 I think that was a fair characterization of it. I think that captured most of what was heard. With those issues in mind and at play, staff did ultimately recommend and favor the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and contended that the proposal is consistent with our land use plans. There was comment that the addition of potential for services near residential area would have a positive impact.
 They forwarded to the City Council recommending approval. I'm sorry, there's a comment on that that says no public comment there. I apologize. That's something I left on the slide that should not be there. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. I believe Tim Briseal is here as the applicant for the item there. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening. My name is Tim Brazell. I'm the applicant as well as the developer and general contractor on this particular project. First of all, thanks to Jonathan for a very detailed summary of that and staff for their helping us navigate through this rezone opportunity. Basically, what we're requesting, the rezone will help us facilitate in the construction of a mixed-use, diverse, slightly dense multifamily community in that area.
 It's going to be 500 square feet to 1500 square foot units, one, two, three bedroom units, a mix of one and two story buildings. But the common denominator will be catering to an aging over 55 type community. We feel like that's an excellent location for it with the proximity to the medical core, transportation, trails, so on and so forth through there.
 It's a vacant piece of property. As Jonathan said, it was flat, it developed in the 2000s, currently a vacant piece of property, sat vacant for some time obviously. I feel like it is right in line with 2040 plan. It's infill, we talked a little bit earlier about affordability. That's a huge challenge as you alluded to, I mean on the national level and from a developer standpoint,
 it's got to make sense financially, or I have to get city of favor. We're talking, speaking about affordability. It's got to make sense financially, or I've got to get government subsidies or, and in order to do that, the path that we pick is I like to go towards a more dense community where I can spread that cost out across multiple units, as opposed to building larger scale, larger homes, larger, you know, that type of thing. So that's a little bit about what we're looking to do. Would be happy to answer any questions that you might have.
 okay what questions does the council have for the african our staff hud oh scott have you got uh
 Any form of design in process yet? We don't have a formal concept plan yet. We wanted to make sure we had the rezoning approval to do so before we would launch the full scale concept planning. But it will be like I said, it's going to be one and two story units. A five story unit is not real conducive to a 55 plus community.
 Okay, we've got to be a little bit careful about talking about the projects. Yeah, I was going to say that this is a zoning decision, so really I'm not supposed to ask about how it's going to be developed. I'm not really supposed to tell us. Nothing that he says about how it will be developed is enforceable at all.
 to be enforceable it has to be a bill of assurance i'm not asking you for a bill of assurance you don't need to do that you can't do that it would have to be a bill of assurance offered by the applicant if he wants to actually show you something or it'd have to be a planned uh zoning district which also can show you uh basically what's going to happen but for a regular rezoning like this it's only a zoning condition of what you know what zone are you going to put on the land and anything in that zone they can build
 So, I think that's one reason many years ago we
 had planned zoning districts and they were very popular for a long time. They were. And that's so everybody could see what was going to be built there. But unfortunately, after 2008, 2009, a lot of them didn't get built. So, and they're very expensive to do because you got to do a lot of engineering for that. And so now we're back to more standard developments or zonings. And then the development goes to the Planning Commission.
 has to be a large-scale development or preliminary flat or something like that so the planning commission gets to see all that and the city council generally does not unless there's an appeal
 I appreciate that kid. The reason I asked that question is, uh, I was asked by some of the residents, uh, surrounding that area to meet with them. And one of their main concerns was what they felt was secrecy about what was actually going there. And you know, as a property owner, I would, you know, I'd be a little uneasy too, if I didn't know what was going there. So that was the reason for my question, if we can,
 you know, work with them to try to ease their minds a little bit. Maybe this, you know, smooths the process out a little bit. And totally agree. And that is, I mean, I understand that how secrecy was not, that's not our motivation by any means. It was to try to, it was an economics decision to just, let's save money before we invest a tremendous amount on not knowing how the, what the outcome of the rezone was. Although it is like Jonathan said, I mean, you're talking about an RO
 has a five-story cap just like the CS does. You know, it's not that different. I mean, it is, it's a different use, but as far as the, from a neighbor's standpoint. And like Mr. Williams said, it's,
 Anything that we do, there was also some concerns, I guess, about drainage and different things that they brought up. Any of that will be addressed at the large scale before planning commission as well. And the reason that we picked the CS zoning, this is a long, linear piece of property that, from my standpoint, from a developer standpoint, okay, well, how do I create some interest in this landing strip that it used to be? And the CS zoning allows the most flexibility. Yes, it is a very dense, has the five stories.
 Our intention is not that it's just to be creative with how we lay this out so that we get the best possible Community well, I know we can't specifically discuss use but because you brought it up I really appreciate the fact that you have in mind the the older population When considering this development, I think that helps mitigate my last decision, so I appreciate it. Thank you Anything else okay? Well, let's take some public comment. Yeah, everybody gets one turn to speak and
 you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anybody in the chamber that would like to speak on this issue okay so he's now anybody on zoom okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 What's the discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I think we have the luxury on this one of a pre-existing street while we have another long and skinny site to develop, which was unfortunate.
 that the other previous property didn't have same ownership on both sides. My only concern is that the applicant glanced at me when he said that he was developing for an older community that would be near a medical facility, and I was offended by that look, but I still find the project supportable. I'm glad he didn't look at me. We're talking about ancient communities. But anyway, Sarah. I did, you know, I wanted to...
 of the things that Scott said, because I talked to one of the same people that he talked to, only I talked to him today, and I'm surprised that he did not. Of course, he may have gone to bed by now, but oh, he left. Because I didn't get to meet him in person. I gave him, I told him he had the option of contacting Zoom, you know, doing the hybrid meeting or doing it in person.
 You know, and I understand that people don't want to stay out this late, but that was the concern that he addressed. He said he wasn't opposed to development. He just, everybody always just wants to know what it is, you know, and that's the concern that they have. And I told him exactly what,
 Kith just described that, well, this is a rezoning width. Look at the land and not the use, because once it's rezoned, anything that's in that, that any of those acceptable uses could go in there. And, but anyway, I think this is a good location for development, you know, 55 or otherwise, but it is kind of a long, skinny area.
 and anything that they can put in there. Since it was a landing strip at one time, it doesn't have a whole lot of trees on it except around the fence lines, and they're probably maybe not the best trees, but I think this could be something that could be developed very nicely and be interesting to see how it turns out. Scott? In meeting with the...
 the surrounding property owners, you know, I told them you're kind of in a catch 22 cause you're, it's already zoned RO. So you really couldn't prevent development and that's not their intent. Again, it goes back to, I think it was the perceived secrecy of it that concerned them. And I kind of conveyed to them,
 that they were skeptical of the senior living. And I came down on the other side. I said, you know, it seems to me like a logical place to put it close to a hospital. So, and healthcare. What are y'all giggling about? That makes me feel better. I hope you feel better about that. I looked over this way. I looked over this way.
 So I generally think this is a good project. I would ask out of respect for them because I did see them here earlier and I think we beat them into submission. I think they left. I would ask if we could hold it. And I would be more than willing to facilitate a meeting with
 you and the neighbors that were concerned because they were very reasonable. They just kind of wanted to know what the situation was, just like anyone would. So I'm more than willing to do that if you'd like, but I would like to see if we could hold it just to make sure we can get some clarification. I think that sounds like a good idea. Since this is a change in this neighborhood, it buds up against two neighborhoods.
 it's such an odd piece of property there it butts up against two existing neighborhoods of various ages yeah i i appreciate you sharing about anything that can be developed in that zone we have had some folks come in here shows us some really nice pictures of what is going to go in there but they don't get built because as long as they fit within the zoning
 And it can be an entirely different style. And I'm not saying just that. Carla Hayden, No. And when I talked to the, I forgot what the guy's name was. But when I talked to him today, that's exactly what I told him. I said, if you get a drawing now, it's going to be conceptual.
 Yes. It's only conceptual. And you can, you know, anybody can put together a drawing now, but it's not, may not end up being looking like that. That's at the large scale development sites. We've all been here for that. We've all been, we've all been there. So anyway, but. Okay. But you want to hold it on this reading?
 Do you want to? Let's move it to the second. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Sounds good. Can we have a motion to go to the second? I'll make a motion to go to the second reading. And I'll second that. All right. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay we'll hold it right here an ordinance to rezone that property described and rezoning petition RZ n 22-55 located at North Bob Duncan Drive and West Bishop Drive in Ward 3 for approximately 7 and 3 quarters acres and
 from RO residential office to CS community services and RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Okay. Let's move on to number eight. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-019, properly located at 2231 West Markham Road in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility's kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 The easement to be vacated contains an active water line, fire hydrant, and meters. The new water line, fire hydrants, and meters shall be installed, accepted by the city, and placed into service within new easements that shall be dedicated before this vacation takes effect. And two, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 4, west of the main University of Arkansas campus.
 is currently developed with what is commonly maybe recognized as the Pratt Place Inn and the associated event barn. It's at the western end of Markham Road. And in 2018, this property and the surrounding area were part of a zoning action by city council that entitled this piece specifically for additional hospitality development, more specifically including cabins, hotel expansion, and expansion to the event center.
 Subsequently, in 2020, a large-scale development was approved with these elements. And in 2022, just last year, there was a further large-scale approval for some additional elements, including a private drive and some public infrastructure.
 A next step in the development process is to vacate an easement within which is an existing water line and hydrant that serves the Pratt Place Inn.
 As Mr. Williams noted in the conditions of approval, that active line and hydrant are the main issue of concern with this easement compared to some that don't have any infrastructure within them. As a result, as part of staff's recommendation for approval here, we do have that as a condition that the new water lines or that the old water line meters and hydrants be abandoned and the new water line be approved by the city, installed and accepted prior to the finalization of this easement.
 Otherwise, staff has received all the appropriate or required consents from the franchise utilities that have a right to the easement, and we're recommending in favor of it. I'm happy to take any questions, and Jay Young is here as the applicant for this item, Mayor. Thank you. Jay Young Yes. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Council members, thank you. This will be much quicker and shorter than our previous round. This is going to be an easier sell, I think. I think so. This one is, has already been reviewed and approved as part of the large-scale development and it's kind of a technicality to come to this point and take the ordinance, get the ordinance approved.
 we will already have a contractor who is starting the correct procedures to get in place to begin the process of removing the existing water line and relocating it so that it will complete the conditions of approval i'm happy to answer any questions if you have any what questions do we have for the app rstat okay let's take some public comment everybody has one term to speak
 One turn to speak. Got a little election thing in there, didn't it? All right. Everybody has one turn to speak. Five minute duration. Engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on top. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. And those participating by Zoom speak after that. Well, I don't believe we have anyone in the chamber, do we? Nobody on Zoom. All right. Let's bring it back.
 This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? I believe we should suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Garrett, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Vernon? Yes. In order to approve the AC 22-19 for property located at 2231 West Markham Road in Ward 4, to vacate a portion of the utility easement. I move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 bunch yes her yes hertzberg yes harvey yes jones yes or yes yes yes the new artist approved vac 22-19 for property located at 2231 west markham road in ward 4 to vacate a portion of a utility easement any final comments from the council say none care would you please call the road bench yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Moving along to number nine, an ordinance to approve vacation 22-028 property located at 1074 East St. Street Ward 3 to vacate a portion of the utility easement and a portion of a grading easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of utility easement and grading easement are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a utility easement and a portion of the grading easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as a give-it-a to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the developer's expense. Number 2, any new utility easements to serve LSD
 2022-06 must be coordinated when the Master Street Plan right-of-way is established. Number three, a 20-foot wide easement must be retained and approved by the Utilities Department for any existing sanitary sewer. Number four, approval and issuance of a grading permit in association with LSD 2022-06.
 for the and number five the amount of one hundred and twenty seven thousand five hundred dollars shall be paid to the city of Fayetteville as reimbursement for the original cost paid for the grading easements being vacated Jonathan Thank You mayor
 This request is in North Fayetteville. It includes a few disparate pieces of property that border the new extension of Sain Street as it comes southward from Joyce and connects back to Frontage, or Front Street, excuse me, near Panera, if you're familiar with that, and the University of Arkansas Satellite Campus. The request includes two parts, the first of which is a
 Utility easement vacation request. This includes for just over a tenth of an acre of a remnant utility easement that was associated with the previously existing stub out for Sain Street before the road was realigned as a part of its extension eastward across Mud Creek to Joyce.
 The second piece is a little bit more complicated. This includes four pieces of grading easement that were acquired by the city from the existing property owner for the purposes of the Sainte Street extension.
 The city did pay for those, and as a result, that's one of the main issues in consideration with this. A condition of the approval, as Mr. Williams noted, is that we will be paid back the cost of those easements as a part of this conditioning of this easements vacation.
 Additionally, there are several other conditions of approval that you probably heard rattled off. Those largely revolve around a project that's being proposed on the property right now for several multifamily buildings under the description of LSD 22-6. That's a large scale development.
 As a part of their development, it's being worked out where easements exactly would need to be, and we wanted to ensure that that was captured in this exchange of land or this transition of land out of use as easement and future land needed for use as easement.
 But with that in mind, staff did receive the required consents from all franchise utilities. And again, as a quick rundown of those conditions, there's a standard boilerplate one, noting that damage or relocation to any existing utilities is at the applicant or developer's expense.
 The easements in association with that large scale development are going to be required in association with our master street plan. So again, as Sainte Street goes through the property, easements are usually taken off of those rights away. Also that this vacations approval is subject to the grading permits approval. If the grading, if the project does not move forward, staff does not want these easements to be relinquished until a future project comes through.
 And also there is a sanitary sewer line to the south of this area where the utility department did note that they want to maintain coverage, easement coverage for that as well. And lastly, again, the $127,500 reimbursement for the grading easement that the city purchased for the St. Street extension.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe George Duquesne is here as the representative for the applicant. He's attending online, it appears. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Go ahead, Mr. Duquesne.
 that's good you should be able to hear me now yeah yeah yeah we are as jonathan mentioned we are trying to get a grading permit for a apartment complex associated with lsd 2022-6 and as part of it there were some existing great easements that were put in place for the same street extension that uh will be required once our project is actually complete and uh all the
 All the dirt work has been completed. The three-to-ones will no longer be in existence after we have completed our work. So, yes, we are asking for a utility easement vacation and grading easement vacation along those lines. Okay. What questions do we have for the app and our staff and the council? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber, not too many, are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that, those of you that are awake. All right. I see no one in the chamber. Susan, do you have anyone on Zoom? No one's on Zoom, Mayor. No one there. You lost her.
 Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So sad. We are on the first reading. It is an ordinance. What action would you all like to take or what discussion would you all like to have? We'll suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second. Go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Verna? Yes. In order to approve VAC 22-28 for property located at 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3, to vacate a portion of utility easement and a portion of a grading easement.
 and we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the roll bench yes turd yes artsburg yes rb yes
 Jones yes more yes we did her yes Erna yes in orange approved the AC 22-28 for property located at 1074 East Sain Street and Ward 3 to vacate a portion of utility easement and a portion of a grading easement and let me say this is a very unusual vacation because most times the easement or the right away has been dedicated to the city we received it free of charge as part of the development
 You never get paid for that if we vacate it. In this particular case, I'm glad that planning looked at this very carefully and saw that we just bought this, and so we owned it.
 And that when they need it back, or they're not, may even be the same person, but anyway, now that they want it vacated, it is legitimate for us to get our money back for the amount we paid for it. But you won't see that in very many vacations. I can't remember the last one that we actually got paid for. So I congratulate you for doing that because that's really fair. That's right. Thank you, Jonathan.
 for taking us on that unusual vacation. If you see our land agents, tell them thank you. Take the rest of the night off. And Jonathan, you're a lawyer, who gets a third of that? Yes, indeed. We're all coming apart here, aren't we? If you care, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 sir yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes or yes yes burner yes all right number 10 an ordinance to approve vacation 22-029 prop located at 1074 east sainz street in ward 3. weren't we just there to vacate a portion of a street right away kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a street right-of-way as described in exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the developer's expense. Number 2, any utility easements to serve LSD facilities.
 2022-06 must be coordinated when the master street plan right-of-way is established. Number three, a 20-foot wide easement must be retained and approved by the Utilities Department for any existing sanitary sewer. And number four, this vacation shall be subject to approval and issuance of a grading permit and associated with LSD 2022-06. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This takes us to the exact same piece of property, so I won't spend a lot of time describing it. But instead of discussing easements for the site, we're discussing about a tenth of an acre of public right-of-way. In the same vein as the last request, however, this represents a remnant or relic piece of right-of-way that is no longer necessary, no longer being used for the public interest, given the Sainte Street realignment and extension eastward and back north across Mud Creek to
 You can see here that the blue highlighted below encapsulates a little bit of extra area, but I didn't have a way of pulling just this piece to show you a little bit more clearly. If you can imagine the upper right-hand corner of what you see in that blue highlighted area is what's encapsulated in the survey drawing that you see above it.
 As far as issues go, again, should be no surprise, this is an association with that large-scale development. Again, we have the same concerns as the last one, making sure that as these rights-of-way and easements change hands, that they're adequately being accommodated with the project's approval. But perhaps more interestingly is, and to complicate things, is staff does have a couple
 Additional conditions that we'd like to recommend be included with this request, and that includes that as a part of the approval that the developer install two bus shelters on pads that have been installed by the city and university through their projects.
 The applicant has indicated being amenable, or the developer's representative has indicated that they're amenable to this during public hearings and some correspondence with our engineering division. So we're comfortable recommending this be included as conditions of approval with this request.
 And then the last piece that makes this one unusual is wanting to make sure that it's enshrined in this request, that a small piece of land is conveyed back to the city roughly in the area you see in red here, which can potentially accommodate a extension in the future of North Hemlock. If you recall something that Mr. Brown, the public works director, described to you all at the beginning,
 The last agenda session, sorry, making sure I got my dates right, as a part of the Millsap realignment coming east from College Avenue, there's a proposal to have Millsap run into Hemlock, which would bring the street network back up north to the Sain Street extension. This small piece of land, as insignificant as it appears, would help accommodate that when that project does come forward.
 So, with all that in mind, staff does recommend approval with the conditions that Mr. Williams outlined, but also two additional pieces, one to accommodate the two standard bus shelters and also to transfer the two one-hundredths of an acre of land to the southeast corner of the roundabout to the city.
 And with that, I am available for any questions. And I believe Mr. Duquesne is also, oh, I'm sorry. And because this was a right away item, this did go to the planning commission and did have public notification. There was no public comment and the request, but the commission so at ease that they did forward it on their consent agenda. And I'm happy to take questions, thank you.
 So, Jonathan, you want conditions five and six as stated with the two bus stops for condition number five to this? As number five, yes, Mr. Williams, and then a sixth one that the large-scale development shall provide an executed deed to the city transferring that piece of property I showed on screen. So, we need an amendment to that and you'll send me that wording in the morning, right?
 So we need to amend it to what Jonathan has asked for. I move we amend to Jonathan's request. Second. Okay. So we're going to, in the amendment, add another bus stop? Yeah, two bus stops. That's number five, that they're going to provide two bus stops. Is that all right, Jonathan? And then number six is...
 That's correct. Yeah, number five would be that the large scale development shall procure and install two bus shelters for the cities and University of Arkansas standard on the already installed bus stop concrete paver pads. And six would be the same LSD number shall provide an executed deed to the city transferring property at the southeast corner of the roundabout as shown in the exhibit in your packet at no cost to the city. Thank you. Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll?
 This is on the amendment. Yes. Tarrick? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berner? Yes. The ordinance is amended. Okay. Mayor, Mr. Duquesne is available as the representative. Yes, I started to say we need to get the applicant.
 Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Go ahead, Mr. DeCain. All right. Unmuted. Everybody should hear me now. Okay.
 Again, this is a right-of-way vacation. This was part of the original St. Street, which was never built. There was supposed to have been a roundabout and a couple of different components. This was just an extra piece of land that was outside of what was required for the Master Street plan. So we've negotiated with the city. We talked to them about it. And we understand all the conditions, and we are amenable to accepting all the conditions as requested by planning staff.
 Is there any questions for the applicant or staff on this one? No? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anyone on Zoom? Yes, sir.
 Nobody on Zoom and nobody wants to talk to us. All right. I'm going to show the rules and go to the second reading. All right. Circuit. Not going away from my little spiel, do you? All right. We have a motion to go to the second reading. I'm sorry, Karen, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes more yes we occur yes burn up yes in order to prove the AC 22-29 or property located at 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a street right away movies to spend the rolls go to the third final reading second we have a motion the second you go to the third and following who gave the second
 I thought I did well okay you can have all the credit all right we have a motion second go to the third and final read here would you please call the roll yes yes Hertzberg yes Harvey
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedecker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. And the ordinance approved DAC 22-29 for property located at 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of the street right of way. And if you think this is a fun time, just wait to, for the new members, wait till after midnight. It really gets good then. Our first meeting was 1015, Kit, so I think we're not going to hit that hopefully.
 This ain't much here. We can do a lot better than this. Yeah. Okay. No final comments. Please call the roll. Bunch. Yes. Heard. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Verna. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, that concludes our business tonight. Is there any announcements? I have one, Mayor. We have one more week until the Environmental Stewardship Award nominations are closed. So a week from tomorrow, the deadline for the Environmental Action Committee.
 Anything else, Mr. Whitaker? And the Chancellor of the University of Arkansas is speaking at the library tomorrow night at 6.30. Yes, he is. And I encourage anyone who has time available to attend. He'll do a great job. Yep, he will. I'll see you there.
 i have i have one last thing okay um this is the uh friday is the deadline to turn in your applications for volunteer boards and committees and planning commission so if you're thinking about applying for anything or you know any council members know someone good who might be up for that tell them and have them get their applications in by friday thanks we have award one meeting on march 2nd at six
 Okay, thanks to you all. We're adjourned. Check.