I would like to call the city council meeting for February 20, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray. President. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddie. Here. Lieutenant. Here. Funch. Here. Latour. Present. Smith. Here. Mayor Jordan. I'm here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the February 6, 2018 City Council Meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a short-term lease agreement with Missy Gibson for the Drakefield Terminal Building banquet area for rent in the amount of $400. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing HAZMAT services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $2,305 and increasing the related expense budget.
 Number four a resolution award bid number 18-16 that authorized purchase of two 12-foot wide prefabricated bridges from our Thurlson incorporated of Waterford, Michigan in total amount of seventy nine thousand dollars plus taxes To replace two existing five foot wide bridges in Gully Park number five
 resolution to approve an agreement with the Southwest with Southwest Electric Power Company to participate in an energy efficiency rebate program and accept an incentive rebate in the amount of fourteen thousand six hundred sixty four dollars and sixty cents to improve budget adjustment number six
 A resolution to approve task order number six with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $25,140 for the repair of flood damage to the stream restoration project at Sweetbriar Park. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $18,000 recognizing parkland dedication fees
 from the northeast quadrant to be used to upgrade the water line and plumbing at the veterans park restroom facility number eight a resolution authorized the mayor to sign a memorandum of agreement with the university of arkansas to provide half of the funding for a bicycle and pedestrian coordinator position with the total amount paid by the city not to exceed thirty thousand dollars number nine a resolution to approve
 and certify the participation of our pharma llc in the arkansas tax back program and to agree to authorize the arkansas department of finance administration to refund city sales tax back to our pharma llc for qualified purchases number 10 a resolution to change the name of west mcclure way to west mcclure away and to change the name of west xander drive to west anthem drive
 And number 11, a resolution to repeal resolution number 40-18 and authorize the purchase of a 2018 Dodge Ram from Steve Landers Chrysler Dodge Jeep of Little Rock in the amount of $26,971 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Mark? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yes marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes kenneth yes yes yes yes okay thank you all under unfinished business we have one item an ordinance to rezone that property describing rezoning petition rzn 17 dash 60 34 for approximately 4.40 acres located at 2468 north crossover road from our
 RSF to residential single-family two units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general This was left on the first reading. I will entertain most of the second reading Okay, I guess Adela so move John second murder we have a motion a second to go to the second read with the neighbor, please put the motion in in the second
 very good you all thank you you're very welcome so would you please call the roll ray yes marsh yes union yes eddie yes tenant yes yes yes yes yes yes
 ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 17-6034 for approximately 4.4 acres located at 2468 north crossover road from rsf2 residential single family two units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general okay garner you have anything new on this yeah yes mayor and council um i did get a call from the applicant mr jones this morning
 and he wishes to change the request to Neighborhood Services Limited. Mr. Jones is here if you have any questions for him. Mr. Jones, would you like to speak to the council, please? Is everybody hearing me okay out there? Okay. Yes. Well, very briefly, Mr. Mayor, yes, I did call Mr. Stull today, and I'm...
 i would like to uh again lower this um rezoning to neighborhood services limited i believe it's a uh a fair uh compromise and i believe it would be fair to to all my neighbors involved and um i believe it is i believe it's something that it's soft and it can work for this district thank you okay any questions for mr jones on this
 Okay, Gar you might explain what that means exactly neighborhood services limited. What is the difference and mayor the The primary difference is in the size of the buildings that can be constructed by right the Neighborhood services general would allow a building of up to 8,000 square feet neighborhood services limited and
 The buildings are restricted to services, personal services is at 1500, retail is at 2000 and offices are at 3000. Both districts allow a variety of basically the same uses, both mixed use residential and commercial uses. Okay. So.
 I get the size of the buildings, what about height? The heights are the same. It's three stories now. The existing zone is three stories too.
 Yes. I think the first thing I need to do is make sure we have an amendment to change it to that before we get into too much discussion or do we continue on? I think that probably would be appropriate. There could be public discussion ahead of time, but I think most of the public would probably rather see a less dense request anyway. Well, but I'd get public comment on that before we voted on the amendment anyway is my way of thinking. So what's the council's wishes?
 Okay. Sarah? I move that we amend the request from Neighborhood Services General to Neighborhood Services Limited as per the applicant's request. Okay. Kyle? I'll have a second. Okay. Very good. Sandra, would you? Well, I guess before we ask, what public comment do we have on the amendment? Sorry. Now I'm getting ahead of myself. And this is only for the amendment to make it less. For the amendment. Yes. Make it less. It's a, it's a, it's a
 downgrading from more to less something like that yes and I want to make sure everybody knows this is not a vote to to rezone it to that this is just taking the general off the table and then putting it and then having a discussion
 whether this is the right in general or not. All this is doing is tweaking it from general to limited and then starting the conversation. We're just having the discussion on the amendment and then we get to the rezoning if the amendment passes. So what I'm trying to do is there any other comments on the amendment? Okay I'm going to bring back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Correct? Any discussion on it from the council?
 All right, Sondavich, please call the roll. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingen? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Fletcher? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now it's been changed to Neighborhood Services Limited. Okay, what questions do we have for the council on that one? Anything? Anything?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turns microphone. Everybody gets to talk five minutes Keep your comments directed to me don't engage anybody from the City Council or anybody in the audience and stay on topic Let's see I leave anything as you don't get any more extra time to get one turn to Michael as councilmember brings you up to ask you Questions and we haven't really defined how long that can go on here yet, but I'm sure we will in time so
 Who would like to be first? Everybody got all that? Hello. My name is Paul Henry. I live at 2885 East Township. I represent Edenbrook POA. I came to oppose the rezoning request. I have concerns for safety. Safety was a concern at the planning commission when they passed this up because they were concerned about the high rate of traffic. I feel like it's a concern straying from the vision of 2030, a fable, because this is guidance is for this to be residential.
 I'm also concerned about the side effects or domino effect of spot zoning. I think one of the reasons that the services changed from residential is because there's an isolated piece of land just to the north of his that gives credence for a zoning change because of spot zoning and the fact that there's lack of a clear plan for the development of this area. As I previously mentioned, this is a residential. I have safety concerns about the rate of speed. There were changes.
 Changing the zone to increase the use to office or residential limited increases this safety concerns exponentially. There's more traffic in and out and that's if we have safety for our children because this is very close to the school zone. Again it's strained from the 2030 plan. The guidance is to keep this residential. I already mentioned the side effects of spot zoning and the trickle down domino effect that we're potentially seeing.
 Mr. Jones wants to maximize his land price. I support him trying to maximize it, but I have concerns about we have a lack of a clear plan on how to develop this. I think there are other avenues that should be investigated with easements or other development type issues because it would be a perfect area for a residential area. But once we start with other services, I think you get away from the vision of 2030. Yes, you sure can.
 One other question, I may ask the City Attorney a question real quick. You mentioned the neighboring properties. I know you are not actually, you are across township from there. But from a neighboring, from an actual touching of the property's perspective.
 Kit, can I ask this question? There's been a lot of comments about we should leave this zoning alone until such time that the property on the south and the property on the east comes up for sale at some point because then you would have a complete area of developable land.
 I guess my question is, is that something that we should consider or is there precedent, is there legal issues with making a zoning while only making assumptions on future areas that surround that piece of zoning or that surround that area? Well, each zoning should certainly stand on its own and there are many things that the City Council can consider like spot zoning as was mentioned.
 and and safety and of course i always believe that the most important part of zoning is compatibility with the adjoining and abutting and nearby neighborhood um but it really i think the property owner is entitled to some sort of judgment of the city council on his zoning request
 Now, it could be to deny it or it could be to approve it. It could be to amend it. But really, it probably shouldn't just be postponed until some indefinite time in the future when something else might occur. I think that is not anything I've seen ever recognized by the Arkansas Supreme Court as a valid zoning consideration. There are many things to consider, but I don't think that's one. And, of course, also the 2030 plan is another thing that you consider. Thank you.
 Okay, because there's a lot of conversation around the access from Township and the only place to access from Township would be the other properties which are currently not for sale and still have residential, they still have people living there. So Mr. Henry, given the fact that, this is not a fact, this is my opinion, I do think this will be developed at some point in time, whether all of it is or just this piece.
 But if it's left residential, I don't believe that single family residential will ever work in this piece because it's been sitting there for years and no one wants it as single family residential because it's too close to 265 in my opinion. So what would you suggest if you say leave it residential, what density do you think is acceptable there? Just your opinion on that piece of land. What density levels would you like to see there? Okay.
 If it stays residential. I mean I think it would be a higher density than what it is, but I think the access needs to change because our safety concern is that off of 265 it's a danger to anything. Yeah. And I think that's why Mr. Jones is having trouble in the future, which maybe we can't consider, but
 2030 payable guidance gives us assets to look at the future. How do we best develop this? Sure. I think with some easements or some acquisitions or then if that could come together then you could have access off a township that would allow a difference. So the 265 potentially becomes a backyard instead of a front yard and then you've changed your thing. There's some pure speculation on my part, but it seems to be a better use
 of that area has less of a negative impact on safety. Again, it's speculation. I think pushing for it, he needs a decision. But I don't think that, and I champion him developing that land, but with no plan for anything other than let's change, and when we looked at the things, whether it was general for 8,000 square feet or limited, whatever, it was just there's a lot of moving parts that aren't clear.
 And without that clarity, I would ask that we don't go forward, not to hinder him, but to allow for a better plan to be put together. And it is hindering him, but again, it's a bad plan.
 okay sarah yes i have a question mr mayor do you want to have a question for staff that should i ask it now or should i wait you can ask anything okay okay uh mr henry you brought up the issue of you don't have to make it sorry you brought up the issue of there's no clear plan for the property right now as far as with with dealing with the city the question i have for staff is it
 Is this a typical rezoning in that request that we do not have a plan, a development plan proposed at this time or is this abnormal in that sense? That's my question for staff. Is this pretty common or? This is normal with the exception of the planned districts. The planned districts do require some overall scheme for development of the property. Okay. Thank you.
 I might add that we have traditionally tried to make sure that development discussion was not a part of a rezoning discussion because the use of the land is what you're making a decision on, not what is going to be built on it. It's whether the uses are appropriate and we've been advised by our city attorney numerous times to make sure that we don't mix those two. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Does that answer your question about why we?
 don't have a plan for the development yet. So they could be done together, but they could be done separately. So thank you. OK. Justin. And I'll just say this too, which again, this is speculation, but traffic is most certainly possibly going to be an issue.
 if you can say most certainly possibly yeah but the traffic is going to be an issue regardless of what goes in there as i look at the property to the east and the south even if you leave it the current houses per acres and you and you basically take candlewood and just pick it up and put it and there's enough room to basically replicate it on those areas even if we were to wait
 You're probably looking at 30 plus houses those houses Triple car garages average probably at least four cars a household. That's 120 cars Coming in and out of the only place they could come in and out of would be the current driveway of the runnels property So this is not going to eliminate traffic no matter what we do I say that ironically is the person stands up on the podium and
 who knows a lot about this property. But that becomes the only place I could see where there would be access unless you come out where Mr. Jones' property is. That would have to be all three of these working together with one commonality. And I don't know that that's ever going to happen. So I just don't want people to think that this stops traffic and this stops the problem. The traffic's already really bad there at 8 o'clock and 3 o'clock. I mean, at every single day.
 That's why we need more east-west connectivity, which is a conversation for another day. But for right now, I just want everybody to think about that a minute. If we did have the ability of timing and we could control timing, and two families, three families put their homes up at the same time, and one developer came in with a grand plan and put in 30 plus big houses to sell them,
 30 plus $700,000 homes is still going to have a lot of traffic coming out of one spot, especially at 8 o'clock and 3 o'clock. So there's a lot more to the issue of traffic on that road that I think needs to be dealt with, not just whether or not to come right in, right out, out of 265. But I just wanted to sort of point that out. My name is Ted Runnels. I'm sorry, I didn't catch you. Ted Runnels. Our family is the East.
 I agree with Justin. I mean, it is a zoo out there and I'm hearing a lot of accidents. I'm hearing honking. It's already congested and I couldn't imagine the redirection, which seems like it'd be in place with people coming up.
 The main point, I would say, would be we'd be open to selling some of that to try and make it residential on the back side. It'd be on the north side there. There was a little cut through that connected into Candlewood at the beginning. I remember they were telling Dad that, and I saw it on a little map. It kind of goes in between two driveways.
 uh on the map i don't know if it's still there can you see that justin is that the connection you're talking about from firewood uh from candlewood right about in the north well yeah it's actually off firewood drive though right okay yeah there there's an i may need somebody to clarify this but there's a dedicated street or an old street that was never built before that
 Isn't that correct? Am I thinking of that wrong, or does the city know what I'm talking about? Let's see if Andrew can answer that question. There is a platycratic way from Firewood to the north. It's in between two houses. It has not been built as a street, but the legal access point is there for the Reynolds property. I can't point to which one it is. There's one, two, three houses right there on the bend at Firewood.
 I think it's one of those, correct? Isn't that where the access is? More to the right. Yeah, that's correct, right where the mouse is, right in that area. So the original idea was to attach Candlewood to some sort of access out to Township here? Is that what that was for? I don't know. No, it was just another way to get out. It was just another way to get out before Candlewood was there.
 But we can't build it now because there's a house there. No, there's not a house there. There's just a driveway. It's just a space. It might be inconvenient for the people that have the driveways on the sides now, but there's still space there. I was wanting that to be known, but we'd definitely like for it to be residential, if anything.
 try and cut off some property to help that. And your driveway, Mr. Reynolds, is your parents' driveway is down on the, yeah, there's the house, and then the only access you have to Township goes out to Township from there. Correct. Right. Just making sure everybody follows. That's right. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? My name is Ted Wade. Okay.
 I also live in Englewood, which is directly south of the property we're discussing. One of the concerns along with the traffic flow issue that I have is that we have a private driveway in Englewood that allows us to access our property off of Township. And even today we have people when they make that turn there and they want to go back,
 North on 265 will use our driveway to cut through and drop off and come back through My concern is is that we're going to have more of that with this situation because people are going to want to not go all the way down into the Candlewood or the Vandergriff access and make a u-turn or go back around and come back and they will use our private Drive
 Okay, so with that happening, do I put up a sign and say private drive and will that keep people out? I don't believe it will. They'll ignore the sign and drive through.
 from a city standpoint, do I have the option with the POA to put up a gate there to keep people from accessing my asphalt driveway that our POA pay to keep up? And the answer to that is probably not without some support. So I'd like for you to consider this and that because you're going to have a lot of traffic coming down my private drive when
 with my grandchildren out there playing, trying to make a UE to get back up on Tix 265. So I just add that to the concerns relative to traffic flow and safety. I will also comment that, and I appreciate the concerns with Mr. Jones in trying to get some sort of return of his investment on his property. I'm a small business owner, I understand that. I've had real estate property for investment purposes.
 But at the same time, you know, we have to also be concerned for our property values as well. Do all of us pay a price by our property values diminishing in order to support commercial so that he has the ability to serve his property?
 And I don't think the needs of the one outweigh the needs of the many. Now, that being said, I think there's possibility here for compromise if we could have the time maybe for all parties to include that corner property, the Taylor property, to maybe address the possibility of a residential development there by flipping the property back.
 to where it faces not out on 265, but faces on the street that you could cut through parallel to the Reynolds property. And I just throw that out for conversation because I believe you have to step back and look at all of this in a whole, not in just one piece. Thank you. Can I ask a question? Yeah, you can. The road that he's talking about
 I don't know if that's an official city street or not. Can anybody answer that? So just so everybody knows, the fear is people are going to come from the north on 265 and they're going to turn if there was anything here. It doesn't matter what it is. Okay.
 No, no, no. Whatever it is, to access it, there's two ways to access it. You can either come down and do a U-turn right here and go in, or you can do what a lot of people already do and there's nothing there, which is turn left into Township, then take those people's access road, which is really the road to their driveways, and go down and then go to the end of that street and then turn left back onto Township and then right at 265.
 So, what are our rules if that's not a city street, what is keeping them from putting a gate up? They could, couldn't they? It's their driveway, right? We do have laws against gated subdivisions. In this case, it's just a private driveway, so I don't see an issue with putting a gate across their own driveway. I mean, it's three houses. Right. And it's not, but that's not really, it's the access road to their driveway. Does that make a difference?
 I'd probably have to read through the fine print of that code, but I think the intent of the code is to prevent gated communities like gated neighborhoods and gated apartment complexes, things like that. People have put gates on properties for their own private driveways and things like that. That's been allowed in this case. It's it sounds like it's just two or three houses. It's not like they're getting up a whole subdivision because they still all have public street access as well.
 So just, I mean, and I don't know that they will. There is something to be said for, this is not people that want to shield themselves for the rest of the world. There really is a traffic problem in that access road because if you don't do that, then you have to go down into Candlewood and spin around their little,
 whatever that is at the end they have where their sign is up, or you turn in and whip around. I've seen people whip around in the U-turn on the street that goes to Vandegrift Elementary School, which is dangerous because kids walk on that sidewalk. So I'm just throwing that out there because I wanted to make sure that we knew what the legal requirements
 ramifications were and i and i'm guessing the fire department would need access if they needed ever to get in there to turn into a house but there's only three houses so well the fire department will get in there if they need to right chief well i don't yeah i don't doubt it but i just want to make sure that that all the all the t's are crossed but anyway i wanted to throw that out there i don't know if that makes a difference it might
 It might or it might not for those three homes, but there is a safety factor there with that particular road being used as a turnaround. And logic would dictate it would be used for a turnaround more if anything went in there, whether it was residential or retail or anything else. So thank you very much.
 over to we will research that because there are many neighborhoods in the city where they were not built to the residential street standards that were done as private drives we identified a lot of those during the ice storm because we were prohibited from cleaning up up on those streets if you'll remember they do have
 they don't allow it to be gated off, as Andrew talked about, an entire subdivision. For instance, Salem Village has a lot of roads in that area that were built under a private street standard, but they cannot be blocked because of public access and public safety response. So it really depends on the number of households accessed as to whether it can be gated. CHRIS RODGERS, JR.: Well, in this particular spot,
 There can't be any more homes. So, I mean, it'll never get more dense because there's no more room there. It's just, you know, three large houses. And it may be able to be done as a driveway versus those. I just don't want other subdivisions who have private roads thinking that they can throw a gate up now because we do have rules against it. If somebody could research the issues with that and if that's something that we bring or if that's something that gets done, I would appreciate that.
 thank you very much thank you mayor for that we look into that it's an interesting actually an interesting question who else would like to address this on this okay i'm going to bring you back to the council all right then sarah i'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading we have a second on that john i'll say the next okay
 We have a motion and a second to go on to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Mark? Yes. Kenyon? No. Betty? Yes. Bennett? No. Ben? No. LeCure? Yes. Yes. No. Now that fails. Okay. I guess we'll leave it right here. All right, I will. All right.
 I see no point in continuing on. We'll wait another two weeks. Or do you all want to get into some more lengthy discussion? Or what would you like? What's your pleasure here? Yes, Mark. It might be time that we take another city council tour. I know we've been to this property in this area before, but that's kind of what was on my mind. Just a suggestion, something we can talk about at agenda. We can do that. Thank you.
 It will be heard at the next city council meeting unless something else is done, like a different motion to table. Otherwise, it automatically will be heard at the next council meeting. Right. They could table it if they want to at the next meeting. Well, it's already going to the next meeting, but unless it is some other table, that would not be the next meeting. Yes, Justin. No, I appreciate everybody leaving this.
 There's also some people here who got wind today of the rezoning change, and they weren't clear on the neighborhood limited as opposed to neighborhood general. Now, the city did put out on our last meeting a sort of a definition and some guidelines.
 and some pictures of some examples i would like that put back in it may be in here but it was in the last one just so people can get a better understanding because there was a lot of confusion on on how our vote process works which i totally get i still get confused um but i kept telling people on the table right now until we amended it was
 neighborhood general and then we amended it right off the bat to neighborhood limited so i do understand people's confusion so i think we need to get that back uh visible um which i think they could access that they should be able to um just so that and then i can i can certainly share that with people but i want to talk about some of the accessibility some of the traffic some of the other options um
 Let me just ask the city staff, you all wanted neighborhood limited from the beginning. Yes, sir. The planning commission wanted neighborhood general. That's right.
 Did anyone at the city, did you look at other options? Was that the best of several options, or was that the only one that made sense at the time, or how did that work? We certainly were aware of the two previous requests. I believe one was for RO office. Right. I believe another one was for RSF8, eight units per acre, a residential district. And for one reason or another, both of them got high standards.
 One thing that I thought was applicable here was the smaller grain building size and the fact that the buildings have to be on the street and that the parking has to be adjacent to the buildings. So from the highway, it doesn't give you that hard edge strip commercial look with large parking lots. With street trees, it can be very attractive.
 Also, it allows residential and office uses or low-level commercial uses on top of each other in a vertical manner. It is actually intended for that. Also it is a beautiful site. It has lots of trees and it has some depth. Fayetteville's process is first we zone, then we plat, and we decide the access.
 Then we site plan. Major development has to go through site planning. So it's a three-step process. We're in the first step. We're trying to figure out what uses and building typology is appropriate here. One more question. In the zoning classifications themselves, I was surprised that there wasn't a
 smaller unit size allotted. But am I wrong in saying that this, I thought there'd be something in the middle. But am I wrong in thinking that this
 8,000 is in the middle? Didn't it go from 3 to 25 at one time and then 8 became sort of the middle? Yes. This was designed or the general was designed to be the middle. The neighborhood services limited used to be neighborhood services. So before we went from either 3 to 25? That's correct.
 I would imagine. 3,000 to 25,000 is a big jump. So I could see why eight. OK, that makes more sense. But you can't get smaller than 3,000 square foot buildings in this case.
 And mix use wise it would allow for a building to be built three stories high with a mix use of residential and retail or commercial or whatever. Yes, sir. It would. The limitations are on the retail, the commercial. The non-residential size is the limitation. And it has a maximum of 3,000 square feet. So you can't do a combination of personal services and retail and offices.
 and go above 3,000 square foot within one building. You cannot do that in one building? You cannot. Okay, that was asked as well. So, okay. Thank you for that clarification. It's a difficult spot. Mayor? This is a hard...
 spot on 265 because of the accessibility going right in, right out. It's challenging. It is challenging. I've talked to some retail developers who think that without other areas being rezoned around it with better accessibility, that it'll be difficult for anyone to justify retail in this. But as far as commercial, that seems to be a little, in an office type environment,
 residential and offices mixed together that seems to be more pleasant to some people but but no one really wants anything but residential there as it sits on this plot so lots of lots of decisions I agree with.
 with Council Member Kenyon that taking a look at it probably wouldn't be bad again to just look at the accessibility and look at the surrounding area. So I appreciate everybody's help. Okay. Sarah? I just like, we've talked a lot about the impact of this on the specific neighborhood, but I think we need to zoom out and think of this in the regional context and realize that this is Highway 265. This is a regional corridor. This is a major component of the box around the city.
 and if we're looking if we think in terms of future transit planning if we're going to put density somewhere this is a good place to put it as far as whether that's higher density housing or commercial so while we're considering the the
 The needs of the neighbors, I think we also need to look at this from a regional perspective and from an economic development perspective about how we're going to develop the box around our city and where we're going to put density. And it seems logical to put density along that box.
 To that point, does the city staff or does anyone have the traffic count of 265 around that area? Yeah. That's what I was going to ask. I'm sorry. Yeah, I had a move. Yeah. 21,000 cars, that is one-third of I-49's volume. So one-third of the traffic of I-49 is what happens on 265 every day? Yes, sir.
 That's a lot. Yeah, I thought you'd be. Yeah, I also, if I could just jump in here and add something else to that. I had requested from, I'm just going to do it. Sarah, you're up. We've kind of hijacked that. Yeah, you cut in front of me. So I had also requested some information on accidents and, you know, because the traffic is an issue there and I know that the numbers are large.
 But I had requested some information on traffic accidents and citations and violations and that sort of thing so we could kind of get a better idea about that. And I've just gotten that in. I didn't ask for it in time to get it here to everyone else. I don't think I had that one for you. So I've gotten it but I haven't really had time to look over it. So when we do our site visit I think that would be good to have that. We can all get access to it. We can all get access to it. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Okay, we'll leave that right there then. All right, going on to new business. Number one, resolution to approve the attached real estate contract in which Centennial Bank agrees to sell and convey to the city of Federal approximately 228 acres pursuant to a special warranty deed for $3,302,250 to authorize Mayor Jordan to apply for and accept the jurors' 50-50 agreement.
 matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation for this acquisition to authorize Mayor Jordan to enter into a no interest five year loan from the Walton Family Foundation in the amount of $1,651,125 and to approve the attached budget adjustment. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. My name is Devin Howland. I'm the Director of Economic Vitality for the city of Fayetteville. The item before you is the acquisition of 228 acres.
 We are referring to a centennial open space. The resolution, as Mayor Jordan stated, does three things. It authorizes Mayor Jordan to formally apply for and accept a Walton Family Foundation grant, it's a 50-50 match, in the amount of $1.6 million. And for the city's portion of the match to formally apply for and accept a Walton Family Foundation program-related investment loan of $1.6 million to be paid back with no interest over a five-year period.
 And lastly, to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute a contract agreement with Centennial Bank to purchase 228 acres of property for $3.3 million. The property is located west of I-49. It sits just north of Martin Luther King. It's accessible from Old Farmington Road to the south. It is adjacent to Markham Hill via the other side of the interstate, and it's actually connected to the property through a cattle tunnel that we can see better on the next line.
 There are currently no uses on the property as of right now, and it's a mile and a half north of Mount Kessler. Here you can see the property in relation to our to our alternative transportation network and the cattle tunnel which is annotated across I-49 as well. This property has been a mutual interest between the City of Fayetteville and the Walton Family Foundation. It's 200 acres of tree preservation with 228 total. 63% of the property is within the enduring green network.
 It's been a hillside hilltop overlay district and it's accessible from both the north and the south. It's in very close proximity to the Boys and Girls Club and Owl Creek Elementary. The vision for the property, this property is part of a larger network of connecting greenways to tie in Mount Kessler to the university and our downtown.
 For the property itself, we are visioning a new network of biking and hiking opportunities for citizens and tourists. The ability to be able to host program mountain bike racing events on the site and have a more family-friendly beginner facility as compared to some of the trails at Mount Kessler.
 It's extremely unique because it's centrally located. It offers beautiful panoramic views of Fayetteville and it's a preservation of a significant view shift. But what really makes this project so unique is the fact that it is located in a central part of our community. Its sloping top makes it a perfect location to host such types of events like mountain bike racing. The Walton Family Foundation is also funding a master plan for the site at no cost to the city.
 that will be completed this spring. This is the first draft. It is an eight to 10 mile loop track system. And in order to compare, some of the council members inquired on the uniqueness of this. And so we looked at tracks across the country. We looked at 60 of them, and there's more we could have kept going. And we asked, are they centrally located?
 Do they have a cleared space around it where it's ideal to make it for spectators, staging of vendors, volunteers, etc.? What are the distances of these tracks and where in the U.S. are they located, continentally? No surprise, the majority were located on the east and west coast. That really showed us this is extremely unique because very few places hit all of those criteria. We really believe through a competitive advantage that a property like this would enable Fayetteville to compete for these events.
 With all Walton Family Foundation grants, there are outputs and outcomes, and I wanted to walk you through some of those. Some of the outputs to support and allow for 8 to 10 miles of trail development on the site in accordance with the plan, to take ownership and permanently protect and preserve this piece of property.
 The outcomes are contribution through the funding, but also a commitment to maintain the trails to the standards outlined in the Razorback Regional Greenway and the International Mountain Biking Association standards, specifically the Guide to Sweet Swingle Track, and amend our master trails plan to incorporate linkages into the property. We'll also note that the master plan being funded by the Walton Family Foundation is looking at that as well.
 This project, as we mentioned, is unique for a lot of reasons, but financing the first one, this is a really great deal. $7,200 an acre is our direct out-of-pocket cost at no interest on our loan. However, there's another aspect of this project that makes it even greater. It's so rare when you can have a project that hits economic, environmental, and social benefits. A full triple bottom line approach. And we feel this project does have that potential.
 um not only in our conversations with the Fayetteville chamber of commerce we believe this project will be a catalyst for private investment around the sun but also the ability to host these program racing events the national interscholastic cycling association there are four chapters in Fayetteville and four through four in Fayetteville alone this is a growing sport and that is only one race series nike as we're not even getting into the larger ones
 But also, we believe through attracting and hosting these races, this is going to benefit our hotels, our retailers, and our restaurants as well. But this is a place-making investment too. When we think about talent, the number one reason why companies locate in an area is talent now. It has been for the past few years. This is a quality of life investment that continues to help make Fayetteville an amazing place to live, work, and do business, and keep talent from the university here, but also attract it as well.
 It's not completed yet, but the Walton Family Foundation also commissioned a study on the economic impact of bicycling in northwest Arkansas, and we do have some preliminary numbers. They have the highest bicycling participation rate in the region, and half of the businesses surveyed indicated that they had received positive impact from bicycling facilities and benefits from bicycling tourism as well.
 And we touched on the Enduring Green Network, we touched on tree preservation as well, but the environmental and social benefits for this acquisition, they're numerous. Not only the preservation of the trees and all the benefits they're currently providing this city, but it divides two different watersheds as well. It's a significant view shed from a lot of different places in our community. I was looking out the third floor of City Hall and it's a highly visible site.
 Additional venue for healthy and active lifestyles, something that I know is extremely important in this city as well, in an area that could desperately use a park of this magnitude. It would be an amazing addition being a mile and a half north of Mount Kessler. Furthermore, there's a bus stop to the north of the site with Razorback Transit to make the site even more accessible to people who do not have means to get there, and it will be tied into the alternative transportation network.
 i'd be happy to answer any questions or the staff that's here with us thank you for your time and your consideration okay what questions do we have for devon i have one but i can't push my button okay go ahead all right i'm still not there we go sorry devon thanks um i think i mentioned this to you but
 I always try anyway to look at the distant future sometimes when we're doing things like this because this is, you know, there is an investment on our part here even though it's a very good financial deal for our taxpayers. I was talking to somebody not too long ago and I told them that it may be, I may be a lot older when this happens, but I could envision something like an X Games coming to Northwest Arkansas sometime.
 And they looked at me like I was crazy. And I said, well, so we have the University of Arkansas. We have the Walton Foundation. We're a top five place to live. We have an expanding airport. And we've soon to have nonstop four-lane interstate roads that will lead to millions and millions of people north, south, east, and west. And they looked at me like, I didn't think about that. And I said, these are the kind of things that are key pieces of that. Mount Kessler was one.
 Slaughter pen all the way down. We've got a Razorback Greenway that can connect we've got multiple spots where things like that could happen or like you were saying smaller smaller touring Events all over so I think I know the answer but would something like this be a relatively inexpensive investment on something like that possibly coming down the line and
 I think so, especially because they are soft surface trails that will be developed on the site. And while we don't have the final master plan, we do know the maintenance of those far more cheaper to replace than hard surface trails. But I think it is important to think big too. In my research when I was looking at tracks, that was something I noticed. Do they actually race on something they call a race track as well? And it was very specialized because a lot of the tracks and there's mountain bike racing that takes place in Arkansas,
 But it's not done on tracks that was designed for it. It's on single tracks. So to have an amenity that could potentially be designed for it, if that's what the master plan envisions, that's a very big draw. It's a huge amenity. I just think for that master plan to happen, these pieces need to be in place to add to the other pieces that we already have in place. It would be a great diversification of the soft trails in the city and in the region as well. Well, thank you very much. Yes, sir.
 One other question we have, John. Mr. Mayor, I'm very excited about it. You know, I had a concern at the agenda session about the perpetual nature of it. I guess I'd rather see a term of years, maybe 400 years or 500 years, because 500 years from now, maybe there are better ideas of what can be done with the land.
 I'm going to be here, John, because I'm going to get all my social security back. But anyway, I'm going to be here. I wish you well in that endeavor, Mayor. I plan to be home by then. But anyway, I'm excited about the project. I'm excited about the economic vitality, Mr. Director, of our economic vitality, that it can add the potential to make Fayetteville a destination in the biking circuit. I like that.
 I think it's a good financial deal. Someone's giving us half. Thank you, Walton Family Foundation. And aren't we glad Sam and Bud took a risk? We're the beneficiaries of that risk. And they were great entrepreneurs, and I appreciate that. And we're benefiting from all of that today. And I'm excited about this and would like to know, when can I ride my bike on it?
 There is actually no timeline commitment to build the facilities. It will be as budgeting capital permits. So I guess that would be Bill's call. The main thing we're doing tonight is the land acquisition, and then we will look at other stuff later in the plans as they come in. Thank you, Mayor. Well, and I'm sorry. Can I say one thing? Yeah, you can. Sure, I will. And...
 That's why we have an A&P Commission and that's why we have a Chamber of Commerce and that's why we have the tourism groups. I mean they go out and actively find people and this will empower them even more to find ways for the citizens to, like you said, HMR taxes, I think they'll go up because of things like this. So anyway, I just want to remind everybody we have those processes in place now. They just need more reasons to get people here.
 I love this plan. I am a cyclist. I love the environmental benefits that this has the potential to deliver. But I am also a pragmatist and I worry, you know, we are getting a great deal on the land, but it is also going to cost us $1.6 million over the next five years. And so that's about a little over $330,000 a year that has to come out of our budget.
 And what concerns me is that we have a waiting list for sidewalks that's over 14 years long right now.
 We have neighborhoods that need to be connected with sidewalks and trails that will serve people every day, not just tourists that come in and hopefully stay in our hotels and spend at our restaurants. But we do need to consider how we're going to pay for that because we have a very tight budget here. If we're going to spend $330,000 a year on this, where is that going to come from?
 And so I guess that's my question to my fellow council members. And I hope that we don't cut it out of sidewalks and our existing trails plan. As we look at this, it would be like any one-term investment.
 as we know in the general fund which is what would fund this we'll end the year with about between five and six million dollars over and above what the 60-day reserve we need for uh for financial reserves so essentially it would come out of that over a point in time it wouldn't be cut out of the operating budget or any of the capital projects that we've discussed that you approved during the cip project
 Remember, I'll go back to what we discussed at budget time.
 There's a couple of reasons you have reserves. One of the reasons you have reserves is obviously in case you have an economic downturn, you've got a cushion, just like a bank account to handle that. But you also have opportunities that come along only once in a while to invest. And this, I think, is one of those opportunities. So I wouldn't envision it coming out of operating funds or the current CIP that was approved. I believe we have enough to fund it over that incremental period.
 for the $1.6 million, which still won't cut into our reserves to a great degree because it's going to come out incrementally over the five-year period. MS. Okay. And then I also, you know, normally what we, that's, we take that money that's left over and we use that for raises for our staff.
 Is this going to affect our ability to raise our staff, especially our police and fire? Okay. Well, let's go back and talk about that a little bit as we do, and we'll be discussing salary increases at a point in time. As we've talked before, you can't take one-time money and pay
 salaries over a period of time because the period of time it builds into that operating budget so that money really wouldn't be appropriate to learn to use in that salary package anyway. As we talked about when we do talk about the raise package, we can't go into reserves forever to maintain it so it shouldn't affect that discussion. Okay, thank you.
 I mean, sir, when we made that decision, we talked about that. I talked to Paul. How would we pay for it? Yeah, we can take it out of reserve now, but we have a no-interest loan that we can pay back in a five-year period, which leaves the reserves in place in case we need to do more things. And that's the reason why I made it. All this decision-making was made by me, and I'll give you that one.
 Well, I just, you know, I'm hearing from the community that they don't want to see a short-change neighborhood parks. We want to make sure we can have sidewalks and trails for our residents' day-to-day use. And we want to make sure that we can pay our police and fire, get them up to market rate. So I want to make sure we're not compromising these three objectives. And that is the decision that you have to make tonight. Whether you think this is a good enough investment to invest the taxpayer dollars in it and or not.
 I do want to add, because I think this is a key point for citizens and the council to consider. There are certain things that come before you once. The ability to purchase Kessler came before us one time, and you have an opportunity to take it or to leave it. Some of these situations come before you at times when you'd like more information. What's the economy going to do?
 In 2009, is it going to turn around? How long are we going to use reserves? Pay plans, what's going to happen with those? I think all of us who have to manage the taxpayers' money as a fiduciary responsibility want to minimize that risk.
 and yet take advantage of opportunities where citizens get a huge return, in this case a 50% match on a piece of property that is only available to us because of a foreclosure and a return to a bank who is willing to take less money for a public benefit in matching funds.
 we do have a lot of priorities. I think one of the things that's important to point out in this is that there is not a timeline to build trails. And that was purposeful by the mayor in directing me in this discussion with the family, only because we don't know what comes before us. And there may be opportunities for matching funds for that. There may be opportunities for bond funds for that, depending on what the council does. But there isn't a time requirement for that.
 There is a time requirement for this land. It was going to go to auction. And if the city had an interest in bringing this forward with any type of partnership, it had to act now. And so that's the item before us. There's a lot of people, I think, who could say, well, why
 Why didn't we get to weigh on this? Why didn't we look at that? Sometimes these transactions are done simply because of the timing. We made a phone call 48 hours before this property was to go to auction because of a collaborative partnership with the Walton family that allowed us to even have this discussion. Without a funding partner, we wouldn't be here talking about it today.
 Without a bank willing to take it off of an auction, we wouldn't be here talking about it today. Yet, we now have an exciting, in my opinion, opportunity for future development of lands, even if our parks board later decides that they didn't think it was a good idea.
 It has benefits in our enduring green network, it has benefits in hillside protection, it has benefits in our trail corridor networking, much broader than one single item. And as anyone has to do, sometimes these items are negotiated and brought to the only entity that can make the financial decision on the purchase of land.
 which is you. We've done that with the Come and Go, we did it with Sequoia Woods on Mount Sequoia, we did it with the Brooks Hummel property, those two both on multi-year payouts. We did it on Kessler with a one-time purchase, we did it as recent as Gully Park for 10 acres of land.
 And this won't be the last one because I'm sure as we've heard various members of our community, there's other properties they'd like to see us evaluate. All of you in this discussion with me have talked about the people who want to talk about Lewis Fields. But this does come with different
 pieces of information. It comes with partnerships, it comes with no time frame for development, it comes with a one-time land offering in the center of town on a hillside which your own strategic plan has said to us that we should protect. So from our perspective, this is a no-win to get it in the inventory of the city whose land value is only going to go up and cost the citizens more money if we decide we want it in the future for development.
 And that's the decision I'm from you today. And it does, we understand, I particularly, managing the budget, understand that it's $275,000, whatever the annual payment is,
 If we were going to take it from something else that wouldn't get done, just like we made the same decision when you said spend a million dollars for Gully Park, there's a project that was put on hold to buy the land. Now what is for you today is not taking it from something else. It's using the reserves. And I might add on behalf of all the staff,
 that you have the ability to have this discussion because of strong money management of your management team and our chief financial officer because 11 10 years ago when the mayor took office we couldn't necessarily have this discussion So it's been that strong money management that's allowed us to build this result up and even have it and we will have added this council and
 will have added over 500 acres of preserved hillside lands that allow us to develop this economic development opportunity in mountain biking. If we are able to do that in partnership, we will literally be unlike most any other region in the country.
 And that's the kind of things when you talk about competitive advantages for a community that you're trying to create. At least that's what your strategic plan that you all sent to us, that we've been reading and trying to figure out how to implement, says for us to do. So, you know, we've heard a lot of people who still have...
 funding priorities that they'd like to have but this is a one-time expense to get land all other commitments still have to come before you we're still relying on the cip bond discussions other funding mechanisms to make those decisions but this will not be in front of you after march the 30th this contract before you says we must close on this before march the 30th
 That's why this decision is in front of you tonight, because it typically takes us 45 to 60 days to do all the paperwork necessary for this type of land transaction. Tonight is the night we have to do it. We also had to, and I also want to thank the Walton Family Foundation partners, because without their money, we wouldn't even be able to have this discussion in front of you today.
 But we also out of respect to a major Thunder have to make sure that they were comfortable to move forward because otherwise it's senseless to ask you Without knowing that we had that and that is something that was just done literally the day before your agenda session So I want to thank them as we think it's a great economic development item this is use of reserves over five years at a zero interest and
 for 228 acres with no development requirements, only within your existing plans and what you prioritize. And since we're doing a Parks Master Plan, I was just in Washington last week having a federal legislator tell me that times were changing, that people want more outdoor activities, more hiking, biking. They want to be on the water.
 They're not necessarily in organized sports like some of us might have grown up being. And it was really praising the fact that the city was going to have this discussion.
 So, you know, this also gives us the ability to do it at our pace. And if you find through the parks master planning process that people want to make this a higher priority, then I'm sure when you talk about your bond funding discussion, then it gives you the opportunity to make it a higher priority. But tonight, it's a land transaction, not a park development, not building trails.
 not how many trails, it's whether you want this land in our inventory to develop for an economic development, mountain biking, best in class opportunity. Alright, got one.
 Well, I don't get to be the first to thank the Waltons for being involved, but I would like to thank the staff in the mayor's office for being on the lookout for this sort of opportunity, because it's exciting to live in a town that's got this kind of opportunity come up as frequently as they do. And Don, you made a...
 you made all the arguments there i've been looking for a reason to any reason at all to to have an objection to this um you mentioned lewis park and several of the residents have mentioned that or razorback golf course places all across town nothing that they're asking for there compares to the
 arrangements that have gone into getting this ready to just, I mean, I can't find a reason to not like this. But the one question that's come up that kind of made me wonder, it was kind of an equity argument. This is all sold around mountain bikes and mountain bike trails. What happens when there's not a big mountain bike event out there? Will these things be
 Will we be able to keep this open for hiking and recreational use that's not racing? And in particular, the tree preservation part, will that put any limitations on us as far as connecting this with paved trail through the rest of the network on both sides?
 Looking at the property in regards to your last question, specifically where the trailhead is, there was a planned road on the northern end and so I think we'll be able to do it with minimal. And whatever method that we do use to protect the land, we just have to make sure that it is in line with those outputs and outcome agreements, which would allow us eight to ten miles of soft trails. And so I think that's that mechanism. And your first question?
 In regards to use, yes, this would be open to the general public at any point in time. We were talking about that a few minutes ago. Not just for events, but runners, bikers, hikers, anyone who, it would be a park in a sense. They had that access. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Sarah? Thank you. You're doing a great job there. One of the things, you know, gosh, everybody's hit on all the points already, but one of the things that, you know, I just am so grateful for the relationship that we've had over the years with the Walton Family Foundation.
 and that we even have this opportunity. It's just exceptional and you're right, they don't come along very often. Sometimes they don't come along at all. And there are certain things that we don't know, but I think that once the study is done, we'll know a lot more and we'll have a better place to start from from there. I think from an academic perspective,
 from an economic standpoint. That's one of the ways I look at this and I just don't think that we can overlook that. The sales tax revenue, the HMR revenue and the businesses that may pop up around it. From the site itself, if this were to go to sale to a developer, I
 I believe, just in my interpretation of the site, that there's areas that are kind of compromised for development, excuse me, did you want to say something? Oh sorry, okay. There seems to be some,
 challenges with a development of this site if it were sold to a developer so houses apartments that sort of thing might be difficult to build on this and so I think this is a great way to maintain our environmental area that we'd like to see when we come into Fayetteville to begin with so that's just those are just my two bits there
 Devin had something about what it would cost to develop that area, what they run the, here's some of the numbers on that. Yes, we actually looked at that site for an additional prospect that was interested in the top when it was still for sale. Ten million dollars between the water tower it would need to get the pressure plane for any type of really commercial activity and the Master Street plan road going up and back down the other side of this mountain.
 and those are estimates were done at the end of last year that's why it's been for sale that's yeah that's why it's been for sale yeah thank you very much devin all right any other council members what public comment do we have jeff amrine startup junkie consulting mr mayor council members i come here from the perspective of
 sort of the global challenge that we have for attracting and retaining the best talent. And that is largely driven by the assets and the aspirations that innovative areas have. This type of project is the sort of thing that's not just going to drive tourism here, but it will allow us to attract and retain the best talent, who by and large are looking for amazing outdoor activities and these sorts of amenities.
 And the fact that it's not 25 miles away from the city center and it's going to be accessible and it can be used all the time is an additional amenity. It will be part of an overall Razorback Greenway that's very accessible. We have a chance to be world class in many different areas. Attracting and keeping the best talent is the pathway to get there. And this is one of those projects that's supportive of that aim so that we can continue to aspire to be the startup city of the South.
 Hello, my name is Kyla Templeton, I'm the league director and the race director for Arkansas NICA League and I'm here on behalf of our league and then also our head coach for one of our big Fayetteville teams is having an information session tonight at the library so she couldn't be here tonight.
 Mun, so we're so excited that you are considering this. And I'm excited just about the possibility of having a course built specifically for our types of races. We like to have races that are accessible to lots of different varieties of levels of racers. And so it's really important that a sixth grade girl can race on our races. So NICA is sixth through 12th grade.
 student athletes. And we have teams in Arkansas all the way from Bentonville down to Little Rock, Conway, Fort Smith, Poteau, Oklahoma. So we have teams all over and these teams come to our races.
 I think the thing that I'm most excited about about this project is the gathering of students in your community as you are talking about that you're the people that live here. If you go to Slaughterpin on a Thursday night in the summertime in Bentonville, you'll see over a hundred student athletes practicing.
 mountain biking, doing skills and drills, riding the trails. And it's really fun to see. And not only the student athletes, their coaches, and a lot of times their parents and their siblings are there. It's a whole community experience. And so it's really fun. And then also being able to bring a race here. I was talking with...
 one of the guys at the foundation the Walton Family Foundation today about what if we had like a little bit wider corridors on the trails that get put in there and then we could we can really grow into the space and we could There exists no national championship in NICA yet but but that's something that we could push for in the future to be to bring here so I
 The other thing about this property is it's like riding distances to several schools and that Boys and Girls Club and that they would have so much accessibility to this property and an amazing park. We see lots of, even I mentioned families coming and riding, but sometimes if the families, they aren't riding, they're hiking or walking their dogs or they don't just ride. It's kind of like a whole community thing.
 Another couple things, so that's the kind of the NICA side of things. I wanted to mention a couple other points from a personal standpoint. I live in Bentonville. I live right downtown.
 Yesterday and today I saw two different groups of mountain bikers visiting from Minnesota. Do you know they visit in the wintertime? They come in the winter because their trails are snowy. And they say downtown Bentonville because that's where you can access lots of trails. And I can see how having this right here and then Kessler so close by could really draw people to be visiting. But...
 and not Bentonville Fayetteville the other thing um I live downtown Bentonville I can ride exactly like I can ride from my house onto the trails um my husband and I last um like our I would say our situation is almost ideal across the street from schools we we bought a lot in Bella Vista that's adjacent to the trails so that we could ride out of our backyard um becoming um
 so close to the trails that you hardly have to think about it is really appealing when you're in that community and so to Jeff's point about like really bringing people and I can see more people wanting to live right around that area So but those are my comments. Thank you. Would you tell me again who you're? I'm
 What's your organization? So Devon was referring to NICA, the National Interscholastic Cycling Association. I'm the league director for the Arkansas league. So I'm over student mountain biking for all of Arkansas, sixth through twelfth grade. Okay, great. Thank you. We're so excited. Thank you for your comments.
 Mayor and Council, thank you for your time today. I'm excited that this is up for consideration. I'm Dr. Allen Bruni. I wear two hats at this meeting. I work for Startup Junkie. You have tasked us to help you with economic development. As evidenced by my jersey, I'm one of the advanced coaches for the NICA League.
 So if nothing else I've seen so far and I started with Startup Junkie in October and this has been the biggest thing that's come through since I've been there that really supports this idea of building community and building a sense of place. I know that's something that we're driving, we're looking at being the startup city of the south. On the other hand, we're sitting there looking at mountain biking.
 Mountain bikers and entrepreneurs, they really go hand in hand more than you think. A ton of the mountain bikers I talk to are startup entrepreneurs. I talk to a lot of startup entrepreneurs who are looking to get into cool new sports. And so I really do feel like those two things go hand in hand and help build that overarching sense of community. It helps build families. I can speak as I'm the head coach for the Bentonville High School team, but I do help train all of the coaches across the state.
 And so it's really important to build that sense of community and to give kids a cool outlet to do something fun. And that also supports their parents. Like as Kyla mentioned, we have a girl on our team whose mom comes and trail runs every practice.
 And so, and their little, their younger siblings come and ride the trails during practice. And so it brings that into a community and I used to live in Fayetteville, so I know exactly where this piece of property is. It actually tees right up to the subdivision I used to live in. And so that benefit of being able to ride from your house to get into the trails and have, you know, mom to have a cool outlet to get some exercise after she gets off work and to get to spend time with her kids.
 I think that all entirely built into that concept of building these family communities that they can live together, play together, and work hard together. So that's all. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council. My name is Molly Ron and I'm the Executive Director of Experience Fayetteville. Can you hear me okay? Which is the A&P Commission for the city.
 allowing me the opportunity to speak with you all tonight. Experience Fayetteville is wholeheartedly in support of this incredible opportunity for our city. We have heard a lot about tourism. Devin has done a great job pulling some data, as has Paul. I don't want to be repetitive, but what I do want to say is a couple of things I would like for you
 to consider. We have talked a lot about events, and Justin, I know that you mentioned these big mountain bike events, and that you didn't think it was that crazy to get the Xbox, sorry, get the X Games here. And just to let you know, I also don't think it's that crazy either. I think our region has the potential, our city specifically, to do things like that.
 just this November I'll be attending along with members of my staff the National Bike Tourism Conference in San Antonio and I'm really eager to be able to share the news about this with them and talk to those race planners and those event planners about how we get them to Fayetteville but it isn't all about
 So when we think about mountain biking tourism, it isn't just about hosting the events, and I don't want us to think that that is the only benefit. According to singletracks.com and some surveys that they have done with their constituency, mountain bikers take two mountain bike vacations each year in addition to the additional trips where they bring their bike when they're traveling for other purposes.
 36, does that make sense? So like they're there. So it's like two vacations, but then also they're there for somewhere else. They're bringing their bike. 36% of them usually bring their family. And then something that really hit home with our staff, the average distance traveled from home for a mountain biking trip is 566 miles. Now that's the average.
 So when we think about, you know, historically, CVBs and our organization has thought about 300 miles, right? Like that's sort of where our reach is. This expands that. To put that into perspective and make it feel real for you, that's Nashville. Nashville to Fayetteville is 531 miles.
 So well within what that five hundred and sixty six that we know people are traveling to come and see The other thing I want to point out is that mountain biking is Unique in that it is a year-round sport. It is something that you know, I see people out there mountain biking in January So it is year-round. This is significant for Fayetteville because we know our largest revenue generating months for tourism specifically
 our HMR are October, September, and April. This allows us to find things in other months that also help that tourism revenue on a year round basis.
 And lastly, one just tidbit, since we launched our rebrand and our new website about a year ago, we have had a specific goal of marketing Fayetteville as an outdoor destination. A destination for people who travel for outdoor recreation, for mountain bikers specifically. Since we began running advertising pre-roll footage with an outdoor focus,
 and our geofencing campaigns with an outdoor focus, we have seen a 269% increase in traffic to our website from those specific ads. So we know that people are hungry for this type of recreation and for this type of travel. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and City Council members. I'm a member of the City Council
 My name is Erin Scott and I'm speaking as a member of the City's Environmental Action Committee, although I will say we haven't discussed this project as a committee yet. But according to the ordinances establishing and amending the Environmental Action Committee, we're charged with addressing environmental concerns, promoting a healthy and safe environment,
 and maintaining the natural beauty of the environment within the city we're also responsible for making recommendations to city council on matters concerning the environment
 Today I speak in support of the mountain ranch land acquisition Preserving this large tract of land will provide many valuable benefits to the community community and the city It will positively impact water quality by continuing to provide forested and pervious areas that reduces storm water runoff peak stream flows and flooding potential to area residents and
 Preserving this land will complement the city's recently adopted environmental action plan by keeping forests for carbon sequestration, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and reducing the urban heat island.
 With the plans to use this property for things like hiking and mountain biking, it will provide excellent opportunity for the community to be physically active and healthy and provide economic opportunity through recreational tourism, which we're hearing a lot about tonight.
 So, I'd like to share a quick anecdote. I work for the University of Arkansas and my department recently flew in a prospective PhD student and I got to pick her up from the airport and so we had a chance to discuss lots of different things and at one point we started talking about what we like to do outside and she asked me what Fayetteville has to offer in the way of outdoor activities.
 So I was excited to let her know about everything we have to offer, like the paved and off-road trails around Lake Fayetteville, the beautiful hiking opportunities we have within our city limits at Mount Sequoia and Kessler Mountain. And as we all know, the list goes on and on.
 The student indicated that outdoor recreational opportunities would play a big role in her decision about what school to attend. It was easy to get her excited about living in Fayetteville because of how much we value the natural beauty and recreational benefits of our lands.
 So this is a good example about how the city's open space plans are not only valuable for the health and well-being of current residents and the environment, but also attracts talented individuals to the area. And so securing this land along with everything else that we do as a city will help us to continue to develop in a positive direction. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 My name is Colin Massey. I live at 1630 North Jordan Lane in Ward 3. I've been in Fayetteville since 2001 and I currently serve as a citizen at large on Fayetteville's Environmental Action Committee. Active in several types of cycling, sports, as well as the other outdoor opportunities our community offers. Professionally, I'm an environmental educator. I'm a
 I work as a county agent, extension agent for the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension. My job is to help residents and the general public better understand their connection to urban water quality of our local streams. We work often with partners to organize litter removals, public awareness campaigns, and more recently invasive species removal and native plant restoration.
 I'm speaking to you tonight to voice my support for the proposed acquisition of the Millsap Mountain property and I think the opportunity to conserve 228 acres of open space along with Mount Kessler, with Mount Sequoia Woods, Brooks Hummel Nature Preserve among others is a significant enhancement for the enduring green network, our trail connectivity, and the long-term resilience of Fayetteville.
 My job allows me to present to a lot of different groups about conservation and water quality issues. And one thing I always stress is that all of these components are soil, water, plant, and air. These are all interconnected. And finding a balance on a large scale is a significant challenge. When one of those things is out of balance, we tend to see the consequences, whether that's stream bank erosion or invasive species monoculture.
 But we're a region that's growing at an incredible rate, which brings both benefits and challenges. As we develop, the amount of impervious surface, that's places where rainwater can infiltrate the ground, increases. And in doing so, the volume and velocity of water that enters storm drains and flows through our local creeks is also increased.
 often beyond the capacity at which that stream can handle, which leads to erosion, flooding, and water quality concerns. But while that growth contributes to our robust economy, my emphasis has been on smart growth that finds that balance, but also reinforces the sustainability and resilience of our region. And one of, if not the most important factor in achieving that is healthy urban forests.
 and green spaces. So trees, other natural areas, open park lands, these all help absorb tremendous amounts of stormwater. They're critical to our environment, our drinking water supply, our economy, and recreational opportunities that we're so privileged to have. In addition to the air quality benefits, the urban tree canopy helps intercept and slow stormwater, filters contaminants and nutrients, and enhances groundwater storage
 I'd like to offer just one example on the economic benefits involved with the conservation of urban forests. In 2002, there was a study of 27 water suppliers that was conducted by the Trust for Public Land and the American Water Works Association. And they found that the more forest cover in a watershed, the lower the drinking water treatment costs. The study showed that for every 10% increase in forest cover in the watershed,
 the treatment and chemical costs decreased by 20 percent. Which would, you know, to put that in perspective, in 2012 the City of Fayetteville did an urban canopy assessment and showed we were at approximately 36 percent canopy cover, which would equate to about 64 million dollars in avoided stormwater costs. And when that drops to 30 percent, which is possibly where we are now,
 that value would fall to about only 44 million of avoided costs. The point being that although it's often hidden and unseen, the ecosystem services provided by urban forests are extremely valuable. So maintaining the forested acreage such as in this proposal in the middle of Fayetteville, it's a significant offset to those increased impervious surfaces. And the outdoor opportunities...
 Thank you. The outdoor opportunities that can host are just one more connective piece that continues to make Fayetteville such a great place to live. So I commend the city, the Walton family, and Centennial Bank for having the foresight to consider conservation opportunities such as this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, Chuck Maxwell, 1063 North Kings Drive, a member of the Parks and Rec Advisory Board and president of the Ozark Off-Road Cyclists. As a member of the board, I do appreciate you guys taking a look at this and really support the acquisition of this property.
 As the organizational leader, our group looks at this as definitely an opportunity for the community. I'm going to go ahead and skip two of mine because I think they've been well covered. And just tell you, the ORC has a 20-year history of advocating for building and maintaining and preserving soft surface trails for the communities. And not only is that for mountain bikers, but that's for all outdoor enthusiasts.
 It's dog watchers, it's bird watchers, it's every runner that's out there that uses the trail. And although mountain bikers are very, advocate for and are the builders and maintainers of all these trails, they're actually one of the smallest groups out there utilizing them.
 When you're looking at this, recognize this. This is going to the larger community outside of the mountain bikers. I mean, truthfully, hikers probably make up 60% of the trail users worldwide. So even when we're mountain bikers, we're advocating for outdoor enthusiasts to be able to utilize all these trails. The ORC will continue to partner with the City of Fayetteville in maintaining and managing the soft surface trails.
 through the city and beyond. In 2017, the ORC on two projects at Gregory Park and Kessler gave almost 2,000 hours of volunteer service.
 And beyond just building those trails at those two parks, we continue to maintain trails at Lake Fayetteville and Mount Kessler and Mount Sequoia Hall as well. Additional trails will go for us. We look at this as an additional recruitment opportunity for us to get more people involved with what we're doing and building and maintaining and helping preserve the trails and the beautiful trails that we have here in Fayetteville.
 That's all I got for you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. I'm going to try to one-up Chuck and make it even quicker. So I'm Paxton Roberts. I'm the executive director of Bike NWA. We fully support this initiative to purchase this land. We think it will be a great asset, and I think it's really great to see so much public support from all these different groups and organizations tonight. I think it says a lot about how far we've come as a community. Thank you. Thank you, Paxton. Who else?
 Mayor and Council, I support the acquisition of this piece of property. One of the things that I was hoping somebody else would already say, because we had a lot of really great things that have been said, I used to live across the street.
 from this property and one of the things that I wished so much that I would like to see in the continuing of the growth of Fayetteville is that more natural barriers be placed between 49 and residential because what's happening when you're living there I live there when it went from four lanes to six or eight it is so loud okay nobody wants to live next to 49
 So I support this in all wonderful reasons that people have mentioned, but nobody mentions sound and it is an important sound barrier. Thank you. My name is Frank Sharp and I live on Kessler Mountain. If not a day goes by I won't thank you folks for saving 387 acres up there. A couple of things that I haven't heard mentioned, I had representatives from the UAMS
 come out and asked to photograph part of Rock City.
 I said, what's going on? He said, well, we're taking pictures of Buffalo River, Crystal Bridges, Farmer's Market, and the hiking trails because there's a lot of competition to get residents to come to the med schools. And we're competing with other med schools. And so this was a little presentation that they were giving which boils down to quality of life, which I've heard mentioned many times. Another thing that I haven't heard mentioned is
 The 387 acres you saved has been a catalyst because private landowners in that area are saving almost as many. 200 acres of the Johnson Pear Farm on the south end of Kessler. The Rob and Charles Leffler donated, put the conservationism on 50 acres. There's another 65 acres that I think you'll be hearing about. And all of this
 almost it equals a 387 it did not cost the taxpayers a penny so that what you did I thank you for and I think it was a catalyst it has reaped many many benefits thank you thank you very much
 I'm Elizabeth Bowen with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission.
 Our organization is made up of a council of governments. So it's the two county judges and the 32 mayors. So Mayor Jordan sits on our council. I do. Or as a member. You guys are a member of our organization. So we look at regional efforts, transportation, transit, bicycle and pedestrian planning, anything that crosses city and county boundaries.
 So some of the things that we have been able to have an impact over the years based on the visionaries and the leadership that you and many in our past have been able to do is things like Beaver Lake.
 the northwest Arkansas regional airport, the Interstate 49, and also the Raysback Regional Greenway, for example, all started as a regional effort. So we have a northwest Arkansas regional open space plan that was adopted by the mayors and the county judges in January of 2016. And since that time, we as a region have been working very hard to find these types of properties, find the partnerships, find the managers that will manage these properties, and get the
 these opportunities into either conservation easements or in the public realm. And not all properties need to be in the public realm by any means, but that's some of the things that the open space plan looks at. Now I want to just kind of visit with you a little bit about. So the purpose of the plan is to have a voluntary program. This is not where we are taking property, it's where properties are for sale or you have voluntary landowners like Mr. Sharp expressed, we have quite a number of
 voluntary landowners that are putting properties into open space voluntarily, allowing people to use it in a public aspect.
 I want to talk a little bit about the plan. Everything that has been described here tonight is in the plan from the social, the economic. All of those benefits are in the plan. Why we need to look at open space, why we need to be preserving things in northwest Arkansas based on the population that we are anticipating with 100,000 people per decade. That's a lot of people coming into our region that are going to be living here and are going to need this open space.
 I want to talk a little bit about how this particular piece of property would rank when we look at it in the open space plan. So the plan has a map that's called an overall priority map that is utilized the GIS system to create a map to show where the best opportunities for preserving open space would be. They range from a level of five to zero. And this particular property has a significant area that is a level five.
 portion of it that's a level four and some that's a level three. So everything on the property is of importance. I wanted to explain a little bit about the categories in the plan. I think you're going to be hearing more about the plan now that we're seeing more open space, seeing more properties becoming open space.
 So we look at the natural resources, this particular property ranked at 102,000 points when we look at points per acre. For the core and corridors with all the trees on the property it ranked at 45,000 points. For the heritage and cultural there's a lot of heritage, Civil War and the Dinsmore, the historical piece of it ranked at 41,000 points.
 The recreation, 20,000 points, and the working lands, 13,000 points. You can see how in the open space plan this particular piece of property ranks very high and it should be looked at and considered as part of a regional effort as well as your local plans that you've already expressed.
 I wanted to also let you know that you guys are not the only ones. You purchased Kessler, now you're looking at this piece of property. As a region, we are looking at all of the aspects of the tourism, the social economic, the economic service that these properties provide.
 The city of Rogers in December purchased 26 acres. Viewshed right along the interstate 49, confluence of two creeks, and that's a similar partnership with the Walton Family Foundation that you guys are being able to enter into. Springdale, they've donated over 100 acres to the Arkansas Game and Fish for the Nature Center. So as you can see that this is...
 Thank you. So this is a regional effort that I'd like to just remind you that we have the Northwest Arkansas Open Space Plan. You have a committee that is working hard to bring these opportunities to you and to other areas. I just encourage you as a regional planning commission employee to look at going in and purchasing this property. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Paula Maranoni. I live at 617 West Lafayette Street in Fayetteville. And I'm here representing the Maranoni family. The Maranoni family owned the north part of this property for about 65 to 70 years.
 So if there's anything you want to know about it, we know about it. And one of the reasons we know about it and that we had tried to save it over the years is because our father, he loved the outdoors. Tim Ernst.
 credited him with teaching, being the one who taught him about the woods and about nature. Tim Ernst, of course, is a Fayetteville native who is probably one of the most renowned nature photographers in the country.
 He named a piece of his favorite part of the Ozark Highlands trails that he founded and was president of for 28 years. He named it after our father. It's called the Maranoni Scenic Area. You can look it up online. It's beautiful. And people all over the country say, boy, this must have been a really special man for him to name this beautiful area after him.
 You know about the cattle tunnel, which I've brought up many times through the years. We got to enlarge that tunnel. We had two pieces of property, the back end and the front end, that joined at a point where the two sections met. And so when they put the highway through,
 Daddy had the highway department put a tunnel in for the cows to get from one side to the other side And there's a real funny story how he did that But then when they enlarged it it got bigger and it got bigger and so hopefully in this whole process that can be enlarged Because that will open up pedestrian traffic from the east to the west I really hope that can get done and
 When I heard about this the other day, I mean, I just about went airborne, because we love this property so much, and in about 2000 or whenever it was, there's a lot of irony here, the Walton Family Foundation made an unprecedented gift of $500 million to the University of Arkansas for their campaign for the 21st century. And...
 We remember going, whoa, nobody ever heard of such a thing. Well, so Maranoni family, you know, we're thinking, well, we could do something, which is totally what they meant to do with matching grant. You want to bring other people to the table too. You want to be a game changer and make things possible that would not otherwise have been possible. So we approached the city back then and offered to sell one,
 about 250 to 300 acres on the back end of the farm to the city for 14,000 an acre. And at that time, and none of you were here then,
 At that time, the current mayor really wanted to push for the Cato Springs site, so we dropped it. We went under contract with someone who wanted to buy it then, and that land connected all the way back to the Boys Club. I mean, it would have been pretty fabulous. So we went under contract, and we put in the contract that it had to be a PZD so that certain parts of it could be saved.
 And the city couldn't handle a PZD that was like 500 acres and so it didn't happen and they zoned it four units to the acre on the mountain and I said that's going to turn it into hamburger and we've been through a lot of misery thinking that this was going to be lost.
 So we are very grateful to the Waltons, to the Walton Family Foundation, to the city, and we own the property on the east side of the bypass too. And I would like to bring for your consideration, which is good to consider it before anything's happening because I think it's getting ready to bust loose.
 that as a way to help promote. Oh, 30 seconds. OK, as a way to help support this park, that when there is parkland dedication money in lieu of, that it could be earmarked for this park, which I think is appropriate because of the association.
 Also, I personally know there's a ton of history there, and we would like to participate in historical markers that could be an educational resource for children in all ages. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who would like to address this next? Thank you, Paula. Thank you, Paula.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, I'm Steve Clark of it 438 East Fairwood Fairway Lane, not Fairwood, Fairway Lane in Fayetteville. I'm the president and chief executive officer of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
 Our executive committee met today, Mr. Mayor, at the lunch hour, and we discussed this meeting tonight and what I should say. And they gave me three points to make, but if you'll allow me a moment of privilege, I'd like to ad lib just for a second. Based on what has been said before me, we would just like to say amen. Good message. The three points are these. Number one.
 On behalf of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Mayor, we want to thank you for having the courage and the foresight and the wisdom to embrace this opportunity.
 Wasn't done easily, I'm sure, and it has this opportunity to have critics we know, but we appreciate that because had you not embraced this opportunity, we wouldn't even be having this discussion. So compliments to you. Number two, if you pass this resolution and do nothing else, we benefit. We absolutely benefit for economic development because not just the tree canopy, but that's important. Not just the view shed, but that's important.
 but because you bring certainty to an important track of land at the heart of our city. And people who develop like to develop when they know the certainty about what is around them. They don't have to take risks. So they know that the risk here is the only thing around them is a spectacular piece of green dough. And so if you do nothing else but pass this resolution, buy this land, and just save it for posterity, it will be a catalyst for growth. I can promise you that.
 If, on the third point, you take this plan that I know you're going to be working on, the other things you do that, and we're able to implement some of these grand ideas,
 then there will be very grand things that will happen in our community, not only catalyst to growth around this centennial open space, but also around our community as a whole. And as many have mentioned, it will be a magnet to attract talent. It will be a magnet to attract visitors. It will be a magnet to attract residents. And it will be a magnet to get the world to be knowledgeable about who and what we are.
 We're getting ready to have a conference here for nowhere programmers trying to hire programmers and they don't know where Fayetteville or Northwest Arkansas is So it's nowhere so we're telling them come to nowhere because there's trails in nowhere and there's Appropriate cost of living and because there's outdoor activities and goes there's great libraries and go to nowhere You'll get us off this nowhere list if you do this in this resolution. Thank you, mr. Mayor. Thanks Who else likes addresses?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sorry. Oh, yes, please. Mayor and council, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bread Street. I live right close by the Boys and Girls Club and Owl Creek. I just want to commend Mayor Jordan, his chief of staff, Don Moore, and the Walton Family Foundation, our city council, and all the other city staff and people who have worked on this to potentially preserve these 220 acres on top of Millsops and Elmwood.
 Preserving Millsaps Mountain is very important for myriad reasons. Not only is the mountain part of the Illinois and Whitewater River Sheds, but there are many large trees, several groupings of unusual native plants, including a very large patch of prickly pear or native prickly pear, and many vernal pools, an increasingly rare and precious environmental asset. Furthermore, making Millsaps Mountain a city park and perhaps eventually a mountain biking area will help with the health of our citizens, be an economic boost,
 and tourist attractions and help curtail the illegal deer poaching that happens out there so for all these reasons and more i want to praise the city staff and officials for their forward thinking and finding creative ways to fund this purchase thank you however however please if you do vote for this which i expect you to do not take this commitment to another large community park as a reason or an excuse to ignore the neighborhood parks especially neighborhood parks that already exist and are not safe to use
 fit within the city plan 2030 and are also triple bottom line parks fight for them like you are going to fight hard for Millsaps thank you thank you okay anyone else okay now I'm gonna break back and will be approved the resolution John I second that motion there is there any final comments from the council done
 I'm not the counsel, but I do want to make one final comment on your behalf.
 I think Steve hit a main point, and that is the mayor's vision. And for all the people who he's run three elections, every time someone questions whether we have a leader who has vision. I want to say to you this is a perfect example. And if you don't believe it, I want you to go back to his 2018 State of the City Address. He made a statement in that address that said, we must continue to forge ahead.
 Make sure that we don't move to the safe zone. We must remain consistent and steady, taking just the right bold risk to set things in motion for the future. It's not a question of whether, but will be when and at what pace.
 And this is a perfect example, I think, when he's talking about those types of opportunities to come before us, that you don't always know when they're going to happen, what piece of land they're going to be talking about, where it might impact us, but it's being open to considering them when they come before you. It may be good times or sometimes at not the best times.
 but at times when you still have to have the courage to move forward and so we believe it's consistent with as you've heard tonight all the reasons and hope that you will move forward and act on this because if you do choose to do that we have a very tight turnaround to make it happen before the end of March I would like to say some thank yous and then we'll go ahead
 with the vote. I want to thank Chief of Staff and Devin Howland and Paul Becker, Kit Williams, the staff that worked on this. I mean this, we're here tonight, but it was not after a considerable period of time of working together and figure out what's best for this city. I know that this is not the last
 Bold move that you're going to see in the next six months We're going to be looking at things like parking plan first steps transportation plan welcoming plan first steps on our energy action plan Peter and I have some ideas on that You're gonna be looking at a bond list and pay plan and a workforce development plan for the city in the next six months So you're going to be looking at a lot of stuff. We're going to bring it and
 You can pass it, not pass it, make amendments to it, but we're going to bring some things. So I certainly want to thank everybody that worked on this. I want to thank Centennial Bank for Walton Family when they came to me with this proposal a few months ago. I said, I don't have the, I'm sorry, that's a great opportunity. I don't have the matching money. They said, well, let's run this by you.
 We'll give you a no interest loan for five years. And I said, I'll bring it. And so we went to work on it, and then we're done. Devin went to work on it real hard to get things done, and I really appreciate that because you're always as good as your supporting cast. You never get anywhere by yourself. It always takes people helping you.
 And I've been fortunate as a mayor to have a tremendous team in place and everybody working together. I've got, I certainly want to thank, I know y'all haven't voted yet, but I want to thank the council members. I know this was something that's a decision. Sarah, I had the same questions that you did tonight. It's really kind of ironic that I asked Paul what about this and what about that. But this week had one shot at this and I had to make the call and I made the call. And now it's your turn to make the call.
 So with that, I want to thank everybody that's been involved. I think it's going to be a great acquisition. We're going to protect 200 acres of urban forest, mountain biking, and a great help with the quality of life. And I think it's just a real win-win for the city. So anyway, that's my two cents worth. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Mark. Yes. Amen. Yes. Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Right.
 yes yes thank you all very much all right number two on new business thank you all thank you all for all your support as well out there uh number two an ordinance to rezone that property describing the zoning petition rzn 18-6076 for approximately 0.47 acres located
 203, 205, and 207 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 at the City Council city of federal arts are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville To collect the zoning change provided in section 1. No, are you got that mayor and council? This is this change zone is on three lots caddy corner across from the library on the west side of West Street The ownership of the land to the west is public and south is public and
 It's in the downtown master plan area which encourages a variety of housing types and encourages preserving the traditional town form. District request is consistent with both of those goals. Issues are it allows narrow lots in the existing neighborhood conservation district and it allows two family, three family and four family by right and the planning commission staff recommend approval.
 What questions do we have regarding this? Anybody? Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Adela. We suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Yeah. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Brad. Yes. Mark. Yes. Ian. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Munch. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in rezoning petition RZN 18-6076 for approximately .47 acres, located at 203, 205, and 207 Southwest Avenue, from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. I second that motion. Okay. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. March? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Butch? Yes. LeCher? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Yes. And in order to rezone that property, it's described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6076 for approximately .47 acres located at 203, 205, and 207 Southwest Avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban. Okay. Any final comments from the council?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-6046 for approximately 29 acres located east of Greens Chapel Road from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 the mayor council this is an appeal from the funding commission's denial of requests that rezoned from residential agriculture to rsf for the properties located south of weddington and east of double springs road the
 The reason for the recommendation for denial was because the adopted City 2030 plan designates this area as appropriate for rural residential area, which envisions more protection of lower density rural areas and agriculture uses. To give you a little bit of a broader view of where it's located,
 It is just south of the Owl Creek floodplain and the green area is the area designated in City Plan 2030 for rural residential and the yellow areas are the existing subdivisions that are designated for residential neighborhood.
 As you can see, two sides are basically existing residential neighborhoods. The other two sides are more rural agricultural, lower density development presently. The issues I already mentioned and compatibility with existing neighborhoods.
 staff and Planning Commission recommended denial. I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. What questions do we have for Connor on this? I'm sure the applicant is here as well. They were one of the addresses. Yeah, good evening. Blake Jorgensen. We appreciate all taking the time to consider this. We typically don't like to appeal staff or Planning Commission's denial. In this case, we simply
 we're stuck with this surrounding property and the fact that we have street stub outs that were designed and designated to create block link connectivity in a pattern that's consistent with a more neighborhood development pattern.
 We've just kind of gone through the highlights. I know y'all are more familiar with this now that it's kind of gotten in front of y'all. But we do have amenities, commercial amenities that are half a mile to the northwest, one and a half miles to the east. You have Owl Creek School, Boys and Girls Club, the city's nice Rupert Road that we're happy to work on with, and you're two and a half miles from the interstate, so it's
 based on I think when a genus session we had a I thought it was a good way to put it is is this compatible harmonious, and I think that
 Looking at the big picture, it's hard for us to tie into these existing streets and develop something that's not consistent with the property that's already developed around it. So I don't want to be long-winded. I'd like to answer questions you all may have. The owner here, Carl Walker, is here present tonight. He'll have a few words, and I'd like to be able to come back up to the podium and take some questions if you all have any for me. So thanks a lot. Mr. Walker, you want to address this?
 My name is Carl Walker. I'm the owner of the property and hopefully the developer of the property as well. Mr. Mayor, Council, it's nice to be able to get up front and ask you for this, to take a look at this rezoning request. We are in no way trying to argue with the City Planning Commission in any way. However, you can see, by the way, the streets go into this property and how it fits with the other ones. It is a perfect fit for this.
 It was designed to do this. We had drawn this up several years ago, and when the economy slowed down, we just put it on the back burner, put it on the shelf at that time. In hindsight, we probably should have rezoned at that time, but since that time, the 2030 plan has came in.
 It really has changed the overview of it, but it hasn't changed what fits in this piece of property right here. This is like a puzzle piece that is perfect for a RSF4. It was designed for this originally, and I would just like to have your consideration to do so. One of the things that Fayetteville, as well as all the towns in northwest Arkansas, one of the biggest requests there is right now is for affordable housing.
 With the 2030 plan with the two-acre lots, that's just not a possibility. It's just not a feasible thing. And we would like to be able to put some houses in there that would be in the affordable range that would fit for the area and would be a good fit for the west side of Fayetteville. I appreciate your time. I'll be glad to answer any questions if you have any. And thank you very much. Okay. Y'all help me out here. Exactly how  is Rupa west of that? Yeah.
 It's east. This is west of Rupel. So it's west of Rupel. How far? Let me get the map back. Rupel is the blue right here. See this blue line on the edge? Got it. And the parcel is right here. So it's a goodclose to a mile. I'm good. All right, John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Stoll, could you give us examples of potential uses of rural agricultural? In my mind, they grow soybeans. The rural agriculture district allows one unit per two acres residential, and of course that allows also the agricultural uses.
 I feel strongly that we should allow this landowner to develop his land. I realize it's not infill development, but it's just like Mr. Walker told us. A two-acre lot, you can't build a house that's affordable, that's economical. You'd be building practically a mansion on a two-acre lot. And that's not in our 2030 plan. And it seems to me like with housing developments on two sides of it, it would fit very nicely.
 a housing development of this nature that he's proposing, and that zoning classification. So I wouldn't see any reason to deny this request. Thank you. Great. Any other questions from the Council? Any public comment on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the Council.
 Thank you. I agree with staff and planning commission's assessment of this property that RMF, or the four units per acre, is not an appropriate land use. Based on our 2030 plan, you know, we're supposed to be discouraging suburban sprawl, and I would say that this
 parcel probably has a walk score of zero and that you can't walk anywhere it's well outside our box around the city its adjacency to the floodplain means that developing this land could exacerbate flooding issues downstream and as far as affordable housing affordable housing there's a caveat of that the the cost of transportation um
 And the further out you get, the more you're going to spend on transportation dollars. So even though the housing costs may be less, the transportation costs go up, and so that affects the affordability of any development out here. So I think that we need to say no to suburban sprawl and support the decision of planning staff and the Planning Commission and deny this appeal. Thank you. John?
 Mr. Mayor, it's a drum I've been beating for some time. I have nothing against infill development, nothing against the urban look, but we need to recognize that not everybody in Fayetteville is the same. We need to have variety in the marketplace, and if that goes against the 2030 plan to let this happen, to allow people to have a place to live on the edge of town, then we
 who prefer to live on the edge of town, why should we try to fit a square peg in a round hole? Why don't we let the market offer variety? I don't view it as a great immoral breach by letting this landowner develop his land with affordable housing in an area of town that is growing.
 I agree with Councilmember Marsh, it will cost more to drive there than to drive somewhere in downtown. But many people are economically affluent enough, sufficient, to cover that cost. And it would be a waste just to hold the land there with no development, particularly when we have someone willing to develop it. And remember, we have a housing shortage in Fayetteville. And I've said this before, if we were in the middle of the Sahara Desert, we would
 Well, people just have to suck it up and live with it. But we're not in the middle of Sahara Desert. We have Greenland, we have West Fork, we have Springdale, we have Johnson, we have Formington particularly that we're competing with for offering housing. And those folks are, we're going to vote on something tonight. Formington is moving ahead. And if we stand by these goals that prohibit development, we're going to miss out.
 And let me tie this into the underpayment of our staff. Each new house that goes in brings in economic development to our city. Read your electric bill if you haven't read it lately. You're being charged sales tax on the customer charge, the fuel charge, the discharge, and that charge. Every charge on your electric bill. That's sales tax for payable. So that's another reason to be pro-development. So we have the budget...
 to pay for our new regional bike park, to pay for the salary increases, to pay for the walkable communities downtown. We need those sales tax dollars, and that's why I'll be supporting it.
 We talked about sprawl and this one has me a little conflicted. It's not further out than the edge of the residential developments there already. I'm not usually one to say let's let our past bad decisions prompt new ones, but this is already single family on
 Two sides developed, three sides zoned, and there's more that's not. The streets are there. There's no houses there. I'm curious, when was that resounding in the same area to the same zone? Do we know when that was changed? I'm not sure. Let me see if Andrew 
 You're talking about the neighborhood to the west and the neighborhood to the south? Yeah. This is a recent development. The streets have just been installed, but I don't know when it was zoned. That was zoned RSF4, I believe. It's part of a phase of legacy that was approved quite a while ago and is just now being built out. Okay. So I guess knowing that we've done that,
 We talked about Farmington. We're going to discuss that next. I'd invite some of my more experienced colleagues to educate me on what  where is our line for sprawl? Go ahead. Well 
 i'm sorry when justin was up okay go ahead when we approved the ruple road extension there was the understanding that that was going to be the western edge the western growth boundary of the city for all intents and purposes and so this far falls way outside of that ruple road area and then out beyond that was supposed to be agricultural enduring green network area and so a lot of these other subdivisions were approved before we
 did that deal and the assumption is that we're going to try to concentrate new growth within that the mayor's box around the city or directly adjacent to it. And I can give you just a little bit of history because I was a council member over there and those came in I don't know if I supported those or not I have a probably an idea I probably
 Before I became a council member, but we did in 2006, we defined those growth boundaries, which one side was Ripple Road and the other side was Crossover. So we determined to try an infill from there in, and that's where we are today. I'm not a council member over there anymore, so all we know. If I can add one comment on that, this is an area that has changed in 2000 and...
 or whenever the last 2011 when we were in our economic downturn, the council redid a portion of this plan. Prior to that, this area was signified as residential development, which is why you see what you see around it. It was the contraction by the council at that time is why nothing else developed.
 The staff report, which this time says denial, is because the plan changed. Prior to that, the staff report would have been in support of this. This is really one of those that kind of caught between two different 2020-2025 plan updates where the council made a change during the economic downturn in 2011.
 We're going to restrict all the strong stuff. I do want to add one other thing. I'm sorry, Justin. I promise I won't interrupt you again. Okay.
 This is the very discussion, really, in the 2030 plan that we really need to have council direction on policy about, because there's still a lot of confusion on what we define as sprawl. There are people who feel like that we'll look at the Rupert Road discussion when you talk about that and say we shouldn't develop something on the west side of that, and yet at the same time we are making million-dollar investments worldwide.
 in a row that you would want to see development on both sides in order to capture the economic benefit in hopes of any contribution to it so this a dialogue that Garner will be taking us through with his team with you in the future is something that we really need to get an idea because we have people who call sprawl one-and-a-half miles from the city center I mean we're people who thought that Ruskin Heights was sprawl
 So it really is about identifying what that is, unlike a Houston where it's 25 miles to one side of it. But.
 This is one of those kind of caught in the middle between two plans. I just, that's the point. And then this discussion about sprawl and policy, because while that's been a dialogue I think that came forward on Ruppel Road in the discussion, it's not a formal adopted policy by you all yet. It's a boundary that you've looked at.
 that we even have properties coming in today that are directly adjacent to this road that some people would still say is sprawling. I totally agree with what Don said. There will be two questions I think that are relevant when we work on the new plan. The first one is, is the character of the development such, have the services and utilities
 been expanded to such an extent that it fiscally makes sense to allow this area to be developed at a higher density than the residential agriculture district. And the second question is, if that answer is yes, I think the second question is even more critical, which is what character of development are you looking for?
 Are you looking for monotonous rooftops, cookie cover, RSF4 or something perhaps?
 a little more walkable that preserves the natural environment a little better. There are options that can be considered when we do the new plan. And when the city went through the recent Bloomberg housing grant that we got, one of the things that was identified by members of our community was that we really needed more.
 walkable areas around the community that we should in our growth concept maps be identifying areas in West Fayetteville, South Fayetteville, North Fayetteville, not just downtown in the urban core that allowed this walkability much like you see if you're in Alexandria, which I just was, there's Delray, there's
 the rail yard area. There's a lot of other areas that may not be walkable between them, but are walkable around that area. And so that's the other component, I think, that needs to be taken into this discussion, so that if there are people from an equity perspective whose job might be out that way and want to live there and do have some access to services, that we have more than one area that is walkable in the city. Yes.
 well don't answer a lot of my first question anyway was going to be the city staff I was a little confused not confused at the Planning Commission but I'm I was confused on city staff on on why the thought process but you explained it really well so thank you for that the only problem I have with following that even though I like the idea of future areas of walkability and things like that this particular piece of land
 is sort of trapped in a no man's land. Because if we say on one hand that we don't want to let anything be sprawl because we want within this box walkability area, then nothing's ever going to get built there because we're never going to pass anything that even becomes walkable because we don't want anything built there at all. And I don't think that's fair to anybody who might want a home there. And this owner developer, who's going
 is not going to invest all his or her money if they don't think that they have a market here. So I look at that from a sky view, and I think, I mean, if we deny it because we don't want sprawl, but we may want someday to create more walkable areas, that sounds really good, but if this is sprawl, then we're not gonna allow anything to go in there really anyway. So this is sort of trapped. And I just don't see why you don't follow the current pattern.
 and allow this to happen this way, and then let the market decide what happens. Given where this is, the region is growing, and I do think that there's property available within the box, but we're sort of telling people
 look within the box and hopefully there's land there that you can that you can build walkable areas that we agree with but don't look at property around this outskirt area even though in most cities this is nowhere close to outskirts of anything to John's point about Houston this would be looked at as extremely convenient area of services and interstates and schools and everything else this is actually a really good spot so I don't
 i don't i don't care if we vote on it tonight and hold it but i can promise you if we do vote on it uh i'm gonna support letting this
 letting this be rezoned so that this person can proceed because it just looks like that's the proper fit. And rather than get caught in the what ifs and what we should do inside a box or outside of a box, let's think outside the box and let this happen. I'm still a little confused why the surrounding area allows it and fits with it, but we don't think so. So I respect everybody's opinion, but I'll agree with
 Councilmember Latour for one. Okay. Sarah Bunch. Well, this is something that leaves me pretty conflicted because I'm a big proponent of infill and walkability myself and generally support projects like that.
 as opposed to projects that I think are on the outside of town and might increase, you know, the burden for all of us. Sarah, your mic's not on. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm just not doing very well tonight for some reason. I'm either leaving it on or leaving it off. Let me kind of go over that again here. Generally, I am a proponent of walkability and infill and things of that nature, and I support those throughout our city.
 And I don't usually support projects that I think contribute to suburban sprawl and you could say this is maybe contributing to that. But on the other hand, I also see the challenges that people face trying to find affordable housing in Fayetteville and I can tell you that affordable housing for most people is
 for a lot of people is not in central Fayetteville. I mean, that's where I live, and I'm lucky to live there, but for a lot of the people that I work with as a real estate agent, it's just not an option. And so they are looking outside the city limits of Fayetteville. They're looking in Elkins. They're looking in Farmington, Prairie Grove, places like that. And I just feel like, you know, this is what my conflict is here. You know, I don't necessarily...
 like this exactly but I'm not exactly against it either because I understand the Need for affordable housing and that just that just does not end up all the time in the middle of Fayetteville Sorry, thank you. Okay, mark This is very tough for me to say too because I'm going to go right along with the arguments that we just heard from this bunch as a banker
 Every day I'm faced with trying to find affordable housing with an affordable mortgage plan for families of modest means. This is in a rural development area, and so there are programs that would allow a family to get into this with a rural development loan. These loans are specifically for this type of development.
 I have compassion for these individuals that have looked and looked and looked and looked for affordable housing in Fayetteville, and they can't find it. That doesn't mean that they don't deserve the opportunity to have a home.
 I don't think that anyone can count on me in the future to break my rules on suburban sprawl, but if you look at this specific piece of property, we have the capacity as far as water and sewer. We have the capacity for growth since it's already on, if you look at the development around it, to develop this property in an affordable manner.
 and so i had to balance a lot of that affordability and opportunity for some people that i know personally on a daily basis that are struggling to find a place to live this is not ideal there's a lot of things about this that is not ideal but i'm going to support the development of this property
 because I do see it as an opportunity for affordable housing for people that otherwise won't have it. It's not so far away from services that I think it's going to make transportation a large issue. It will be an issue for some, for many, but the individuals that are looking for a rural development loan,
 are employed, but they're not employed in jobs that allow them to live in the center of Fayetteville. And we don't have transportation in the center of Fayetteville at this point, and I look forward to that happening one of these days. I didn't come in here with a preconceived notion, but I also have driven by this property four times recently.
 to try to figure out what an opportunity would look like for a family that needs an affordable home. And I think that this is accessibility for an affordable home, so I'm going to support that. And it's very hard for me because it's against a lot of my core values, but the basic value that has pushed me over is an affordable home with a rural development loan.
 that's what pushed me over there you go okay i guess we've had the conversation about affordable housing enough now that i've got a question for mr walker um
 Knowing how far out Weddington this is in transportation costs, can you put a number on what you consider affordable housing on this area? Affordable housing for any of this area I would think would probably be around the 200 grains, 175 to maybe two range, something in that area right there. That's one thing that's always driven the affordable housing market to the west side of Fayetteville because of the terrain out there allows you to get some pretty good yield on your lots. The east
 it just doesn't work. So if you're going to have more affordable, it's going to have to go that way. And I know that some of you, I think, welcome it. And I'm glad you do. And I look forward to being able to add something to the study of Fayetteville and give us some more affordable housing out there. Thank you. Thanks, sir. OK. Matt. Oh, sorry, Mark. It looks like someone's gone. No, I'm happy. OK. Matt. One quick question. How big would a $200,000 house be?
 I'm sorry. I'll stay up if you have more questions. That's my only question. The housing market right now anywhere in the western part of Fayetteville is anywhere from probably $110 to $120 a foot. So a $200,000 house, make an easy figure, probably 1,800 square foot, something like that.
 They'll run anywhere the surrounding area to the south of it in the legacy that was up there. I think you've got anywhere from 15 to probably 1,800, 1,900 square foot. The Green's Chapel Road going to the west, there's some larger homes there. Some of the homes are putting in on the legacy phase five that was just finished up. That's kind of a mixed deal. I think you're going to see some 1,700, 1,800 square foot house from what I understand from some of the guys that I've talked to there.
 I guess a couple of things. I don't think sprawl versus infill is the right way to talk about this, but there were some questions I wanted to at least make an attempt to answer.
 When we talk about walkability, it doesn't have anything to do with how far a place is from somewhere else. Walkability means that you've got an opportunity to park once and do more than one thing and that's it. So if you can park in your driveway and you can walk to something that otherwise you might have to drive to, you're one notch up on walkability. If you can drive to a district and walk to more than one thing that you might like to
 You're one notch up on walkability and it really is that simple. It doesn't have anything to do with how far a place is from another. All that said, there's no such thing as walkability when you only have four units to the acre anywhere on the planet.
 But you can't achieve that because your distances from most homes in that environment on average are too great for people to actually walk. That's not to say that somebody living on the corner property on the access road won't be able to walk to something, but your average resident wouldn't be able to walk to something. But again, I don't think that's the right frame for this decision. It's not the frame I'm using.
 the frame i'm using is all about uh is this a good fiscal decision for for for the city
 And so to answer that question, I look back to the history of how the city's grown a little bit. We didn't generally build neighborhoods like this in Fayetteville until about the 70s. There were a couple that predate that but most of what we've seen has happened since the 70s. And starting in the 70s, the rate of land annexed into the city, the size of the city, the geography of the city grew at a rate that's three times faster than the population grew.
 It grew through subdivisions that were built at generally four units to the acre or less in this location and even a little bit further to the east and to the northwest of the city and the southeast of the city. Anyway, this is a typical development pattern. That's why you see so much of it out towards the edges. Here's the thing. If you ask yourself, how many years' worth of road work are we behind on?
 or how many years worth of sidewalk work or water and sewer upgrades are we behind on? It's not the answer that's important, it's the fact that we're behind that's important. And the reason we're behind is because this pattern doesn't generate enough revenue to pay for itself.
 That's what it means. And if we are getting farther and farther behind as we go along, I think we're kidding ourselves if we say, well, this kind of property is still going to have its roads paved in 50 years. It can't afford to pay for it. There's not enough revenue coming in from this kind of thing to pay for the amount of roadway it requires or the amount of water and sewer pipe it requires. And that's just because the houses are a little bit too spread out.
 So for me it doesn't have anything to do with sprawl or infill, it has to do with this isn't a pattern that I can afford to vote to keep paying for all the time. The money just won't be there whenever it's time to replace the roads again. Sarah? Thank you.
 council member petty just hit on some of the points that i was going to talk about that you know rsf4 development does not pay for the cost of infrastructure to maintain it but also you know we talk about affordable housing and a key part of this discussion is
 It's about right size housing and we have an abundance of the single family, three bedroom, two bath homes but the dynamics of the demographics of our households are changing. We're already over 75% child free households and that number is going to rise.
 because of empty nesters, because of people delaying housings. We're having non-custodial households and families of divorce. So a lot of the housing affordability discussion isn't that we don't have enough housing. It's that we don't have the right kind of housing.
 And here we are building more of the type of housing that we have a lot of and not building the type of right-sizing houses for the retirees, the aging baby boomer generation, and thinking what our demographics are going to look like in 10 years. And it's probably, we don't have a shortage of the three-bedroom, two-bath suburban home. We've got plenty of that.
 I think we need to listen to what the experts are telling us and whether that's the experts on our planning staff Whether that's the experts on our planning commission Whether that's the experts on this council that have studied housing issues and we're saying no, this is a bad idea So I hope that you will have some faith in The people that you've hired to advise us or that we've appointed to advise us or have been elected to advise us and say no To this development. Thank you mark
 We recently completed our 20-year water plan and I went and looked at it. And in this area, actually, we are not struggling for infrastructure and the cost of infrastructure.
 It's on the east side of town, not on the west side of town. So if we're talking about patterns, everything that Councilmember Petty said and everything that Councilmember Marsh said is absolutely true. We cannot afford to continue with a pattern like this in areas that are not already part of our infrastructure plan, but in this specific piece of property, and that's why I want to
 In the future, don't be counting on this if you're going to come and expect my vote one way or the other. But in this specific piece of property, we already have the investment in the infrastructure with the capital
 available to expand into this at this density without causing additional pressure on the capital improvements that will be needed to move forward. So I'm
 I'm only looking at this specific property and I encourage anyone to go look at our 20-year plan and you can see that we have the capacity in this specific property without any undue pressure on our capital expense in the future. So that was a part of my thought on this.
 Again, I'm not supporting a pattern of this just to continue outside the mayor's box or whatever you want to call it. So there you go.
 I may not have explained my point very clearly, so I just wanted to take one more stab at it. I know that installing infrastructure in a place like this can be very inexpensive relatively. It's a green field. It's close to the facilities.
 That's without question. I'm speaking specifically about the revenue that we accumulate over time to maintain and replace that infrastructure. The 100 feet after it's been installed of sewer that needs to be replaced on this site costs the same for 100 feet that needs to be replaced on another road in another place of town. That might not be for 30 years or 40 years or even longer with new technology, but that bill is going to become due someday. There is no math.
 that will account for the tax revenue that needs to be collected when we're building at four units breaker that will cover those replacement costs for roadways and for water and sewer the only math that makes that work is higher taxes or a radical increase in the number of homes on the site well we're on the first reading what would you all like to do mark
 I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. John. I second that motion, Mayor. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I apologize. Mark? No, John was the seconder, right? I got it. Okay. Ray? Yes. Mark? Yes. Ginnis? Yes. Betty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 and your ordinance to rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition rzn 17-6046 for approximately 29 acres located east of greens chapel road from r.a residential agricultural to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre adela i i move that we suspend the rose we call the third reading john second that motion there you have a motion second to go to the third and final reading sonny would you please call the run
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 right there okay any final comments kyle um i'd like to thank everybody for the edifying conversation here um because i think it really helped me put a finger on what has been bothering me about this one it's it's not sprawl um weddington is another four-lane highway that we've invested millions in and i think it can support development as well but it is the long-term stability on this and
 when we start talking about transportation costs added on to a house that might be marginally affordable it gets unaffordable real quick and if this came back with greater density i might be more in favor of it even though our plan says rural i don't think that that's the the best use of the land in this area but i'm not sure that rsf4 is either thanks
 Okay. Any other comments? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Right. Okay. This is whether or not the ordinance will pass, the rezoning ordinance. So yes is yes. Mark? No. Dickens? Yes. Petty? No. Kinnett? Yes. Dunn? Yes. O'Farris? Yes. Nguyen? No. Okay. It passes. Okay. All right. All right.
 Now, Sandra, do you need a break? I promised I would never work this past 8 o'clock, and you've had a break. Go ahead, not now. All right. You let me know if you need a break, and we will shut this down for a little while. Okay. Number four, an ordinance to approve the city of Farmington's rezoning of the property described in rezoning petition RZN.
 2018-0090 for approximately 126.03 acres located at Double Springs Road from I-1 Agricultural District to R-1 Single Family Residential KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the City of Farmington's rezoning of that property ascribed in a rezoning petition to RZN 2018-0090 for approximately 126.03 acres.
 located at Double Springs Road from A1 Agricultural District to R1 Single Family Residential because this rezoning is compatible to and will not adversely impact the adjoining property within our corporate limits.
 And I've got to say that actually according to state law we only have to do a resolution, so I apologize for writing an ordinance that we had to spend the rules on. Secondly, we are not actually approving this rezoning. We are just or you're just considering whether or not the rezoning in Farmington is compatible to and will not adversely impact the adjoining property within our own city limits.
 Farmington made the decision to rezone, but in order to have it be effective, the City Council must concur with that and say that it will not adversely impact our property and will be compatible with our property. So that's the issue before you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Could you clarify if you mean adverse impact of the abutting property? Yes. Merely the abutting property? I think that is what they're looking at.
 I guess it's not crystal clear in there, but I think really that's what it's looked at. When this has happened before, we've rezoned property and Johnson and other places have approved it, but it's really the adjoining property is what they're talking about and whether it's going to be compatible with that and will not adversely impact it.
 they were building a rendering plant there you might not want to approve that if you're if they were going to i1 or i2 something like that might not be compatible with residential property that is in Fayetteville but here we're looking at residential property and residential property Bob I should let Garner explain this
 Since you are a planning guru. Very quickly, the Farmington Council approved rezoning from A1, the agriculture district, to R1. As Kit mentioned, state law allows adjacent cities to confirm whether it's compatible. Our districts that are R1 and R2.
 It's a little bit more restrictive than Farmington, but in our opinion it's clearly compatible. It's basically the same uses. I looked at that statute and it really talks about whether the enjoyment and use of this property is harmed by their zoning action on the other side of the city limit boundary. That's what the statute talks about.
 Okay, thank you. That sounds substantially different than, for instance, what we might have considered in the previous. Yes, it's vastly different than your previous consideration. Any other questions from the council? Okay, any public comment on this? Okay, bring it back to the council. John.
 Mayor, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. We just need a motion to pass. Motion? Well, it's an issue once. It's not in the resolution. Well, it should have been a resolution. You can move to amend it to a resolution if you want to, or else you can suspend the rules and we'll go through the readings. Okay, okay. Your choice. Suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. All right. Adele? I second that. Okay, we have a motion to go to the second reading. Sundance, please call the roll.
 Yes. March? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Munch? Yes. Mature? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 I move we suspend the roads and go to the third and final reading.
 in order to approve the city of farmington's rezoning of that property described in a rezoning petition rzn 2018-0090 for approximately 126 acres located at double springs road from a1 agricultural district to r1 single family residential any final comments from the council okay sounder would you please call the road right yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, number five. An ordinance to amend Article 11 Environmental Action Committee and Chapter 33 Department's Forge Commissions and Authorities of the Federal Code to add consideration of climate mitigation and adaptation strategies and policy recommendations regarding energy efficiency and clean energy to the purpose of the committee. Kip.
 whereas the energy action plan adopted by the city council on february 7 2017 contains a recommendation to amend the purpose and duties of the environmental action committee to include a focus on climate mitigation and adaption strategies and policy recommendations regarding energy efficiency and clean energy now therefore it be ordained by the city council the city of section 1
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends Section 33.240, Purpose and Duties of Article 11, Environmental Action Committee, by enacting new Subsections A4 and A5 as follows, quote, Subsection 4, to research and recommend climate mitigation strategies that the community can implement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimize the negative consequences of climate change.
 to promote and recommend policies that encourage energy efficiency efforts and increase the clean energy supply throughout the community
 good evening mayor and council in 1995 the city created the environmental concerns committee in 2009 the name of the environmental concerns committee was changed to the environmental action committee i serve as the staff liaison to the city's environmental action committee currently the purpose and duties of the environmental action committee are to address environmental concerns to promote the safe
 safe, healthy environment and to maintain the natural beauty of environment within our city. Additionally, they are charged with making recommendations to other city committees and the city council on matters concerning the environment.
 As was mentioned, the recently adopted Energy Action Plan contained two recommendations under the cross-sector goal sector with regard to the Environmental Action Committee. Those recommendations include amending their charter to include considerations of climate mitigation and adaptation strategies and to include policy recommendations regarding energy efficiency efforts and clean energy purchasing decisions.
 Those recommendations are consistent with recommendations in the STAR Communities Guide. STAR stands for Sustainable Tools for Assessing and Rating Communities. Fayetteville is currently a three-star community. The Environmental Action Committee discussed these recommendations at their last meeting in January and unanimously approved amending their charter to include these recommendations. Okay. Any questions from Peter on this? Any public comment on this?
 Sorry, John. I apologize. No problem. This is really for our city attorney. Kit, could you tell us, the members of the Environmental Action Committee, what legal liabilities would they have if they recommended something?
 and it turned out to be a boondoggle and people lost money, would they have any legal responsibility? I believe they would have zero liabilities on that. They are an advisory committee. They can give us, or you I should say, you and the mayor advice, and then it's up to you to decide whether you're going to take that advice or not. And then when you would make a decision, it's probably normally going to be a legislative decision by the City Council,
 which are granted great deference by the courts, and I'm sure that it would never be arbitrary and capricious, so it would never be overturned. Okay. So if we pass this ordinance, will that change in any way?
 There will still be advisory? Yes, right. None of your advisory committees have any ultimate authority. All of the advisory committees are simply to provide advice to you and then the City Council always makes a decision and even your alderman committee, nominating committee or other committees, it's the City Council that makes the final decision as a body.
 Thank you. But also a council member could sponsor a recommendation from the committee, could they not? Certainly. You could bring resolutions or even ordinances forward, and then it would be up to city council whether or not to adopt them.
 I just might add, and I think it's important whenever we have these discussions about city advisory committees, because at times we will have people who will be mad because some council member brought an item directly to the council rather than going to the advisory committee. I want to make it clear for the minutes that that is not a requirement. Council members, the mayor, any elected official, any person's name on a ballot.
 can bring an item to this council without having to go through a committee. So all of our committee members are advisory in nature. That's right. An elected official can bring anything they want to this council, including myself. I'll also remind the council that the Environmental Action Committee consists of 11 citizens from the City of Fayetteville, one council member. Council member Bunch currently serves in that position, one member from local industry, one member from a science discipline, and then eight citizens at large.
 I might also add that this is one very strong, active citizen committee. And we appreciate their feedback because just like tonight on the Centennial land purchase, while we didn't take items to these committees for feedback because of the sensitivity of the issue or the timing of the issue, they are engaged. They do read the packet. And they came and gave you their input, which is what we want to see out of our advisory committees. CHRIS JERRAM, Yeah.
 But again, like I can make that call and bring it to the City Council, you don't have to support it, but I don't have to take my actions through an advisory committee, nor do you. Where are we? Did I ask for public comment on this? Anybody remember? Anybody like to chime in on it? Okay.
 I'm bringing it back to you all. What would you like to do? Sarah? I would just like to attest to the extraordinarily high caliber of the applicants that we get for this committee. This is one of the most sought after committees.
 It's common to have PhDs and experts in their fields applying for this committee, and we are so fortunate that we have so many citizen experts that donate their time to help us make informed decisions on environmental issues. So with that, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yeah kyle was the second to write kyle got it okay right yes yes yes yes yes yes no yeah yes
 And your ordinance amend Article 11, Environmental Action Committee, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fable Code to add consideration of climate mitigation and adaption strategies and policy recommendations regarding energy efficiency and clean energy to the purpose of the committee. Adela. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Honorable, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Article 11, Environmental Action Committee, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fable Code, to add consideration of climate mitigation and adaption strategies and policy recommendations regarding energy efficiency and clean energy to the purpose of the Committee.
 Okay. Any final comments? I would just like to echo what Councilmember March said about the incredible caliber of this committee and they're going to talk about these things whether we put it on their purview or not. They're not going to wait for us to say are these things we should be talking about because they're on top of it.
 Occasionally the conversation comes up about whether or not they have the authority. I think we've cleared up their authority tonight, but I think they would appreciate the clarity of knowing that we do want their feedback on this. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. All right. Anything else? Okay. Sergeant, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Yes. City Manager Binder, Keddie, Kinnett, French, Yes. City Manager Binder, Kinnett, French, No. City Manager Binder, Kinnett, Yes. City Manager Binder, Kinnett, Yes. Okay. Well that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, several announcements tonight. For citizens who utilize our trail system for
 their transportation to and from do realize we have a significant section closed on the Greenway it's Frisco trail between maple and Frisco for a rebuild situation over closed 24 hours a day from today through the 23rd it could be delayed slightly because of the weather impact that
 that we're having on that particular project also I'm sure you all have seen and press releases but just for those public that aren't aware yet the city did add complimentary Wi-Fi public Wi-Fi in ten locations throughout the city in our parks making that available for people
 So we hope you'll try that out and thank our IT department and our communications department for their work to expand these services for people so we can have digital inclusion in our city for multiple providers. We also have a lot of street work taking place, Rebecca Street, Summerhill Drive, areas throughout town. Again, Garland Avenue with a lane closure.
 City's lane closures and traffic impact areas are several projects going on that take place also want to
 Remind citizens that our spring bulky waste cleanups have been set. So for neighborhoods who want to plan cleanups or for you and your ward meetings, if you want to communicate that, the first one is for Ward 1. It's set on March 31.
 All of these are 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. They're part of your current rate that you pay. The locations will be the 1367 South Beachwood, which is Shaver Foods' location, and of course the City's Recycling and Trash Center is a location for all of the cleanups.
 The others are dated on April 7th, April 28th, and May 5th. So you don't have to be in that ward to go to that location. You can use any of them. So if it's more convenient for your neighborhood to have a cleanup day on a location that might be in another ward, you're welcome to do so. And our goal with these is, of course, to keep our city clean and to remove bulky items at no additional cost to our citizens. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm in my 10th year. I think this is my first announcement. Congratulations. Thank you. Here's another 10 years. The local chapter of the Urban Land Institute, if you don't know what the Urban Land Institute is, it's a trade association of developers, planners, anybody who shouldn't have their cities growing, city leaders. Won a grant last fall to study a segment of College Avenue in terms of its health outcomes and its effect on the health of the community.
 That work is coming to a close with a final presentation on Friday. I want to make a special invitation to certainly anybody that's watching, but especially all the members of the council. We are fortunate through the grant to have been able to complete an audit of this two-mile segment looking at all the demographic data and access to amenities for both recreation, nutrition, et cetera.
 And we're also fortunate to bring in eight industry experts, people with expertise in public-private partnerships with health institutions to anchor development, expertise in jurisdictional transfers working with state departments of transportation, and expertise in public health
 commercial development and affordable housing and they are tasked with interviewing more than 48 people on Thursday from the community across all sectors and Developing summary recommendations for presentation on Friday those presentations will be at the town center starting at 1015 and go until 12 I think we start at 1030. I hope you can be there Tonight for first miss mayor. I have a question for Don first time for me to ask a question on I
 Can you explain to the people what items are available to be disposed of on our cleanup days? Just a minute. I'll get it pulled back up. Thank you. Would old computers be on that list? They're not. We do have an electronic e-waste site, but it's not one of those dates that I gave you that's regionally planned. But if you give me a second, I'll give you the very specifics.
 Is there anything, any other announcements? Well, if we're going to stay and talk about this, we shouldn't adjourn. We do not take normal trash. This is to dispose large bulky items that cannot fit in a normal trash cart. It's not household waste. The city has eight bulky waste cleanups a year, four in the spring, four in the fall.
 We take furniture, chairs, couches, mattresses, floor coverings, carpet padding, vinyl flooring, fixtures, plumbing and lighting, outdoor tools, lawn mowers, weed eaters, dry walls, paneling, appliances, refrigerator stoves, washer dryers, hot water heaters, free on bearing appliances, you're allowed one of those. You can dispose of others at additional cost.
 Electronic waste is accepted at the recycling center of the trash and recycling center at Hoppy Hollow only. It is not at the other locations. So we do take electronic e-waste for those items. We don't accept yard waste, dirt, rocks, leaves, grass, commercial garbage, household garbage or household hazardous waste such as automotive fluids, batteries, cleaning chemicals and herbicides. Those can be done at the county's hazardous waste site.
 any other announcements okay thank you all we're adjourned