We call the order to February 20th. We're off here. 2024 City Council meeting. Before we start the City Council meeting, we have the federal union advisory council of the office of Judge Eric Stephenson. Judge Stephenson, we will turn the floor over to you. Where are the youth? Everybody wants to come up? Yes.
 Maybe for a picture, so people can get pictures if y'all want to come back here. Yeah, maybe just face. Well, I don't know. Is that okay to do that? Sure, I can do that. All right. I'm scared. All right. No, no problem.
 All right, so I think we're going to do it all together. And the way I usually do these is I'll read a line and then have you guys repeat it back to me. And the beginning is saying your name, so obviously you'll say your name. And it's swear or affirm, it's your choice. All right? All right, so please raise your right hand for me. Or you can put your hand on your Bible if you have one, however you want to do it. All right. Please repeat after me. I, and then say your name. I, and then say your name.
 Do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Councilmember Fayetteville Youth Advisory Council
 upon which I am now about to enter. Very good. You may put your hands down. All right, I have your oaths. I'm going to give them to Kara and let, because I'm not sure who's going to go. All right, congratulations, guys. Congratulations, you all.
 Now, let's do the roll call, Karen, if you would, please. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Stafford. Here. Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Whitaker. Here. Burnham. Here. Bunch. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all
 Okay, under recognitions, we have an award that we would like to give to Calvin Larson. In recognition, Calvin, would you come forward, please? Here, you want to come up? Yeah, I'm ready. Are you doing fine right now?
 Thank you Calvin for all your work on the youth committee. Thank you. This is a special recognition for you. And let's see, let me read it. Presented to Calvin Larson in recognition of dedication and service to the city of Federal Arkansas and surrounding municipalities in bringing forward a voice for youth in city government. Recognition of service 2023. Calvin, this is yours. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Congratulations, Chelsea. I don't think I was really prepared to say anything today. However, I think
 This experience has really both educated myself and I know all the other students that worked with me on this about how the government works and how it can be so intricate. And at times kind of difficult to get that started, I guess. But I think one thing that it left with me is that it left me with a lot of hope.
 for the city of Fayetteville, and how it's both accommodating for the youth, and it's also working to help bring up that voice. And I think that was my goal, and I hopefully will have achieved that goal by the end of this first term. So thank you. Thank you, Calvin. Okay. All right, I also want to recognize students from the University of Arkansas journalism class. Would you stand and be recognized tonight?
 all of you yes enjoy if you like this one in two weeks we'll have another one all right on the agenda tonight we have first we have the consent agenda um number one approval of the february 6 2024 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to award, a resolution to approve a one-year no-cost lease
 operations agreements with Ozark Natural Science Center to operate in the Lake Federal Environmental Study Center. Number three, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize federal aid funds for the following projects Ruppel Road lighting, Drake Street Trail connection, Millsap Road and College Avenue intersections,
 Stephen Carr Memorial Drive I-49 interchange and MLK walkability improvements. Number four, a resolution to approve an agreement of understanding with RDoC to formalize the city's partnership on the I-49 and Highway 62 interchange improvements project. Number five, a resolution to approve the Transportation Division overlay and sidewalk projects list for 2024 and 2025. Number six.
 A resolution to award bid number 23-47 to authorize a contract with JBZ Incorporated, DBA Ellingson Contracting in the amount of $773,746 for the stabilization of the Porter Warehouse and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $35,000.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with Revival Architecture Incorporated in the amount of $27,000 for construction administration services for the Porter Warehouse Stabilization Project.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve a professional services contract in the amount of $108,000 with engineering elements PLLC pursuant to RFQ 23-01, selection 11 for City Hall HVAC upgrades to approve project contingency of $6,307 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 23-49 and authorize the purchase of a submersible pump from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $103,352.77
 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges for use at the Gregg Avenue Sewer Lift Station. Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 23-50 and to authorize purchase of submersible pump from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $70,807.87 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges for use in the Influent Pond at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 11. A resolution to award bid number 23-51 an authorized purchase of a submersible pump from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $61,644.18 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges for use in the
 Aeration Basin of the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. And number 12, a resolution to approve the grant-funded purchase of TrueNarc handheld narcotics analyzer in the amount of $36,779.57 plus any applicable taxes from the thorough scientific, portable, analytical instruments incorporated. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda's read.
 So moved second motion to second to accept consent agenda is read here. Would you please call the roll? Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford. Yes Jones. Yes more. Yes Whitaker yes, Verna. Yes Yes Okay
 thank you all let's go to unfinished business number one a resolution to approve budget adjustment to create a project budget for an extension of stern street between vanish drive and old missouri road chris thank you mayor just to recap the uh
 Stern Street extension is the completion of a connection between an older Stern Street that comes off of Old Missouri Road with a relatively recent connection or relatively recent street stub that comes off of Vantage Drive. So it would make a complete connection between those two streets.
 The reason we are here to discuss this is that as the development occurred on off advantage
 There were several developments that paid into escrow for the cost of this connection, their portion of the cost of this connection, based on the amount of traffic that they were expected to generate. So the total amount that we've received is about $20,000, $21,000 that has generated some interest, but it's about $21,000.
 The total cost of the project that we've estimated, including street trees and lighting, some additional mitigation, and then sidewalk and traffic calming along the existing section of Stearns is the $482,000. So we're talking about $460,000 of additional funds.
 brief discussions this afternoon about the, what those funds are, the source of those funds. These are existing CIP funds that were in the, actually the 2006 transportation bond project. We had some capital funds left over in that project. So the proposal is to
 create a budget adjustment that would move those into a new project fund so that's the request before you resolution to move those funds I should also mention we did send out the
 the concept of the street, the connection. I had a meeting with the adjacent property owners right at the end of existing Stearns. They had a few questions about potential impacts to their properties and basically the discussion was that we would intend to use existing right-of-way for any sidewalk improvements or anything like that. So there wouldn't be any additional land impacts but,
 Just like we talked about with this, the concept is we really even haven't started the design process. This is just a concept that if the council approves this budget, we would then go into the detailed design and start working on answering a lot of questions that people have about the actual alignment and the final design. So with that, I can take any questions. What questions do we have?
 Chris, a citizen reached out to me today and was concerned about this particular project, but one of the questions they had was if this is approved with the connectivity, is there any communication about improvements to Old Missouri?
 To older yes, because you are making the connection there and and if we're going to talk about using that or for using that connector for potential added traffic there. They were concerned because that is a fairly narrow road or we are we creating another issue. Yeah.
 We haven't discussed that as a potential additional scope. The east side or the west side of old Missouri has recently been improved with the apartment complex that's been installed there or that has developed there. The east side is undeveloped property, so we wouldn't be able to do that.
 we wouldn't expect to do anything there until that property develops. I don't know of any issue, I mean we could certainly look at that, but and I guess the other answer is, um,
 I wouldn't expect traffic on Old Missouri Road to increase necessarily. It may actually decrease a little bit by having the different options that people would have to come off of Stearns and go west instead of having to use Old Missouri Road. So I don't know that that would increase or really have much impact on Old Missouri. Anything else? Okay. I guess we'll get some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber tonight? Hello, here I am again.
 I'm glad to speak before you again. My position is the same, is that I hope that you will vote no to spend these funds to extend Stern Street. I think the $482,000, even though it would cost more to connect it at some point in the future as you all have said. I think the money could be well spent right now to add street lights to Vantage, which
 which has the bike trail coming off of Lake Fayetteville. And the bikes go down there very quickly, and it's very dark. And they go fast.
 I think the money could be used to improve Old Missouri also because you have improved it based on the apartment buildings that have been put in there, but you can't go any farther because then you're walking on the road. I try to walk with Faye to go from Zion all the way back to my house, and it's too dangerous. The cars are still going through there quickly, and it's...
 It's not safe.
 I ask you again to consider that Do not do this part of Stern Street until you're ready to do the other part of Stern Street because it's not going to add That much connectivity. I understand that you all have put a lot of thought and effort into connectivity for the city of Fayetteville And I appreciate that and I use the streets all the time but I think that this money could be spent other ways and I appreciate and
 opportunity to speak before you thank you who else would like to address mr. mayor yes I know that lady but I cannot remember her name oh I'm sorry I don't I didn't I didn't I'm sorry Sarah Karen Karen Percival Bella font gardens I'm sorry thank you
 My name is Margaret Little and I'm at Bell Farm Gardens as well. And I just want to thank the council and the city planners for mending the concept drawing. Actually the building you're getting a little bit further away from is mine. I live there. And so it definitely will make a difference.
 I am a little bit confused after seeing this, and I appreciate having another two weeks to look at it, but at the meeting two weeks ago, we said the sidewalk was going to be on the south side of the road, and now in this concept it's on the north side. But that was just a confusion that I had, but I do appreciate the...
 tried to work with us on this and taking less of our land. The other thing is then, when this goes through, we'll put our fence on the north side of this road. So that corner over there that we cannot access any longer will have to be, I mean, I guess that's public domain that the city will then take care of because we'll have no access to it. But the one other thing I would ask is fix the intersection with Joyce and Stearns before you do this connection.
 If you put any more traffic on there, it's just horrible the way it is. You can't get out. I couldn't even turn right out of there today when I came at quarter to five.
 without going back down and getting in line to come up. There's no way, occasionally I can turn left into Stearns from Joyce, but that's only, there's no traffic. So that would be my, I would ask you to do that. I understand the cost is $480,000 wherever you build a road, but maybe we can use that $20,000 to build a walking trail right now and then fix the Stearns Street when you fix Joyce.
 That would be my suggestion. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening I'm Dennis strokes. We have at 42 47 North Meadowview in the Gardens area there and thank you as we said for what you do for the city and it's a city We all love and we want to keep it going I have a few things that I
 concerns of mine. If we change the nature of the traffic through this area, you know, there's children's used to playing on the street over there and you know, how they go get used to cars coming through here. We really don't know how many are expected at this point in time, but apparently enough to make it worth considering making this connection. So we look at that and of course Bellevue Gardens would take a little bit of a hit on the storage building and the maintenance shop that we have.
 As I look at the numbers as I see them, and I'm just really not real sure, but you know, we're estimating a half a million dollars now by the time inflation and everything hits, we're probably looking at a million dollar project overall. As the traffic goes through there, we got a couple areas that will be impacted by that. The intersection with Vantage Drive being one of them.
 The people would have to cross four lanes of traffic, two bicycle lanes and two vehicle lanes as they come out of the division they're on to Vantage. So there must be some plan in there for traffic control, be it a four-way stop sign which people would scream about, traffic light, a roundabout or an eggabout as they're using up north, I don't know. But those costs should be included in the plan too to see what the overall cost of extending sterns would be.
 Lastly, I think I would throw out the idea of alternate uses for the money also. That we twice a day at least have major traffic jams at Joyce and Crossover and at Joyce and College Avenue. You know, if we want to keep the traffic flowing on Joyce, that would help relieve or possibly eliminate the need for more connection across to what we're talking about right now. But the traffic jams there are terrible.
 You may be familiar with it, but I won't assume that you are. But as you go to Crossover Road, two lines of traffic condense into one, and it backs up for about four or five blocks. Once that happens, people get very frustrated, anxious, aggressive, and cutting in lines and doing all kinds of things. You get up there and make the turn going northbound on Crossover Road. And if they finally do get to the Crossover Road, there'll be three or four run the red light,
 And then speed away as they go up the street. Thank you. Your time's up. Thank you all. I might ask everyone to silence your phone. I heard a little something going on. So please silence your phone.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. That is about as far on the other side of town as I can get, and this isn't going to impact my traffic patterns at all. But $400,000-ish might impact me as a taxpayer, and so it's part I want to look at.
 Because I will talk your ear off all day long about how connectivity is a good thing and we should plan more of it. I wish that our master street plan had local level streets in the plan that are not there.
 We haven't, we do a pretty good job. We get better at planning connectivity. And I wish that we could clean up all the places where it's missing. But this is a great example that we haven't always been good planners for connectivity. And that sometimes we've made mistakes. And sometimes fixing mistakes is expensive. And I understand this is only going to get more expensive if we don't build it now. That's a compelling argument.
 But right now, I hope that you'll look at this segment and the impact it will have and ask yourself if it's $400,000 worth of impact. And if it's not, maybe there's something else we could do with that money that would have a bigger impact and help more people.
 Would love to have this connected someday. I think it makes sense on a map I think it makes sense to people in a neighborhood on foot on in cars But it may just not be worth the price and and we may have to live with that Mistake that we made in the past and hopefully we'll learn from that do better planning now So that we're not paying for today's mistakes in the future. Thanks. Thank you We also like to addresses I
 Okay, what do you have on Zoom? On Zoom, I have Karen Woodward. Okay, go ahead. Hi, I want to make sure first you guys can hear me? Yes.
 I'm Karen Woodward. I live at 4026 North Zion Valley Drive in Bellefonte Gardens. I've emailed most of you and spoken with a lot of you during the city council meetings. I just kind of want to reiterate some of my points that I've made in the past, and I also have someone here to yield time to me if I go over.
 I've said this over and over. I feel like this is a physically irresponsible decision to vote in favor of this. Last meeting, it was brought up that $22,000 for the trees, this money that was allotted during the development, would help pay for those trees. And if you look at the numbers, that is true. However, I do want you to know that...
 All of this $22,000, it's actually $21,000, does not have to be returned. One of those, at least one of the contracts said that, you know, you could also use it for connectivity via sidewalks or extension of the bike path. So I want you to take that into consideration because I believe the statement was,
 at least the money that was collected during development would pay for the trees. Unfortunately, the trees that would be put in are nowhere near the full-grown mature trees that are actually shading the area right now.
 Setting aside, because I know at the last meeting we talked, you guys talked about Stern Street and Joyce, and there was a grant for future development there to improve that area. Thank goodness that is the case. I want to back up and focus more on the old Missouri and especially the Vantage and Stern Street. So if you guys vote for the additional $460,000 in funds for this, I'm going to ask you to
 That does not touch the situation that will be created then at both ends, at Vantage and Old Missouri. So while you're making your decision on this, I really want you to think beyond the $460,000 of additional funds. And I believe a gentleman earlier said it would probably be more than double than that. And I do feel like that that will be the case because you're then going to have to, you
 correct the approval of this is going to have to be corrected on those other two intersections that, of course, I'm going to say my word that I've said over and over, will be a death trap because I personally use those intersections each day with my animals. I've seen elderly people coming from that area and exercising. And, you know, that's
 That's their exercise and that's their safe path to exercise and then we're creating a very dangerous intersection for them Another point I'd like to make is that we are talking specifically in about an area in a very affordable housing Area and it seems that we haven't addressed the fact that and I know my time's up I have another person here to yell time time. Yes times. Oh Hi
 Hi, everyone. My name is Peyton Woodward. I also live at 4026 North Zion Valley. No, no, no. And I'm yielding my time. Time's up. That was... Everybody gets three minutes, so we have somebody else. That was a separate person. Okay. Okay, please reintroduce yourself. Yes. Hi, good evening, everyone. My name is Peyton Woodward. Okay. I live at 4026 North Zion Valley Drive, and I'm going to yield my time to Karen Woodward.
 no i'm sorry it doesn't work that way um so karen's already spoken and thank you who else do you have susan i don't have anyone else okay i'm going to bring it back to the council yeah thanks sarah might have been first okay sarah you go ahead um so i know we've had quite a journey on stern so bear with me
 Sitting on Transportation Committee, Stearns came before the Transportation Committee for four of the council members. We had multiple meeting conversations about the cost and the feedback from the neighborhood, which I really appreciate staff and the neighbors' time on that.
 As has been spoken to by other speakers and we discussed about it being that this area is a part of the master street plan and the connectivity is important. The cost did continually come up. And I've been on board with moving forward with this project because I do think that ultimately we do need this connection.
 What further brought me along to where I'm going to end up is that it's so great when we get together and had a facilitated workshop on Friday together. One of my colleagues during that time towards the end caused a ding moment when Council Member Turk said, well, this project with Stearns cost this much money and if you took that money, what could you do?
 And part of the conversations that we've been having over the last year in transportation are around in the street fund, we have a certain allocation that goes towards transit cost. And as we have this conversation about affordable housing, you know, the all-in cost of transportation and housing is incredibly important for households. And we know that wages are not keeping up to increase wealth and help folks with affordability.
 But we do have this avenue of potentially taking away some of this cost on transportation. So my light bulb went off whenever I heard Councilmember Turk say, well, what could we do? Now, I don't know if it's possible with this $400,000 being in CIP. And so I'll have to ask either our council or our finance to help me to understand.
 But whenever we've had the discussions about the allocations in the street fund on the transit, you know, it's kind of been at a certain allocation and we kind of do the best that we can. And we work really hard with that money. We were able, we had some discussion in the fall about extending the transportation line. I think it's line 20, the fixed line.
 down into South fable all the way past 15th Street down towards Clydesdale And we were actually I appreciate staff worked really hard and was able to get that expanded And you maybe don't know what the ridership numbers are but I've been watching it and been quite astounded in the first week on the Saturday it's been dented route and it got 62 riders and
 On the second route it got 65 and on the third Saturday it got 95. And so there's been incredible ridership and I asked ORT what they had expected in the beginning on that route with expansion and they thought about a third of that.
 So it's had tremendous response, but obviously it's still early days, but the pathway seems to be trending up. And so really I bring to my colleagues to really think about that whole what could we do with this money and should we pause and kind of take a break for a minute just to say do we, as we had talked about as well at workshop, that we're going to have to
 Unfortunately, our sales tax is slowing down and some of our discretionary monies might be drying up a little bit in 2024, but I know our needs in our community are going to continue to grow, especially around transportation. I would like to be able to have a broader conversation. So for that reason tonight, I really would ask at the very least that we pause and don't move forward with this item. But I know again, there are a lot of compelling reasons why to move forward as well. And so I'm open to continuing to talk about that.
 Okay, so if I understand what you're asking, can you move the funds from the street to transit? Does that sum up what you're asking? I don't have a clue. Stephen? Generally speaking, these CIP funds would stay in CIP and utilize those on either unfunded or underfunded CIP projects. Thank you, Stephen. Okay, does that answer your question? Okay, Scott.
 My question is for Jonathan. Jonathan, as you're looking at this map to the north of Stearns where I guess it's north Foxborough Drive stubs out and then also where Fraser stubs out, there's a swath of undeveloped land. Is that developable property?
 It is in the sense that it's currently undeveloped and it's zoned for not just agricultural uses, it's zoned for relatively higher density multifamily or other residential buildings. And it spans about 20 acres from those streets you described all the way up to Zion and they have the same ownership as well. Okay. So if we were to reject this.
 connectivity here does that adversely affect the potential of being able to develop that without doing a secondary exit road or
 i think what you're probably referencing is are the fire code standards uh when we develop subdivisions there are standards for how far entrances can be to a subdivision they have to have a certain amount of separation in case a tree goes down or there's a wreck and there's an alternative route for emergency services to arrive i don't know that this property has been evaluated for that specifically it's an unusual shape if it was a rectangle it would be easier to evaluate that but typically providing two opposite ended
 points of access allows a property to still be developed. So from what I'm seeing here, having an access point to the south, to the east, and to the north would generally accommodate that. But again, without a more detailed evaluation, I couldn't say for sure. Okay.
 Yeah, a couple of things. To the item being paused, I mean, we've paused this three times, I think, already. We've tabled this. And I think it was a good thing because we did get a lot of input. And I thank the neighbors for being so active in this. And we got the street narrow. We got the sidewalk on one to the point of where the sidewalk was going to be.
 I think the idea was to put it on the north to give more buffer between the houses and the road. And I really want to think, to me this is a strong connection that needs to be made, but I think it will in the short term relieve traffic off of Missouri and the long term traffic is growing everywhere we're a growing city.
 But I want you, you know, the neighbors that were here tonight, some great things were brought up. The Old Missouri, yes, be loud on that. Be a squeaky wheel on that. Let's get sidewalks and paths or whatever we need. Let's get Old Missouri improved. I wholeheartedly against that. Talk to your council members. Talk to me. I'll talk to your council members.
 And that's a great idea, and I would wholeheartedly support that. My support for this project almost got me denied some soup on soup Sunday, but graciousness prevailed and I was served. But I do support this. I understand the concerns. I think once it's done, I don't think it
 will be as bad as, you know, I think a lot of times we have a lot of fear about things, and then when things happen, it's like, oh, it's not as bad as I thought. And I hope this is that case. And if it's not, come back to me and say, Bob, come down here and see how horrible this is, and I will do it, and you can chastise me for that. But I support that, and I support that we move forward on this this evening. And thank you. Teresa.
 thank you mayor uh i really want to say thank you to the neighbors and to staff for trying to work these things out uh i think that's what fayetteville is all about we try and take our time and try to come to a compromise however i i'm very concerned about spending the 482 thousand dollars the only reason why we're here tonight is because of that 21 000 that's that's been collected from some of the businesses around there otherwise this wouldn't be before us
 We're not seeing that traffic volume yet. We may see it in the future, but we also just have pointed out there's a lot of undeveloped land. We don't know how that's going to be developed, how that's going to flow. So I'm personally, I'm not gonna support this tonight. I think that money can be spent.
 better spent elsewhere on needs that we have right now. And again, it's only because that money was gonna expire. That's the only reason why we're here. We're not seeing that volume yet, and we may never. We don't really know how that's going to work out. So I ask you all to consider that, moving that money to another more appropriate location where we have some real issues today, thank you.
 Scott. Mayor, I think I see a white shirt with a badge back there, so I'd like to ask Chief Hardin to come up and maybe address my initial question, maybe, because that is that's a significant piece of property there, so I want to make sure we're... Well the, as it stands today, there is no additional requirements. I mean it meets the fire code.
 If you build an additional, just a few more houses, it would be limited out to where you couldn't have any more. I think maybe three, possibly, you could add off of Foxboro there. Once you go beyond that, there would have to be a secondary interest because we require 30, and that's what the fire code requires, anything over 30. I think it says one and two family dwellings.
 We require a bit for what he just described an alternate means of access. So your access at this point is considered you've got two access points? No, we've got one access to that area. It stops there at going from memory I think Cambrai I think is the street. So if you start counting from there as you move forward you're gonna I think there's 27 houses in that area.
 Okay, thank you.
 I've thought really long and hard about this, and when I think about this, I'm also thinking about one of the things I've considered, and Jonathan can probably refresh my memory on that, is how many, the last time we covered this, we talked about the number of acres nearby that were undeveloped at this point, and I believe it was 37 within a very short distance to this possible connection here.
 I may be wrong on that number, but it was not a small amount. Anyway, one of the things I think about is there are still properties that are not developed and those will develop at some point in time. And we don't always think about, well, we only build the connection after we have the houses. Sometimes we have an opportunity like this to build a small connection.
 and that could alleviate traffic from this greater area now and in the future. And we also, have they decided on that school yet? Well, I was going to ask that with Jonathan. I don't know if there's any plans for that school going in that particular area. I don't know about that yet. So there's a whole lot of land in this area that still, you know, that we have to consider at some point in time will be developed.
 And it's probably not going to be developed one house per every acre or two acres or it's probably going to be a higher density and at that point this connection will be much more expensive than $482,000. I know it's not cheap. I know there's possibilities that we could take this money and put it somewhere else.
 But right now, I think this is a good sound connection. When we think of what might, you know, we're gonna be reworking some stuff on Joyce and making that safer too, because we've got a grant for that. We just don't have all of this stuff clear cut in a linear fashion.
 And that's the problem, I think, is it's not like we can't say, well, here's going to be this payoff here. And it's very distinct and defined. But I have thought long and hard about this. And I am in support of this connection. I know it's not cheap, but there's no real reason to build a sidewalk here.
 If there's not a better connection for other cars and stuff, because it would just be a connection between one neighborhood and another. And I don't really see that that's a good connection to service a greater population there. And let me think if there's anything else. Vantage and Joyce, I talked about when Joyce gets reworked and there will be some improvements over there.
 We don't, you know, we think about how things flow out. Yes, we do. Where they come out at different places.
 But if we only said well we won't build this connection over here because the the street where it runs into Joyce is an imperfect Connection it's unsafe Well, that's we wouldn't always we would never build anything if we looked at it quite like that and sometimes we look at things as Building pieces and we put in a block now and then we put in a block a few years down the road and at some point in time
 There's no plans for it yet, but that connection may go on over to a crossover. And this would be a better connection built now than in the future, I think. And that's the time and thought that I put into this. And that's just what I have to say. Thank you. No, no, no. We don't have anything, Bob. I saw your line. I don't care. Go ahead. Okay. I think those are great points, Sarah.
 You know the cost to me is like that's how much it costs to build a road anywhere There's nothing special about this project. That's making it cost more per foot and I think actually In my talks with Chris that it might come in a little cheaper Because we are narrowing it and we are just putting the sidewalk on one side The the fire connectivity or the fire access is an emergency vehicle access I think is a huge thing I mean basically
 what I believe I just heard, and correct me if I'm wrong, Chief, is that if this neighborhood, if there's much more development in this neighborhood, we're gonna have to go and make that connection
 Anyways, like within just a couple of developments or something, we're going to have to go, oh, now we need it. And it will be more expensive at that point. Is that correct? Did I hear that right? Yes, that would be correct. If you could build up to three more dwelling units in that area. Just three more dwellings? Right now. Like you couldn't put in an apartment complex? If you were going to put in more than that, you could add up to 22 more dwellings
 if you connect that, you could increase it by that much on Foxboro.
 Okay, because that changes, I mean, to me that's even a stronger argument for us to do this now because otherwise we're saying three more houses get built in that neighborhood or three more dwellings, a triplex, and we're done. Right. And I'm speaking purely from a fire protection standpoint. Well that's an important standpoint to speak from. So thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. There's no moral imperative. There's not a right or wrong answer. I favor connectivity. We're going to add, whether anyone in the room rejoices or not, 54,000 additional residents between now and 2045. Every street is going to cost money to develop. And if every neighborhood was able to come to the city and say, well, don't build in my neighborhood, wait until...
 Everything else is built out. We would really be stranded because we need to be making incremental connectivity progress Every single year in this city We're going to add that many residents and it behooves us to begin to make those connections The argument that I make for it is that you get one serious traffic accident on one of the other east-west streets and for that day people need an alternate route and
 When those streets every five years need to be resurfaced or every 25 years be rebuilt, you're going to need an alternate route. And so this is simply a part of quality of life and enabling people to more efficiently move throughout the city when one of their normal avenues is briefly taken away. So God bless the street department for taking care of our streets. We curse you when you're doing it. We love you when you're done. So thank you.
 What else? Any other comments? Well, I'm going to make just a couple. And I'm big on connectivity. I always have been since I was on city council.
 You know, I'm hearing about all kinds of developments possibly going to be going on in that particular area. We don't know if that's going to be happen or not, but there's going to be some decisions made here pretty soon in that particular area. And when I look at connectivity, like with our sidewalks, you know, right now we're trying to make connections between the sidewalks because we got a sidewalk.
 then we got no sidewalk then we got another sidewalk and now we're trying to make connectivity with sidewalk so to me when when we look at that and i will tell you this this road is not going to get any cheaper if we wait five years down the road it won't be any cheaper it's going to get more expensive that i think when i hear
 The fire chief say that if you put more than a couple three houses on here This thing is going to have to it's going to have to have the connectivity all the time I hear people telling me hey mayor when we're going to get east-west connectivity What are we going to get east-west connectivity? And this is one of the steps that we take in getting that connectivity So I will tell you if there's four council members that are interested in making the connectivity I will support this
 Connection so with that we need a motion in a second. I move we approve the resolution Second we got a motion second to pass the resolution Any final comments Care which please call the roll turn no Hertzberg. Yes Stafford yes Jones. No more. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Verna, yes
 Yes. Yeah, it's 5-3. Is that 5-3 or 6-2? What is that? All right. Thank you all. I think it was 6-2, Mayor. Okay. All right. Let's move on to number two. A resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the proposed Spout Spring Historic District petition agreeing that the city-owned property of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center shall be included within the Spout Spring Historic District. DeAndrea.
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. We are here again tonight after tabling that from the last meeting. And we have updates tonight. And I believe both Emma Willis, who is the project lead, and Britton Bostic from the city, they're both here. And they can provide those updates. So, Mayor Jordan, whenever I can, I would ask Emma to come up. Okay, well. Thank you.
 you can okay so Emma will be the applicant and then we'll hear from staff yes okay all right Emma ten minutes
 I don't need 10 minutes tonight, you all. I believe last week you guys had some additional clarification come in in regard to the request or the resolution. I'm pretty confident that there's a grasp as to how many signatures are required from the city. I do know we're down to only one signature required. I do want to note, though...
 Attorney Williams is that we still need clarification on the overall number that we'll be looking at for this to reach majority. Attorney Williams Well, the overall number will be the number of property owners actually in that are that own property in the district. Attorney Williams Thank you. And then additional clarification is the language on the petition needs to be amended, correct or incorrect?
 The petition hasn't actually been supplied to me, but I'll be happy to look at it and give you an answer tomorrow since I have a chance to examine it. I'll resend it, sir. Thank you. Beyond that, Mayor Jordan, I really want to set forth the resolution back in front of the City Council for official vote. I think that's where we are unless Britton has any clarifying comments.
 I'll bring her up when you're done. All right. Well, I am done. Thank you all. Okay. Do we have any questions? I would like to ask the council members if they have any questions right now to please address Emma because, again, this project is there are a lot of details. And so since she's the project lead and she's been working so diligently.
 I feel as though that although we've had her contact information since September and she's always been so graciously as it relates to Responding I think that tonight is the perfect opportunity if you have any questions To ask please I know that this was tabled so maybe there were some questions that you have had that you thought about over the past two weeks, but I
 If so, then I would encourage you to ask. Okay. Well, we'll ask again. Does the council have any questions? I have a question of clarification.
 So, so what exactly, I mean there's been a lot of back and forth on this. Clarify exactly if we vote in favor of this, what we're asking the mayor to sign the proposed and I'm asking Kit to clarify what we're going to be voting on if we vote on this and also between Emma if she has anything to add to it. So we're, if we vote on this, we're voting to authorize the mayor to sign the proposed outline of the district.
 Well, you're voting on whether or not the City Council and the Mayor want the Yvonne Richardson Center to be subject to the rules and regulations of the district if it is formed. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Please.
 Thank you, Mayor. So, Kit, as I read the resolution right now, it just pertains to the Yvonne Richardson Center. It doesn't pertain to the other city properties within that proposed historic district. If you remember what Britton told you from the state, they don't count the number of properties a property owner owns. A property owner gets one vote if they own 1,000 properties, one vote if they own one property.
 i realize that i'm guessing i'm asking is the resolution that we have before us complete does it does it contain all the properties that the city owns uh within that within that district or would it or does it need to be amended i guess it doesn't need to be amended if you own one property you're a property owner in that district so you you could go back and try to list all the easements and stuff we don't need to do that we own one property we know about the yvonne richardson center that's clearly within that district
 That means that we are a property owner, and therefore, if you want the mayor to have the authority to sign so that our property in the district will be subject to the rules and regulations of the Historic District Commission, if it is approved, then you would vote yes. Okay, thank you. Just wanted to make sure we covered everything. I have some questions, and Mayor Jordan, maybe you can answer.
 I should know this because I remember serving on the board of directors for the Yvonne Richardson Center maybe back in 2013 or so. And before it became, I think before the city took ownership, Mayor Jordan, what was the goal or the mission of the Yvonne Richardson Center? Was it the Southeast Fayetteville Community Center? Who would know that?
 i know that i was there i was there at the dedication and the niblock firm owned the property and they gave it to the city they had to give it to the city because the city then built the shell of the building
 Most of the building but they didn't they didn't like put stuff in it That was done usually by the nonprofit there for a while to make it a basketball court and to have computers in there But originally it had to go to the city So the city could spend money in order to build the building and I think it's been in the city ownership ever since so the purpose of that so it sounds like the purpose of that was to I
 because that area at the time was, I guess, socioeconomically disadvantaged. And so was that the part of the reason why it's there
 I think certainly that's what motivated the Niblock firm to give that. We did need a community place there, and that was to help the local community as much as possible. It wasn't limited, so if you didn't live in that community, you couldn't come, but it was really designed to try to help the people in that community, especially the children, because they had an educational component on it. So you're right, it was for the local community, the southeast Fayetteville community, and
 And then Coach Richardson was gracious enough to have it memorialize his daughter. And that's why it's called Yvonne Richardson Center. Thank you, Kit. So it sounds like the Yvonne Richardson Community Center is –
 in the spirit of this whole project. I mean, when I think about the history of YRCC, based on what you explained, even though it wasn't just limited to individuals that lived in Southeast Fayetteville, for the most part, that was the purpose of it, because when we look at West Fayetteville, I believe that there's the Boys and Girls Club. So I think it would make sense for YRCC
 because of the reason that it was founded and because how it serves the southeast part of Fayetteville, then this project is certainly conducive to the YRCC. Thank you, thank you. Okay, Sarah. I have a question for Kit here on this. And since, you know, and this is just nuts and bolts to me, if we are
 If we vote in favor of this, I'm just wondering, since we don't really have the definitions clearly defined yet, is there a possibility that we could get in a situation where we can't remodel the Richardson Center because of something that's established later on down the line? I don't think that's going to happen. Or we couldn't add on to it or something like that because we are doing a fairly sizable
 We've done a fairly sizable, we're about to, I forgot if we've started it yet, down there with, it's approved. We're about to expand it. And so I wouldn't want us to get into a situation where we couldn't, if we need to buy, if we want to add on to this center and make this center better for everything, then we can't buy a little piece of property behind it or something like that. I don't know how that would work.
 because we don't really know yet well i can certainly tell you that remodeling on the inside is not going to be affected for the center or any house that's there interior changes are totally outside the control of the historic district commission they control or they approve changes that are being requested by owners on the exterior part of that of their building so
 Or if you want a new building, they would have to approve that also. Well, I was thinking it's extending, so it would have to be approved. But there's not going to be a way that it would come up in conflict with this, probably, because they're not going to want that, I don't think. I think you don't know. Attorney Williams, may I interject, please? What? May I interject?
 Well, I guess. I just wanted to get us back to the process because we are still in the process of having to collect signatures before we can even think about ordinances or the historic district even enacting anything in the area. So we are still in the process of just collecting signatures. Okay. But if it became a district, if it was successful and became a district, then obviously the
 to approve or disapprove of new buildings or changes to the exterior buildings, that sort of thing. That's why it's a historic district, they're wanting to preserve the historic character. That was just, that was all I wanted to know right there.
 I just want to point out, it seems like I know there's worries about what does this mean, what does it mean for property owners, what does it mean for the city and the environment. This is a process and we're at the beginning of the process and I don't want us to put the cart before the horse and say... Because we're going to have plenty of times to say no or to say, we're not going to do
 That along the way that we're just in the signature gathering process. We're deciding whether or not we give the mayor Our blessing I giving him permission to move forward and sign For this property to be part of the historic district or not That is like really all we're doing and there will be a process of it you know if they get the signatures, then there'll be a process of a
 okay what are the the roles going to be what what kind of uh is it just going to be the forward facing part of a property that's affected or are we going to look at all four sides of a property can an existing building that was built after a certain date are they have to abide by the same rules as the historic uh structures in the district there's just so many moving parts we're at the very beginning part
 But we can't get through this part. If we say no to this, then, you know, I don't want us to mess up the works because we can't give the mayor authorization to do this very first part, to get this project started and to keep it moving forward. And this is a very important project. I think that concerns about, again,
 What color house, what color can you paint your house and what kind of lamps can you have? That's down the road and there's gonna be input on that and there's gonna be discussion about that and they don't just get to do what they want. You're correct, Kit?
 There is statutory authority that grants them tremendous power over a change. A property owner is supposed to have a certificate of approval that must be submitted to them for changes to the outward appearance of the building. But it could just be like street facing if they decide that? That's right. I think if it's in the backyard and nobody can see, I don't think that would come within their purview. Yeah, exactly.
 But you wouldn't have to take an existing building and make it look like an old building, right? We're not doing anything like that, right? We're not at that point. Like you say, right now, we're just at a point to say, well, will you authorize the mayor to sign for the Yvonne Richardson Center to be subject to the rules and regulations, assuming that a district is formed? Okay. I have trust in the process.
 Let's go back to Sarah. Sarah, were you? Go ahead. I think that question has been asked multiple times and answered multiple times. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Scott. I was just going to say, we seem to be getting down in the weeds where we don't belong right now. That process is going to be forthcoming. I think it comes back to, I do think it's a little odd to ask for
 signature before we know what the rules are but I understand now that that's kind of the the way it goes which seems weird to me but that's the way it goes that's the way the process goes I do think there's no reason for us not to go ahead and sign this but I think we need to acknowledge also that what it appears the district is today when this finished product comes
 could be substantially different looking. This is not gonna be a fast process. This is gonna be a slow process, a very time consuming process. So it's a monumental task that they're looking at, but I see no reason we can't move forward with signing the resolution. Okay, I wanna bring Brenton up. I know she's been on point on this too.
 So give us ten minutes here. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I'm Britton Bostic with Long Range Planning, which, as you now know, also includes historic preservation. I was really glad to have our colleagues at the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program assist with the information about the petition signing. I'm happy to cover any information for you all that I covered at agenda session. I do appreciate working with Mr. Williams on this. He is correct in what he said according to what the state has told me.
 And some of you are also very correct in estimating that there's quite a bit of process. So this would go through our Historic District Commission, the creation of Historic Districts Do, and that's a local historic district with the kind of regulations that y'all have been talking about. Once it goes to the Historic District Commission and they prepare a report, it goes to the Planning Commission and also to the State Historic Preservation Office for review and comment, goes back to the Historic District for a public hearing,
 and then they forward it on to you all for your consideration. So you would have the opportunity to see the full proposal at that point. And then once that's presented to you all, you have the opportunity to even amend it and send it back with comments to the Historic District Commission for reconsideration. So there are a lot of opportunities and kind of stops along the way as we consider that. I do...
 I have a lot of confidence in the historic commissioners that you all have appointed, both to the Historic District Commission and the Black Heritage Preservation Commission, and both of your historic commissions are doing a lot of work right now in preparation for this district and what's being both proposed and what needs to be looked at and considered so that they can provide reporting back to you all on their findings. I appreciate being included in this process. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Do we have any questions? Yeah, Andrej.
 it Britain thank you so much I was just going to say that I want to make them make a motion that we go ahead and oh you've got any public comment sorry I'll do it after you get public comment mayor I did have one question for Britain I'm sorry Britain I didn't catch you before you went all the way back
 Thank you. So can you, are we in the right stage of the process? Have we, is this the right stage, I guess, for the Spout Spring proposed historic district to be coming before city council requesting the mayor sign for the property that the city of Fayetteville owns within that proposed district? I think that's a really good question. There are two ways.
 to consider a local historic district, but only one of those paths is an opportunity for us. If you have a federally recognized National Register historic district, no petition is required. A city council can actually go ahead and kind of, you know, get that process started. You know, we can go straight to HDC with no petition.
 We don't have the exact boundaries of a National Register historic district here to work with, and so the alternative option in the state code is a petition. And for the city council, let's say, to signal their willingness to continue this process by being party to that petition, I think this is that time because we do have to have a sufficient number of petition signatures acquired.
 before the historic district commission can really start their process of creating a report that gets sent out, et cetera. And so I think this is the time in the process for the council to be looking at that and considering that. I think this is also the time in the process for any property owners in the district to be looking at whether or not they're interested in signing on to that petition because it will take that 50,
 plus percent in order to even be able to formally begin the process with our historic district commission. I hope that helps. That helps greatly. I have one last question. Do you, it was really nice, thank you so much for acting very quickly and talking to AHPP. Do you have any outstanding questions for them or did that letter kind of clarify and have no ambiguity left? Are we comfortable with that now?
 I am very comfortable with the guidance that they provided. What I'm not able to report to the council at this time is what we would be looking for in terms of signature count. That's an evaluation that I would need a lot more time in order to be able to answer the question on. But I appreciate AHPP being so clear in their description of a boundary.
 Are you in the boundary? Are you outside of the boundary? The kind of interesting thing about Fort Smith is that they have protected brick streets. We don't have brick streets that we might be seeking to treat specially, but other cities do. And so the right-of-way is included. So I feel like those were some kind of final details. And then, of course, because we maintain a very good relationship with the State Preservation Office,
 we have the opportunity to continue to converse with them. And that's what I would expect the Long Range Planning Division to do as we move forward, is to be in constant consultation with the state office to make sure that we're taking the right path for this. And then also, nobody likes to be surprised. So they would probably not want to receive a report from us without expecting that they'll be receiving that report. So we'll continue to stay in communication. And should we need to ask for additional clarity or guidance, we're absolutely happy to make that communication.
 wonderful thank you so much for that answer appreciate it and all your work that you've done on this thank you brett okay if there's nothing else from the council we will proceed to get some public input everybody has one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us that's in the chamber tonight on this topic who do you have on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised all right then i will bring it back to the council mary oh sarah did she i was going to make a okay i just wanted to say thank you to first i want to say thank you to sharon miss sharon kill
 because she brought this forth back this past summer, summer, last summer actually. And then Emma came forth in, I believe in September and of course, Britton and Jonathan working very diligently. As I mentioned last week, since I've been here, I rarely see Fayetteville African American natives attend the council meetings. And I attended the community meeting
 with Emma probably back in, Emma that was, I'm sorry.
 October, okay. And the support was overwhelming. And it has continued to be overwhelming. And I know that the Black Preservation Commission here, they've been very supportive. And the community as a whole has been really supportive and have been asking what can they do to move this process forward?
 I know that there are questions with any process, but I think that both Emma and Britton have both been very, very gracious and very knowledgeable throughout this entire process. And I don't think that at this stage we can ask anything else from them because they've answered everything that needs to be answered.
 And I believe that, again, this is just a small part in this big puzzle. And I think that by no means are we going to be committing ourselves to any type of legal challenges by asking the mayor to sign for this property. So with all that being said, Mayor Jordan, I would like...
 to make the motion that we pass this resolution. Second. Holly, did you have something? Yeah, I had a request for a friendly amendment to the title and section one.
 Just for clarity's sake, I would like to change the title to a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the proposed Spout Spring Historic District petition agreeing that the city-owned property shall be included within the Spout Spring Historic District boundaries. So taking out the specification for the Yvonne Richardson Center and identifying all of the properties within the proposed boundaries.
 And then that would also change Section 1 to say the city property within the proposed boundaries, just so that it's more clear. So you would make, the amendment would add all the properties and scratch out the Yvonne Richardson Center. I mean, but it would be included. Yes, sir. That's fine. I don't think that'll change the nature of... It should. Okay. Okay, that's fine. That's fine.
 So it would include all the property. So, alright everybody got that amendment? So we need to make sure that we say all that over again. I see a note that says, Colleen. You want me to say it again? Okay. I move that we amend the ordinance to read, or the title of the ordinance to read a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the proposed South Spring Historic District petition agreeing that the city owned property within the proposed boundary be included.
 to amend section 1 to include city property within the proposed boundaries and removing the specification for Yvonne Richardson Center which would include yeah which would include Yvonne Richardson yes I have a clarifying question in the resolution and sorry Colleen I know you've read it twice now so just
 It does speak specifically and names the spout spring historic district. Were you leaving that in your language? Yeah, I would leave that. I just wanted to take out the agreeing that the Yvonne Richardson Community Center shall be included and make that include all of the city property. Could I make a friendly, friendly amendment just to say the city properties
 to include the Yvonne Richardson Center, because I think it's powerful that it's mentioned there and honoring that center and what it means as kind of an anchor in that area. And so for me, I think personally, I mean,
 means something it's kind of that beacon in that area and so I would be my my only okay let me get this straight so now Sarah you want an amendment on the amendment that includes not only the property but also mentions the lawn really included yeah I'll second the amendment to the amendment okay oh I
 I mean I'm fine with that I think it's confusing to me I would prefer to just say all city property included I was trying to remove the specification so we would remove any ambiguity but if that's what we'll pass that's fine
 The resolution is authorized by Mayor Jordan to sign the proposed Established Marine Historic District petition, agreeing that the city-owned property within the Established Marine Historic District, including the Bonner History Center, shall be included in the Established Marine Historic District. OK. That works for me. OK. I'm ready to sign. I would join the Marine Corps.
 All right. All right. Now we have the amendment on the amendment. So we got to vote the last amendment first, right? Yes, unless there's an agreement that...
 and you're right I accept the friendly amendment okay we can vote once we're good that eliminates one amendment yes yes I make a motion that we vote on the amended amendment did I say that right correctly
 Good enough. All right. Well before we have any more discussion Know what is everybody good now? All right, here we go care what you please call the row turn. Yes, it's burn. Yes Stafford. Yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Now we have the amended resolution, correct? All right. All right. So is there any discussion on the amended resolution? Everybody good? All right. Any final comments? Mayor Jordan, I just want to thank the council members for their patience.
 all of the questions and the details because they certainly matter when you're doing a project of this magnitude we we have to be good stewards of the city's resources time and money and so i think that this
 that we've done that, we're doing this in this project, and I just want to set a precedent for not just Fayetteville but Northwest Arkansas and challenge any of the other cities to do this. Fayetteville has been on the front lines as it relates to being the first. It's going all the way back to integration, and I remember having conversations with Kit about how Fayetteville has been the first, and so if my,
 If I'm right, I think that we'll be the first city in the state to do something of this magnitude. So this is something that we should all take pride in. And when we know that when we elevate and lift one community, everyone in our community rises. And that's what this is about. This is about everyone rising.
 and our community rising and so i really appreciate the council doing this if it passes and britain again thank you so very much and jonathan thank you for stepping in and of course emma thank you and you have our unwavering support throughout the project and sharon thank you as well
 Sure. Well, I did just want to publicly acknowledge and thank all of the individuals and the staff that have really worked on this project. And I really want to echo a lot of what was shared by Council Member Jones. But to me, this is such an incredible encouragement in our community. I think oftentimes as we come out of the pandemic and we kind of grind through what this new normal is, I think that
 projects like this are hopeful in our communities and really are a great avenue. While you muck through what the process is and it's tedious sometimes, we always have growth and we're our best selves when we're doing something new that's challenging us
 And so I'm excited about the challenges it's gonna present, because I know it's gonna make us a better and more welcoming Fayetteville. So thank you for everyone who's going through the muck, who's taking on more work, who's carrying that burden and that mental and manual labor. I'm so incredibly appreciative. So I can't wait to vote yes tonight, thanks. Okay, everybody good?
 Well, thank you all. I do appreciate all the work that you all have done, DeAndre and staff, everybody else. This is an important step for us. So, Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. Thank you all.
 Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. I'll get it all signed up. Okay.
 Let everybody clear out a little bit. I'm ready to sign. Okay. Okay. Well.
 That was easy enough. All right. Okay. Okay. All right, gang, let's move on to new business. Okay. Move on to new business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 50.04...
 depositing on vacant lots of the federal code to include a prohibition on dumping mulch compost full dirt and brush on vacant lots in the city trees been ordained by the City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 50.04 depositing on vacant lots of the Fayetteville code and an axe or replacement section 50.04 as follows
 Quote 50.04 depositing on vacant lots. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, throw or otherwise deposit any mulch, compost, fill dirt, brush, garbage or trash or accumulations of the same on any vacant lot in the city.
 Okay. Thank you, Mayor. As I kind of explained a couple of weeks ago, this is in response to an ongoing issue that we're having and that staff has reached out to and tried to resolve. We had a gap in our regulations.
 I many of you expressed some concern about the having this too broad with using any vacant lot in the city. So I think Kit mentioned maybe using the term unreasonable and maybe a reasonable amount of mulch compost filled dirt brush garbage.
 trash so we may be able to make an amendment like that tonight I'm very much open to that I I believe that I rushed this a little bit but we definitely have a an issue here that we need to kind of close a gap on so I'm
 I'm happy to answer any questions you might have, but I'm definitely open to amending that. Okay. Teresa, I understand the intention of this, and I think it is important. We don't want to let people just abuse their rights. It does greatly concern me, it seems very broad,
 And you mentioned it was kind of rushed, so I'm usually against tabling things, but I might be open to tabling this to kind of draw it in.
 because I want to make sure we're not imposing on all the good actors and homeowners and making a broad law because we have one bad actor. And I'm always, you know, it could put us in, I've seen it put us, the city in legal jeopardy too. The pet store comes to mind where we pass the law based on one business. You know, we can't really single out one bad actor to make a law for everybody. And I am worried, you know, like,
 I get mulch delivered. A friend of mine actually texted me today because he was worried because he's like, I just got a thing of mulch delivered. Is this going to be a problem? But so I really want us to take some time with this. Another thing that came to my attention, one of our Gap Play citizens who's constantly involved, sent me some photographs that were very interesting because it looks like what's actually happening here is that this isn't,
 This isn't a resident using it for residential purposes. This looks like a business use on a residential property. They had a mulcher, a commercial mulcher. These things cost tens of thousands of dollars. This is not somebody just doing their yard work somewhere else and dumping their yard waste. This is a commercial business, and they may own the property as an individual, but this is a commercial business using this as a dumping grounds for commercial...
 purposes and so i would think that there we already have laws on the books that would disallow this use um and kid maybe i'm wrong and that struck me also that this is being used by a business to get rid of their waste or even a business that might want to sell or something else some of the other items like dirt that would be dumped on the ground on a vacant lot
 And either one is a misuse, I think, in a residential area. If it's not zoned for commercial and they're treating it like commercial, I don't know enough about this particular lot to really know that. I do think that this needs a tremendous amount of work and analysis. I think...
 50.04 I believe was only stopping anybody from throwing or depositing trash or garbage on a vacant lot. And obviously there's no reasonable amount of trash or garbage that you have to worry about. Anything is too much. But when it comes to mulch and dirt and compost, then I think we just need to, if anything, we need to separate that code section up
 and keep it very strict when it comes to garbage and trash and maybe even brush. But when it comes to these other materials that homeowners, including myself, have gone down to our compost pile and gotten a dump load, a whole trailer load of trash, not trash, of compost,
 sometimes it sits for a while before we get it all set up and there with different flower gardens so you need to be careful that we're not overreacting here and going too fast on this and I don't think we can do it tonight I would surely it's not really good this is the not the right place to start doing ordinance amendments I think either the
 We can work together and I'd like to work with planning also on this. They have a big input on here. And so we need to do it internally like that or else even have it go to ordinance review, which right now is concentrating on short-term rentals, which I know you love. I want to read that subject.
 But I don't think that tonight is where we need to try to amend and pass this. I would ask that you really table it and give us a chance to really work on this and make it much more directed. And is there a chance that this is already in a legal use in this one instance, that this is a commercial use of this property and that case can be made to work this specific instance out while we work towards the end?
 towards a broader and better law to pass? Certainly there's a chance for that. It requires investigation by usually the planters. I'm sorry, Jonathan does a lot of zoning issues. So it would require investigation to prove that kind of stuff is happening, even though we're both suspicious that that might be going on.
 That's one way, but there might be the council might want to address this in an ordinance anyway to make it easier so the proof is not going to be so difficult to be able to establish. I can't believe I'd say this, but I ran against tabling, but I'd make a motion to table. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Jonathan, I've been wanting you to weigh in here just a little
 Certainly. Thank you, Mayor. And to Councilmember Turk's credit, she's been extremely patient with us while we investigated this. We reviewed it from a code compliance standpoint, an engineering standpoint, a planning standpoint. And the biggest challenge with this particular case is
 we are not able to establish beyond a reasonable doubt that it's being used commercially to the point where we can take it to our prosecutor. We don't know if there's money exchanging hands, the property owner has said that he's just adding mulch to his property, he's trying to make it fallow. Then one of the items I included for you all with that exhibit, hopefully you had opportunity to consider it, is that we'd have some pictures documented from residents where we show a commercial tree service that's dumping on the property.
 But the way that we work with our city prosecutors is that staff investigates independently and has to validate these independently unless a resident is willing to sign an affidavit and be available to speak in court. So that has been a consistent challenge with this one. Staff at multiple different levels have visited this property. And so again, I think Council Member Turk has been very patient with giving us the opportunity to try to work this with existing ordinances before ultimately about a month ago, we determined that there was not
 a route in ordinance that we could rationally say that this was illegal despite it appearing to cause a nuisance for the neighbors.
 so if we though had a re an ordinance a code section that would maybe talk about the percentage of the ground covered or the number of piles or things like that to make it easier for planning to determine whether or not it's been abused that's probably the direction we need to go in and that's going to be fairly complicated and so that's why
 I think we're not ready tonight really to pass anything. And even that's not gonna be an easy ordinance to draft and to create in order to try to get it right. I can tell you that. Senator.
 I think one of the things that's really challenging about this is if you've driven by and looked at this property, you could not imagine that somebody would do this to a residential lot. There's nobody in their right mind would do that.
 And I'm not trying to be funny. I'm not trying to be funny. It's just something I could not have anticipated. And I thought I was going to go over there and see some big, you know, like a couple of big piles of mulch. But it's been spread out to very close to the property line.
 And it appears, you know, I didn't get out and measure it with a yardstick or a tape measure or anything like that. But it is feet above the property, suddenly it's feet above the property level of the property next to it. And there's a, you know, you can kind of look at the fence, which I think is a six foot high privacy fence on one side. And it's.
 It's up about halfway up that fence, which is, like I said, no one, I've never seen anything like that before on a vacant lot. And it could change the runoff of that. It's not creating dirt, and I can't just pile up dirt on my lot.
 My neighbors would complain about it and say, well, I want my lot to be higher than yours. You know, I can't do that at my lot. So it's very unusual that we even have this request. So I think I agree with Kit. This is kind of, I mean, how do you determine? It's high all the way across the lot or most of the lot.
 And I received comments from one resident that said, look, this is not, you know, I'm assuming that that level of compost is not just breaking down either. It probably clumps together and just kind of sits there. At that, you know, it would take years for three feet of
 or more of compost to decompose. But one of the residents sent me pictures and said, look, what happens is there's so much compost or so much mulch on there that it runs off and clogs all the storm drains,
 which is a problem for everyone in the area. It could flood the street, it could cause problems for emergency vehicles to get through if the street's flooded or something like that, cause runoff onto someone else's property. So those are things that I think we need to look at. But until you look at this, you cannot imagine that somebody would do something like that. So I think it's a good idea that we really craft it well.
 And just, it's not the normal just piling up. Like if you have a small brush pile in the backyard that you dispose of once a year, or you pile the mulch up that you get from the city and you wait three months to spread it out. It's not, that's not what we're talking about. Thank you. Okay, Scott.
 I would agree also about tabling it, but one of the things that you were talking, we have setbacks for construction zones. Maybe we can create some sort of setback that that allows, you know, you can't pile mulch or whatever to a certain point close to your neighbors and.
 I mean, I don't know how that would work, but that's maybe something that, considering what she's saying, is piled up right to the fence. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.
 So I look forward to working with Chris and Jonathan and everyone else that needs to have input on this and see how this travels. Teresa. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm happy to table this, absolutely. And also one thing that we might want to consider in your all's discussion is how high, what's the height of that from the curb, so that we can kind of address some of these runoff issues that we've heard about. So I'm very open to...
 the creative solution to this. I would just ask that maybe we get it done within the next couple of months, because this has been an ongoing issue for quite a while. And I appreciate staff really trying to engage with the property owner and resolve this before us being here tonight, so.
 So yes, I'm happy to table it. Could we, do we want to set a date when it would come back with that or is that too onerous for you all? I'd like to set a date. Okay. Kit, how much time, do you have an estimate how much time this might take us to get something well crafted and that we could all maybe take a look at and...
 It's a little bit difficult on that because I do have other litigation going on and other issues, so I can't necessarily drop everything and try to work on this, but I realize this is an important problem right now and there's a lot of things we need to look at, but I think that we can at least make some stabs at it. We wouldn't have it really ready for the next meeting because we do the, you know, the agenda kind of goes out this week and so we're not gonna have anything ready for that, but
 Jonathan, do you have any ideas about analyzing this issue and telling Chris what we need to do? I don't. Staff is working on several ordinance amendments right now, so I'm not sure how this would readily fit in. I think if Council Member Turk offered two months, I'm inclined to take every inch of
 But I understand that there is urgency. The neighbors are frustrated. I don't mean to make light of any of this. So it may bear perhaps putting it on the agenda for the April 2nd meeting. And then possibly if it needs discussion and left on a reading, then we can perhaps take, or you all can perhaps take action on the 20th, the 20th, excuse me, the 16th. So I'd be tabling for, I guess that's for three meetings.
 Yeah, tabling to April 2nd perhaps.
 So, again, stick with me here. I know that we've had a lot of fun in ordinance review just getting to talk about short-term rental lately. And I know that we're talented and probably juggle multiple balls in the air at one time. And so I also would like to see about the possible consideration that we do bring it to ordinance review because I do think there might be some really beneficial, especially from the public. We've gotten great feedback on short-term rental and think –
 especially our gardening community, those that are in the business industry that do tree removal and have entire truckloads every time they take down one of these big trees and they'll dump them, would love to hear kind of that thoughtful conversation that will do some of the work for us and some of that lifting. So I'd love to hear from other colleagues because anybody can attend ordinance review. It's a public meeting, it's a great workshopping. And I'm sure we'd all probably love to talk about something else besides short-term rental.
 I'd be fine to bring that to ordinance review, unfortunately not tomorrow. But Jonathan I did want to ask you a clarifying question with the work that you guys are doing on this. Do you foresee us having to wait to bring it to ordinance review until after you guys have had a chance to review it yourself or would it be okay if we saw that sometime like mid-March?
 I think that's ultimately at the committee's discretion. It depends how you're wanting to use that committee meeting. If it's an input session as much as anything else, I don't think there's any need to put it off longer than necessary. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Well, before we table, do you want to take some public comment?
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom we'll speak after that who would like to address it that's in the chain
 Good evening again, Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive, about seven houses down the street from the property that inspired this. And I'll tell you, first of all, I am that neighbor who has a ton of compost dropped off by the giant city truck on a Tuesday and then doesn't get it moved until Saturday. So this is not about that kind of thing, I hope, and hopefully.
 I appreciate you recognizing the difference because I don't want to get in trouble because it rained my compost down the street. I do try to prevent that. That is not being prevented here. Sorry if I missed a couple of you with the pictures. I know I tried to get them to most folks. When it rains, the mulch that we're talking about here just sort of floats up and away.
 and goes down the street out into Mount Comfort along the intersection there. The rest of the time when it's just kind of muddy, there's no effort to prevent track out from vehicles and the trucks that are hauling stuff in are also pulling mud out on the street.
 I think when you look at this, just some of the basics of our erosion control measures that we would have for any other grading plan, grading activity. I don't know if this doesn't count as grading because it's not dirt yet. I don't know.
 It's a strange thing and I appreciate your attention to it. I'll say it's been going on for four to six years, so don't be in a hurry. Get it right instead of getting it fast. Take your time. Maybe not past the end of the year. Kyle, how long do you say this has been going on? Oh, four to six years. Yeah, it's not a new thing. It's not a one-time thing. It's frequent. Several times a week there's a truck in there. Yeah.
 Thank you. Appreciate your attention to it. Thank you. Kyle, can I bring it? How much do you say per week? I mean, it's not like I'm going in and out of my neighborhood at all hours, so I'm not saying I catch it all, but I would say that
 Once or twice a week I drive by and there's some form of activity, a fresh pile, something happening. It's ongoing. Yeah, active, weekly. I mean, to me it's clearly a commercial use. Yeah, it's crazy. It's either commercial or somebody's got a weird hobby. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this?
 Who do you have on Zoom? No one on Zoom. Okay. I understand that y'all are thinking about table lists for two months. Is that correct? Until April, what is that? Second. Thank you, Mike. And if we go any faster than that, I'll let you know. And I'm brainstorming this, and I think maybe what we need to do is be able to do a permit system so that anyone that has –
 more than normal is going to have to fill out a permit to store this on their lot. And this lot would certainly be more than normal so we can, that way we won't stop people from
 Doing a normal truckload of stuff or something But we'll prevent multiple truckloads because we can talk about the amount of stuff that's on the lot and when you reach that level then you have to have a permit and then I think with a permit we can have all kinds of regulations to prevent Problems and also to not allow any more dumping. So I think the permit system is probably the way we need to go.
 So, Kent, I just want to clarify right now the way this reads, it's about vacant lots. So would you propose a permit on occupied lots, too? Or would you just focus it on vacant? Let's leave it with vacant at this point in time. I don't think most people are going to do this around their house. I don't either. I don't either. And then the other thing is I think we wanted to send this to ordinance review in March. So, yeah.
 So that would be nice to have that reviewed and then hopefully it'll be ready for us on April 2nd. Well do we have a motion to table it to the 2nd? Did you do that Don? A motion to table until the 2nd of April? Or did you have something else? Okay, we have a motion to table the ordinance until April 2nd. Okay. We're good? Alright.
 Karen, would you please call? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes.
 An ordinance to amend a joint lease agreement with the Federal School District for portions of Jefferson Elementary School, Holcomb Elementary School, and Lake Fayetteville. Allison? No. Kitt? Whereas on September 20th, 2016, the City and Federal School District entered into a joint lease agreement for portions of Jefferson Elementary School, Holcomb Elementary School, and Lake Fayetteville.
 And whereas on April 18, 2017, the City Council passed Ordinance 5968, approving Amendment 1 to the Joint Lease Agreement to reduce the Lake Fayetteville leased premises by approximately 1.7 acres. And whereas the parties now desire to change the leased premises and other terms of the agreement based on the changes in use and recreational priorities.
 Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign Amendment 2 to the Joint Lease Agreement with the Fayetteville School District, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance. Allison. Thank you Mayor. Good evening Council. This is a request to approve an amendment to an existing lease agreement between the City of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Public School District.
 The city and Fayetteville public schools have shared use of several properties over the years including many of which just enumerated for us. Gary Hampton softball complex, Holcomb Elementary, Lewis soccer fields, Lake Fayetteville portions of Walker Park parking area and the former Jefferson School and school gym. This amendment clarifies and cleans up several changes in use that have occurred over the past few years.
 Changes include defining the use of Lewis soccer fields, which are jointly owned, and formalizes the use of the parking area on the north side of Walker Park that the school district owns but functionally serves the park. It will also omit areas that are no longer shared use, including Lake Fayetteville and a portion of the former Jefferson School. The lease terms will remain the same and end in September of 26, at which time a new lease or an amendment will come to you guys for consideration.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber?
 No one. Well then I'm going to bring this back to the council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson would you please call the roll. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker.
 lunch yes an orange man a joint lease agreement with the fable school district proportions of jefferson elementary school holtcomb elementary school and lake fayetteville may we suspend the rules and go to the third reading we have a motion to second the third and final reading jackson would you please call the road kirk yes burksburg yes
 Stafford yes Jones yes for yes Whitaker yes, Erna. Yes Yes, in order to amend a joint lease agreement with the Fayetteville School District proportions of Jefferson Elementary School Holcomb Elementary School and Lake Fayetteville any final comments from the council Jackson, which please call the roll. I
 Burke? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okie dokie.
 An ordinance to amend 166.20, expiration of approved plans and permits of the Unified Development Code to extend the time for developers to request administrative project extensions from 12 months to 18 months. Kit. Whereas section 166.20, expiration of approved plans and permits of the Unified Development Code, currently authorizes staff to approve a one-year project extension administratively.
 provided that the project complies with all applicable zoning and development regulations adopted after the project's original approval and the request is submitted before the initial one-year project expiration, and further authorizes the Planning Commission to grant extensions of up to three years from the project approval date.
 And whereas the staff has received an increasing number of requests for one-year extensions from the Planning Commission in recent years as a result of applicants narrowly missing their one-year window to request an administrative extension. And whereas the purpose of this amendment is to allow a one-year project extension to be granted administratively by the Zoning and Development Administrator as long as the request is submitted within 18 months of the original approval.
 now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby repeal subsection b time limit in section 16620 x expiration of approved plans and permits of the unified development code and enacts a new subsection b as shown in exhibit a attached here too and made a part hereof
 right thank you mayor and good evening council um so my name is gretchen harrison i'm the senior planner in the city's development services department i'll be presenting this item this evening because mr kurtz very graciously offered me the opportunity to do so so this request is coming from you uh coming to you from the city's planning division in our planning commission it's essentially a request to amend section 166.20 of our unified development code which outlines our project extension and expiration requirements for various projects that we're tasked with reviewing
 So just as some background on that ordinance, it was adopted by council in 2002. When it was first enacted, there was a one-year approval period established for those projects, which basically said all projects will expire after one year from the date that the planning commission approves them if certain tasks aren't completed. There's tasks that are outlined in that section of code that have to be reviewed.
 completed within that approval period, they vary based on the project type. And then if some developers need some additional time to complete those required tasks, they were allowed to ask for a one year extension from planning commission to extend their approval period for up to two years from that original date of approval.
 That ordinance was amended in 2008. That amendment allowed staff to approve one-year extensions to projects if they got their request in before their expiration date. If they missed that deadline but were able to get it in within the next six months, we did allow them to go to the Planning Commission to ask for a one-year extension. We did also allow for a second-year extension, which would have to be approved by Planning Commission. All of those requirements and allowances are still in place today.
 As some more context, there are certain projects this ordinance applies to and projects that it does not apply to. So it applies to preliminary plots from subdivisions that we review. Typically with those they're required to get their grading permit within that approval period. For planned zoning districts, it's a different thing.
 They are required to follow their approved phasing plan for those developments. Conditional use permits, they are typically required to get a business license within that approval period. For large scale developments, they are usually required to get all grading and building permits within that approval period.
 provisions and expirations do not apply to some of the things that you review like rezoning, easement, right of way vacations and those are enacted as ordinances and then projects that we review administratively as staff like small site improvement plans and large site improvement plans, those do not have expiration dates based on our current code. So the proposal for you is essentially to amend our current ordinance.
 to allow staff to approve all first year extensions for projects. So it would basically change our approval from that 12 month period to 18 months which is what the planning commission is currently allowed to approve extensions under. So this is kind of sparked by some trends that we've noticed in recent years.
 Intended to illustrate just the number of applications we've received for extensions that have had to go to the Planning Commission over the last five years. As you can see, we have received a pretty high uptick in those since the COVID pandemic. Just to break it down a little bit further, in the last three years, we have seen an increasing number of one-year extensions being requested from applicants who are narrowly missing their window to request an administrative extension from staff. We are receiving some extensions.
 request for two-year extensions and then some other requests tied to more special projects as well. So just wanted to break down further that we are seeing the majority of those items be requests for one-year extensions from Planning Commission. So one thing I did want to mention, regardless of whether an extension is reviewed by staff or the Planning Commission, there are specific criteria that we're required to consider.
 WHETHER THE PROJECT IS SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLYING WITH OUR CURRENT CODES AND ORDINANCES SO THEY CAN'T MAKE ANY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES. IF THAT IS THE CASE, THEY DO HAVE TO GO BACK TO PLANNING COMMISSION FOR APPROVAL TO THOSE MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROJECT. AND THEN ALSO WE'RE REQUIRED TO HAVE THE APPLICANT DEMONSTRATE WHY THEY COULD NOT COMPLETE OUR REQUIRED TASK WITHIN THEIR APPROVAL PERIOD. SO THEY HAVE TO SHOW WHY THEY NEED AN EXTENSION. I DID ALSO WANT TO RESPOND TO COUNCIL MEMBER TURK'S QUESTION FROM AGENDA SESSION.
 JUST FIND THAT THE REQUEST FOR ONE YEAR EXTENSIONS WE REVIEWED LAST YEAR, WE DID RECEIVE 14 OF THOSE. 10 OF THEM WERE PLACED ON CONSENT BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION. THERE WERE FOUR THAT WERE LEFT OFF. TWO OF THOSE WERE TIED TO CONTENTIOUS PROJECTS THAT WE EXPECTED TO RECEIVE PUBLIC COMMENT ON. ANOTHER WAS TIED TO A MAJOR MODIFICATION. AND THEN ANOTHER WAS TIED TO A BIT OF A MORE SPECIAL PROJECT RELATED TO PROJECTS THAT WERE
 for a middle school. So they wanted to talk about that a bit further and leave it off of the consent agenda. But the majority of those requests that we received were on consent last year. So with all of that said, we are recommending approval of this ordinance amendment. Planning Commission did vote to forward this to you with the recommendation of approval nine to zero. And we have not received any public comment on this item, but I'm happy to answer any questions you might have for me about it, thank you.
 What questions do we have from the council? Everybody good? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us and send the chamber on this particular topic? No.
 Susan, do you have anybody? Well then I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. I would say that all the questions I could have had were answered by staff in their 15-minute presentation that was made in about five minutes. I can't listen any faster than that. And so it would be my honor to request we suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the point? Scott. Tirk. Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Whittaker yes Berna yes yes and Lawrence amends section 166 to all expiration of approved plans and permits of the Unified Development Code to extend the time for developers to request administrative project extensions from 12 months to 18 months
 You got your line up.
 okay i thought we were going to get a second motion well let's suspend the rules again and go to the third and final reason okay there we go that's a tie very good we have when most in the second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call it right turk yes erzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes
 Yes. And your Orants and Mends, Section 16620, expiration of approved plans and permits of the Unified Development Code to extend the time for developers to request administrative project extensions from 12 months to 18 months. Any final comments from the Council? Karen, would you please call the vote? Heard. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker.
 Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 2023-0035 for approximately 2.44 acres located northwest of North Shallow Drive and West Chicory Place in Ward 2 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from CPCD Commercial Plan Zoning District to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in section 1 Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. This particular property is located in northwest Fayetteville, and as Mayor noted in the title, it is in Ward 2. It is due southwest of the interchange of Interstate 49 and Highway 112. Dialing in a little bit more specifically, this site can be found as you head south along Shiloh from Sam's Club. It's the last
 lats platted lot before you get to Chicory Place, which you can see in the aerial. It's a stub out street that was intended to serve as access for this and the adjacent property to the south. The property is currently undeveloped and partially within tree canopy. As I threatened at agenda session, this property does merit a little bit of additional background, which I'll take a moment to touch on. The land use history of this property began with annexation in the late 1960s.
 Good work they did back then on that map. Our zoning records from soon thereafter indicate that it was zoned industrially along with just about every piece of land between Dean Solomon and Shiloh.
 It remained as such until 2003, when the Springwoods PZD was adopted by city council. This was followed specifically, as we narrow in on the property in question, by the Meadowfield Commercial Subdivision Plat, which included a number of allowed uses, including offices, restaurants, auto trades, like car dealerships. If you've been to the area, you can understand what is or was allowed, rather.
 Between 2003 and today, however, the PCD expired. At that time, you can see their aerial image where a lot of streets were cut in. A lot of projects had been approved, but not all the developments had come through.
 Which brings us to today and the request before you, RZN 2023-035. The request is to rezone this one property, Lot 10 of the Meadowfield Commercial Subdivision, from an expired PZD to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 When reviewing the request from a land use compatibility standpoint staff does find it to be so The location of the property in very close proximity to one of the city's few interstate interchanges Adjacent to a trail and near several employment opportunities We find to be an appropriate place to allow the uses within the urban thoroughfare zoning district which includes a
 a wide range of activities, including everything from a single family home up to an apartment building and on the non-residential side, everything from offices to auto-oriented uses, some of which you see immediately to the south as you move south on Shiloh.
 Considering the request from a land use plan standpoint, staff finds it to be consistent as well. We feel it is consistent with both our long-range plans and the council's previous policy direction during the zoning action in 2003. The UT Zoning District accommodates all the uses allowed in 2003.
 The previous PZD but it also supplements that with several uses that the city has identified as being important to be allowed in other areas They weren't previously permitted specifically residential uses which the urban thoroughfare zoning district permits and
 Additionally, when looking at it from an infill standpoint, there are several elements that we find complementary to residential uses like access to trail, park, as Underwood Park develops to the west of Wilson Springs, and Sames Club includes a grocery store to the north. When you're considering either non-residential or residential uses, there are some infill elements that can be complementary to that, including access to water and sewer.
 One identified issue that I wanted to touch on is the tree canopy will decline from what was the previous PZD. PZDs do require 25%, just about the highest standard in the city. If rezoned to UT, that will reduce it to 15%.
 An interesting point with this PZD is despite the Wilson Springs or Springwoods PZD being adopted with a focus on preserving the interior green space, the Wilson Springs area, each individual project on the periphery also has to meet our tree preservation standards, which is why as you look at some of the car dealerships to the south, there are areas of, or forested areas on those properties as well. So kind of a way of increasing the amount of canopy in that area.
 uh all told staff is recommending approval of the request the planning commission forwarded it to council by a split vote of six to two those that supported it felt that the ut urban thoroughfare zoning district was consistent with the uses in the area there were a few dissenting opinions that had concerns or that this may not um
 be consistent with what they felt was a gateway to the city and had, I think, a particular issue with the potential that it could be developed with a gas station or car washes, which are allowed by right under the Urban Thoroughfare zoning district. With all that said, staff has not received any public comment to date. I'm happy to take questions and Mayor Will Kellstrom is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Mayor Weill- Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Good evening, Council. My name is Will Kjeldstrom here on behalf of the applicant. I want to thank Jonathan for his lovely staff report, which I think was very thorough, but I do have a few comments. So starting with the current zoning, it's like Jonathan said, it's currently zoned CPZD. That CPZD is expired. So to my knowledge, this means it would have to be re-approved before anything can be built there.
 which essentially means that the current zoning is useless, as is really nothing can or likely will be built there. What we've asked for is UT, which is the highest tier of the form-based mixed-use zoning you guys have in your code. The code by definition says that the intent is to commercial and mixed use near major thoroughfares.
 City Plan 2040 calls for this to be high-intensity mixed-use. Staff agrees that UT is the most proper zoning here with relatively few negative comments, really just the tree canopy, which I'll address in a moment.
 So, all of that being said, if this property is not supposed to be UT, then I'm not really sure what it is supposed to be. The surrounding uses, it's right next to VOLD Vision, which is a medical office use. It's next to the Wilson Springs Reserve. And like Jonathan said, it's adjacent to a major interchange on Interstate 49. So I think it's certainly compatible with VOLD.
 As for Wilson Springs Preserve, with UT being a form-based zoning, it will force us to shift whatever is built there to the front of the property, and it will have to address Chicory and Shiloh, which by definition means that it is moving whatever is being built there away from Wilson Springs Preserve. So I would say from that standpoint, UT is compatible with the preserve as well, just from the way it will force us to build. Okay.
 And then as stated before, this is right next to Interstate 49. It's right next to a major interchange. And for that reason, I would say that it's compatible with the interstate as well.
 I'd like to point out that we're not asking for C2 or any of the outdated commercial zonings that you guys have. I was pretty adamant with my client that the form-based zonings are what the city prefers to see and that's what we should go for. And they were up for building within that framework. So we've requested UT and we're trying to go with the style of zoning that you guys have expressed a like for.
 So this went to Planning Commission in January. It passed with a 6-2 vote. There was no public comment, largely, I would say, because nobody lives near there. There's not really any residential or anyone to come make comment on this. The commissioners that were in favor of it thought it was a good spot for high-intensity development. It aligns with City Plan 2040 and cited the necessity of rezoning, sort of what I talked about earlier, and the current zoning is more or less useless. Those that were against it...
 Cited that it was a gateway to the city and that a couple unfavorable uses were allowed like gas stations car washes and drive-throughs So to that I would say those things are allowed in UT however I don't feel I don't think it's likely that the market would produce a type of type of development like that on the property and
 Gas stations, car washes, and drive-thrus, they usually want to be on pieces of property with high visibility, convenient access, high vehicle per day count. This property really doesn't have the sort of things that would make it suitable for a drive-thru. You kind of have to get off the interstate, drive up, and then get on Shiloh and drive down. For that reason, I don't think any of those highway auto type uses are really what you would see being built here. So those things are allowed under UT.
 But I don't think they're the best or the most likely candidate for what's going to happen here. Jonathan brought up earlier the tree canopy reduction. To the extent that y'all want to consider this or lay out the way that we have it right now for our development, we're going to be at about 23%. Of course, you guys would have to wait until that came through on large scale and planning commission would approve that. But for what it's worth, we'll probably be above 15% when we ultimately get it built.
 So the question in front of you guys today is, is this zoning the highest and best zoning for the property, and is it compatible? And based on staff, city plan 2040, and some of the arguments put forward tonight, I would say that it is. So with that, I'm here. If you guys have any questions, thank you. What questions does the council have for the app and our staff? Not many. Okay. Well, then, let's take some public comment. Okay.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak after that who would like to address this on this
 Surprise, surprise, Mayor, I would. You're going to get some public comment tonight. And I'm going to ask you not to pass this, certainly not tonight. Normally I like UT, especially in this kind of area. I like form-based codes. But a PZD is your only chance to talk in resuming about the specifics.
 and to negotiate with the developer. They let you secure extras for the public interest in exchange for creativity on the developer's part. This was 269 acres of PZD that was negotiated back in 2003 when Planning Commissioner Bunch was involved. I was reading the minutes earlier and saw your name in there.
 It was about 60 pages of discussion in the minutes, so you may have to refresh my memory because I did not get through it all. But what I understood was that this was set aside for some sort of education center related to the Audubon Society in that BZD and expired or not, that's an unmet commitment.
 A PZD is like I said your only time to talk about specifics. It seems crazy that somebody could come in make commitments in a PZD, build the parts they want, skip the parts that the public interest held, then let the PZD expire and be offscout free. That makes sense to me. You should, since this is a rezoning, you should not consider the specific project. You should only consider the range of uses.
 And the range of uses in UT seems to have been the topic tonight. This next thing I'm going to tell you is nothing you can't find on the City website in the public calendar, but next Planning Commission will hear a conditional use permit request for mini storage on this exact parcel.
 So, that's within the range of possible uses in UT with a conditional use permit. So I'm fine if you all want to change the use on this to something other than the originally promised education center as long as it's something that's still beneficial to the agreement from back in 2003, but I don't think that UT secures that commitment tonight.
 And the one use that seems most likely given the Planning Commission agenda is definitely not desirable or appropriate here. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this in the chamber? Who do you have on? No one's on. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 The only thing I'd like to say is that you use your own judgment on this rezoning and all the factors you might think about, but don't delay this thinking you should negotiate with the property owner. That's not what the city council is supposed to do on the zoning situation. You're supposed to just look at the zoning and its uses.
 But you're not supposed to start negotiating with the property owner and say, oh, well, you know, if you do this, then maybe I'll pass the zoning for you. That the Supreme Court specifically says that that is beyond the power of the city council to do. It's it's contract zoning or attempted contract zoning. Now we had a different situation when we had a PZD presented back then. That's why it took so long for everybody to make their statements.
 And there was a lot of concern about any development on there and in fact the developer then Dedicated a very large amount for Wilson Springs to preserve it and that's still there that was preserved There was some talk about the Audubon Society Obtaining this property and why that never did why the Audubon Society did not they I don't know I don't know it would've been nice if they had but they didn't and even if that PCD was still in effect. I
 the owner could come in and ask for rezoning, which is what he would have to do if he wanted to change something from the PZD. So now we're in a situation where the PZD is over and this must be rezoned something. We can't leave this property out there sitting undevelopable.
 So it's up to you what you want to do, but I just don't want you to think that we need to engage in negotiations with the owner to see what they'll give us if we'll give them because that's improper according to the Supreme Court. Okay. Theresa. Thank you, Mayor. You know, I went through and looked at all the different zoning types for UT. They're long, they're extensive, they're our highest density. You can go to seven stories.
 And also, I kind of drove by this area too, and it's a little low lying. I think it would behoove everybody to kind of drive past there. I'm a bit uncomfortable with UT because I personally always have to assume that the least desirable of those lists may come in there. That's the least desirable to me. So you all might wanna,
 I'm not going to support this, at least at this point in time, because I don't think a gas station or some of these other options are something that would be desirable in that location. There's a big difference between a gas station being there and Volt Vision being right next door, an office building right next door. So I think that there could be other...
 rezonings that are less intensive and have a narrower option of different uses in the area. Thanks. So right now it's kind of in a zoning limbo, is that correct? The zoning on it has expired? That's correct. And so we have a person with a property that until it does get zoned is unbuildable and usable and I have a problem with leaving properties like that.
 If there is a better zoning, I would love to hear it. But I think that with these properties, I mean, we might need to take a look at all these expired zoning properties and get them zoned so that we, you know, if we do want some control, let's be proactive and do that. But leaving a property owner in limbo is just doesn't seem like a great idea to me. And it seems unfair.
 It's two and a half acres. It's not a, you know, I might feel differently if this was 10 acres, 20 acres and above, but I don't see a gas station going in there. If it does, again, come back and say, Bob, I told you so. It's just not amenable to that, you know, you got the Sam's Club gas station right around the corner. No one's going to compete with that.
 You'd think we'd reach a saturation level with car washes by this point. And I do almost wonder, because this seems to come up again and again, that we're always worried about car washes in gas stations, which I understand. I mean, man, I'm surprised at the amount of car washes. I'm not part of that market.
 Maybe we need to separate out those types of auto-centric uses from our UT. Maybe that's something to look at so that we don't have to have that worry over our head of is this going to be the worst case scenario that comes in. But yeah, those are my points. I'm kind of, I don't know, I might have to roll the dice here. I just want to make those points.
 I appreciate what was shared tonight about being mindful about form-based zoning when this was brought forward with the applicant. I do appreciate that. I know and I'm sure our city attorney will point out we're not able to talk about the specific project that would be on there in our full consideration.
 However, I was approached by the applicant some time back who had expressed a desire to put mini storage on this location. And in that conversation I expressed.
 a great desire that that not be the direction, that we are in a housing crisis and that housing people's belongings in a very prime location that had already had tremendous infrastructure developed by our taxpayers was not the highest best use of that property. And so it's the struggle, right, of I hope that we'll continue to have deeper conversations and with more urgency about getting our,
 our development code readjusted to maybe dial in some of our zones a little tighter, you know, for these kind of sensitive type areas. I heard, and Jonathan sharing with us, he specifically pointed out the fact that this has
 You know close proximity to our trail that is a desirable thing and employment opportunities UT does allow for quite desirable development that would be a higher best use and Collaborate in partnership with those amenities that are there in that location, you know, so for me when we're only looking tonight
 you know what that property can do today which is true it has no zoning it needs a zone so we kind of have to look at her our bag what's available i see many that are quite undesirable that i would not want to put here and so i see ut you know as that option because it does have some quite desirable
 I really would like to say that when community partners are coming forward, applicants with these projects, that they're mindful and they're sensitive to the needs of our community. And so I'm going to put a lot of onus on our planning commission that when they're looking at the projects in conjunction with the zoning, that they make the best decision for our community. And I hope they will, and I'm going to trust that they will. So for me tonight, I'd be supportive of the zoning.
 I would never mention about a possible use because the city attorney has corrected me every time that I've even looked in that direction. And so I'm not looking there tonight, but if storage is an issue, a conditional use permit is required in this zone. And I think that if this council is not in favor of that, or this planning commission,
 is not in favor and doesn't send it to us. Storage cannot happen on the site just because of the zoning. And so I'm much more comfortable. It is freeway frontage. It does seem with staff's recommendation that it's not unreasonable to proceed with this particular zone that's requested. Thank you. I'm gonna resuspend the rules and go to the second reading. And I can public comment on this. They're not. I did. You did, yeah, you did. Okay, okay, okay.
 All right, so it's a motion to go to the second reading. Yeah, I second it. Okay, thank you. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Yes.
 And orange the reason on that property is cried and rezoning petition RZ and 2023 dash 35 for approximately two point four four acres located Northwest of North Shiloh Drive and West chicory place in Ward two from CPCD commercial planned zoning district to UT urban thoroughfare Mo make a motion to spin the rules go third and final read second Motion second go third and finally care which please go third No
 Hertzberg no Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Weedeker no Berna yes Bunch no okay we're staying on this reading then what that did not pass so we're staying on the second reading all right
 Mayor, can I ask the City Attorney a follow-up question on this item? Sure. Kit, I'm not quite sure. I know I'm kind of skipping ahead to Planning Commission, but since it's been brought up, the conditional use permit that would be under UT, what kind of considerations does the Planning Commission have for items under UT?
 Well, compatibility is one of the things that they look at. And, of course, there's not too much to be incompatible with down that area except for that one office building. So that would be something they're looking at. There is a difference between rezoning
 and conditional uses. Rezoning is a legislative act that the city council takes, and it's almost certainly going to be upheld by the courts. I haven't lost a rezoning case in the 22 years plus I've been here. And that's not because I'm smart. It's because the standard is arbitrary and capricious, and you can always find something that wasn't just crazy in making that decision. On the other hand, a conditional use is an administrative act.
 And therefore, if it's appealed, instead of having that arbitrary and capricious impossible standard, you have a standard where it's as if you said nothing, and the jury in the county is going to decide what to do. And they have broad, broad discretion. So it could be turned down for...
 By conditional use, they could lose their conditional use and not have it prevail about many stories. They could appeal to circuit court. And then you've got a juror probably with almost no faithful citizens on it. Mainly the county in Springdale will be the ones that the plaintiff would choose. Making the decision about whether or not the conditional use should be approved. So there's a big difference between those two.
 One thing I have heard in this discussion is saying that this is a good place for multifamily. We have multifamily zones that don't have mini storage as conditional uses and don't have automobile trades as a part. You all are legislators.
 You should consider what the applicant has asked for, just like planning did, just like the planning commission did, but you don't have to follow that. This should be rezoned something, please. It has to be rezoned something. But you can also look at high density multifamily if you think that residential is what is needed here, is appropriate here,
 And you don't want to have a zone that allows conditions, uses that you don't think is appropriate, or you think that they're wrong, or unattractive, or not in Fayetteville's best interest. You all are the legislators here. You make the decision when it comes to zoning. When it comes to a conditional use, you make a little bit of a decision, but it's surely not written in stone.
 I just have a quick follow-up question. You mentioned that the Planning Commission could take into consideration about compatibility and like bold vision next door. Can they also take into consideration the nature preserve next door? Is that? Well, I'm not going to limit them. I mean, they have broad discretion in trying to decide a condition reuse just like there was a field up here you would too. What I'm saying is that that's never the end of the story.
 If they want to go to Circuit Court, this is a very good piece of property. You know, two and a half acres out there. You could get a lot of good things on it. And so it's valuable property. And so if they really were trying very hard or had their ace in the hole is this multi-storage facility, which is not necessarily bad. I mean, we need multi-storage. No question about it. It depends. Is this the right location for it?
 Well, I'm sure we'll continue this on in a couple of weeks now, won't we? Well, let's move along to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-036 for approximately 15.66 acres located north of West Technology Way in Ward 4 from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural. Yes.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2, Thoroughfare Commercial, to C.S., Community Services, and R.A., Residential Agricultural.
 section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Jonathan. Thank you mayor sorry I'm a little bit of a technical difficulty if this works
 There we are, apologies. This property takes us to West Fayetteville. We're a few miles due south on Shiloh, but still north of MLK. Getting in more specifically, we're about half a mile south of Interstate 49's interchange with Weddington. As you proceed down Shiloh Drive from the interchange, you come across this property, which is on the southwest corner of Persimmon Street and Shiloh Drive. The property is currently undeveloped for the greater extent of it.
 As you can see on the aerial image here, there's an S curve running through the property that's part of Fayetteville's trail network. Just east of that is a lower detention pond that represents part of the master stormwater plan for this property and the property due south of it.
 Also of note, you can see that there is an area of floodplain that begins at the outfall of that drainage facility. And that orange you see there is effectively its 500-year floodplain, rather than the blue you typically see, which is 100-year floodplain. Hmm, guess I'm still having issues. Sorry, let me try this again. There we go.
 The request before council tonight is to split zone the property. So what it is today is about just over 15 acres of C2 thoroughfare commercial zoned property. As you all may recall, C2 is our most intensive singularly non-residential zoning district. That's what you think of when you think of our typical thoroughfare development pattern. What the applicant is proposing is to rezone about 13 acres of the property to CS, community
 and reserve about two and a half acres of the property as RA, residential agricultural. If you have the opportunity to visit the site or if you're simply familiar with it, you know that the areas that are zoned RA here represent the extent of the canopy on the property in addition to some areas of topography as it begins to slope upward towards Centennial Park.
 When considering the request for compatibility, staff finds it to be exceptionally so. This particular property at an intersection that represents a transition between commercial, purely commercial properties to the south and residential properties to the north is an ideal location to insert a mixed use zoning district that allows both. The CS zoning district allows single, two, three, four family apartment buildings. It allows smaller scale restaurants and offices as well.
 From a long range planning standpoint, the property's future land use map designation of city neighborhood areas is very complimentary to the CS zoning district. That future land use designation and the CS zoning district both emphasize a diversity of uses at fairly high intensity. Additionally, the intersection of Shiloh and Persimmon is identified as a Tier 2 center in our growth concept map. And the allowance to mix uses at this location is similarly compatible with that.
 When considering the items that contribute to its infill score, there are about seven to eight. It would be eight to nine, but again, I noted that portion of floodplain which subtracts from that score. Otherwise, it does have access to transit, water and sewer. The trail I mentioned earlier, Centennial Park's just up the hill and the Walmart neighborhood market is just the northwest along Weddington.
 When considering additional considerations on this property, ultimately this request will increase the amount of tree preservation requirement. Our foresters take a weighted average of different canopy requirements between zoning districts. So by inserting that RA zoning standard, it will effectively raise what would otherwise be a 15% canopy requirement to a higher level.
 Also, I previously noted the floodplain in the northeast corner of the property. It's also subject to our streamside protection standards, so staff does not anticipate any form of development effectively in that northeast corner of the site. Otherwise, we have received one piece of public comment in advance of the Planning Commission meeting. A member of the public spoke with the planner on the item and did express their support for it.
 Oh, I'm sorry, I meant to draw your attention to this. I know we've been discussing the floodplain maps that have been changing lately. I think this might be the last meeting where the exhibits in your report reflect our previous FEMA map, so I wanted to make sure this was included. The changes are somewhat marginal in this one. You can see the green, which is largely on the developable side of this property, will be reduced or eliminated from the FEMA floodplain standards, whereas the areas in red closer to Shiloh will represent those portions that will be added.
 Sorry, are we still considering that?
 Okay, gotcha. Yeah, you bet. With all that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it unanimously to the City Council, recommending in favor of it. They found the existing C2 zone district to be obsolete, considering our city goals, and expressed a preference for the CS zoning district's removal of auto-oriented uses. I'm sorry, not removal, but placement of auto-oriented uses onto the list of conditional uses where they may be subject to more scrutiny.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. Mayor Will Kellstrom is also the applicant on this item. Thank you. Mayor Weill- Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening again. Will Kellstrom here on behalf of the applicant. I think Jonathan's presentation was pretty thorough. I just have a few comments that the applicant wanted to be put in front of y'all.
 So Jonathan talked a lot already about this mix of R.A. zoning. The way we came to that is we sort of talked to staff, figured out what the best zoning would be for this property. We arrived at CS. We submitted it. I placed in a note to the staff.
 that there is a section of the property which is on a slope and has a large amount of existing trees on it and if they would like to see that zoned RA, we'd be happy to do that. So when staff came back and they said we actually would like you to amend the request, we sectioned off that two and a half acres for RA. It's the area of the property that we don't really want to develop anyway, so it's kind of a no-brainer. As for what we're gonna build there,
 The detention pond is can't be touched. It's used for detention for another development nearby. It's also in a floodplain, which we don't have any particular desire to monkey with.
 So the development will be concentrated on the portion of the property that is flattest and is not on top of a trailer or detention pond. And my client wanted me to let you all know that as far as the trail portion, we plan on putting some town homes near the trail that sort of address it and incorporate it into the development. But otherwise, this was recommended from planning commission unanimously. So I'm here if you guys have any questions.
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Tracy. Mayor, well, if you could come back just for a second. I want to make sure that during our conversations that I understood this correctly. So you all are not planning on developing east of the trail. Is that accurate? That is accurate. Well, so I take that back. The pond that's there, yeah.
 The developer would like to maybe put in some fountains lights or something, a trail around it, kind of clean it up and make it something nicer than a dirty pond by the highway. So that's it though. Great, thank you. I wanna also, while you're here, I just wanna commend you all for recognizing RA and going that extra step to preserve the trees and the canopy and the wildlife in that area, thank you.
 anything else okay let's take some public comment if i get one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone yes come on i've been kind of grumpy tonight but a contextual well thought out proposal like that
 that supports the city goals in areas of maps that we've envisioned deserves to have more than one member of the public support it so i'll be the second thank you for that proposal that's a good one um i hope that we could start to do more of those for folks so that they don't have to do the heavy lifting of fixing our old zoning thank you who else would like to address us okay who do you have on zoom nobody okay i'm gonna bring it back to the council
 It is an ordinance. Yes, Teresa. If no one has any comments or questions, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. Second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes.
 yes and orange to rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZ n 22 23-36 or approximately fifteen point six six acres located north of West technology West technology way in Ward four from C to thoroughfare commercial to CS community services and our a residential agricultural but we suspend the rules go the third and final reading second
 motion second yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2023-36 for approximately 15.66 acres located north of West Technology Way in Ward 4 from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural. Any final comments from the council? Caravans, please call the roll. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Batch? Yes.
 Do we have any announcements that concludes our business? Right, just a couple. So people can be planning the spring bulky waste pickup starts March 23rd. I'll remind you again of the dates and times, but it starts in March toward the end. And then again, the nominations for the Mayor's Environmental Stewardship Award are being taken by the Environmental Action Committee until the end of this month. And Kara, I'm not sure if you wanted to give another plug.
 Just as a reminder, board committee applications are due right now for the first quarter. So if you have any questions, please contact our office. Thank you. Senator, did you have something? Okay. Everybody good? All right. We're adjourned.