Would like to call the City Council meeting of February the 21st 2017 to order Sondra, would you please call the roll here? Here here here here here here present Here here. Would you join me in the pledge for allegiance? I?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business we have tonight, an award presentation and certificate of achievement, two awards. Good evening, counsel. The first award we have received, again...
 It's a certificate of achievement of excellence in financial reporting presented to the city of federal Arkansas for its comprehensive annual Financial report for the fiscal year ended December the 31st 2015 Well, I think the certificate I will accept on behalf of our accounting department which really does a fantastic job For us here in the city, and I think this clearly displays that I
 Okay, before you sit down though, we have another award tonight from the Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada, an award of financial reporting achievement to Paul Becker. Paul A. Becker, Finance and Internal Services Director for the City of Federal Arkansas. I'd like to present this to you, Paul. Well, thank you very much, Mayor. I appreciate that.
 And I want to, again, thank my staff and thank the council and the mayor for your support. All of this helps in this particular award. Thank you. Thank you, Paul. That's very well deserved. You do a great job for us here. Thank you very much again. All right. Next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the January 31, 2017 special city council meeting minutes.
 and the February 7, 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a settlement agreement with JL Bryson, Inc. and CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. regarding a delayed claim associated with the installation of ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant to approve a payment in the amount of $19,000 to JL Bryson, Inc. and approve a budget adjustment.
 And number three, a resolution pursuant to Federal Code of Ordinances Section 39.10 to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $6,258.18 to Irvin Kaiser for a wastewater damage claim arising at 2232 North Briarwood Lane, in addition to a previous payment of $14,557.62 to Irvin Kaiser.
 serve pro for sewer damage mitigation services. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, an unfinished business. Number one, a resolution to adopt a solid waste reduction diversion and recycling master plan is developed by Kessler Consulting Incorporated. Staff I believe you have something new on this. Yes, Mayor and Council. This plan was first heard on December 6th and was discussed twice and then recommended to go back to the Council. Staff, we're going to... Mayor, you need to turn your mic on. All right. There we go.
 we staff discuss this and then with a
 and brought forth a recommendation for the mayor and he approved this recommendation kind of run through this memo that we put in adoption of a plan with a modified implementation schedule to prioritize organic composting and the release of an rfp to to potentially secure a contract with the processor for the recovery and recycling of construction and demolition material
 and the development of a communications plan to increase community participation in support of the mayors and the city's commitment to waste diversion so we brought forward the original plan there was much discussion about that so we went back and looked at what are possible ways we could modify this to come up with a plan that we felt was reachable and attainable the the
 The organics program was one of the main things. We have that facility in place at this time, and we have been working with the state to obtain a permit to continue operation of that. The RFP is a way of looking at potential ways for C&D recovery, and we'll be looking into that. The 80% diversion goal, we felt like even if we followed every –
 thing recommended in the Kessler plan. It was a top out of 50% of attaining 50% diversion. So what we went back and looked at was how could we break this down with those two components that we seem to have a consensus on and look at there was 22% of the C&D material that they said was in the waste stream and also about 16% on food waste.
 That's pretty close to a 40% thing, and if we look at the diversion that we get from our recycling program we have in place now, it runs about 57%. So we took those numbers and looked at, we felt like obtaining half of that over the next 10-year period was an obtainable goal that we could shoot for, and then that we could always adjust that as we went through that time period as other things developed.
 We have been in the past in talks with Boston Mountain and Benton County Solid Waste Districts about potential of looking at single stream. We have not come up with anyone stepping forward other than us to address that at this time, so we felt like further investigation of that was warranted.
 The mini-MURF option, which was mentioned in the report, we felt like was not really sustainable due to the fact that when and if anyone else did come in the area, that it would essentially become obsolete, and we would have an investment that we would no longer use. In looking at trying to come up with some way to deal with multifamily apartment recycling, staff has been looking at that with the idea that any things like townhouses,
 three triplexes, fourplexes, things like that that had street frontage that we felt like we could possibly bring into the fold under our current recycling program. We now have curbside. So what we're suggesting here is to look at anything from triplexes to 24-unit apartments with those stipulations in mind.
 We'll evaluate those one by one and see what we can come up with there to expand some type of apartment recycling into this program. The main thing that we need to address more than anything is a resolution of some type of direction on how you want us to go. We've kind of been in a limbo situation of trying to figure that out while we were doing this process, and we are...
 We need to make several decisions. Our truck fleet is in the process of needing to be replaced. We have delayed that as long as possible to give us the advantage of having more money collected if we did try to go a different direction.
 We're going to need to start replacing that fleet in a pretty aggressive manner over the next couple of years. This could also, however we address this, would also affect how we can address the need of a rate study. And once we pick this decision on which direction we're going, we will formulate that rate study to meet those goals.
 And then we also need to look at just capital planning in general for whatever we need to do. We're getting ready to start a capital planning process also. Anyway, we cannot continue to delay most of these decisions and still meet the needs of the enterprise fund. So I respectfully request you consider that when you.
 when you think about this tonight. And I'm gonna let Brian give you a real quick update kinda on where we are, some of the things that our recycling program has been doing and where we think we've been in the last two or three years. Okay, I was hoping the slide would pop up on the screen. Okay, so as Terry alluded to on our operations and our collections, we're pretty much maxed out
 Currently with what we're doing across the city I wanted to give the council and the public a little background of where we've been as well So you can kind of understand some of the operational concerns that have come up within this planning process since 2008 which was the Time previous when we started had an RW Beck study Look at our recycling program since then we have implemented a
 business recycling through the curbside collections and now we service 320 businesses With our curbside program we implemented a paper dumpster program that allows all schools Both public and private to recycle their paper and currently we have 24 dumpsters out in service for that We have implemented a commercial glass recycling program in our entertainment district and
 for commercial glass, which we also have two industrial accounts, Hannah's Candles and American Air Filter, in which we get glass and we add that to our residential collections and drop-off collections.
 We opened and we service and staff the Mary Norton Recycling Drop-Off, which last year had 26,033 visitors to that site. A lot of people come there to recycle their materials. It's a really good interaction with city staff and the public. It provides good education face-to-face to the people that come there, and they learn a lot about what they can recycle and how to recycle correctly by attending that.
 We developed a recycling how-to guide for festival recycling, and we provide ClearStream racks and bags and other containers for recycling at festivals that is coordinated through the festival permitting process in the city. We've secured grant funding and placed into service 50 public space recycling containers in the city parks. We have another 25 waiting to be put into service here in the next couple of months.
 We also implemented an apartment recycling program using the large roll-off containers for separated recycling. And currently we have six of those in operation. So I think what you can see there is, in addition to the curbside and the drop-off program, we've actually added a lot of service these last few years. But since 2013, which I'm looking on the slide here,
 2013, when we started the Recycle Something campaign for our education and marketing program, we have increased the amount of recycling bins that we pick up at the curb by 9,000 a month. If you guys will remember back in 2013.
 About 2014 we mailed out these magnets to all the residents Has all the information about what's recyclable? Uses the recycling something campaign with the icons and the simple language bright colors Stick that on your your refrigerator at home help you remember what to recycle we were trying to push the two bin system if you'll remember at that time and
 where we wanted residents to have two recycling bins so they could put all their bottles and cans, glass containers into one, and then paper items like newspaper, mixed paper in the other, cardboard was flattened and placed underneath the heaviest bin on collection day.
 So when we mailed these out, we got a lot of response from people. If you remember, we were trying to get our participation rate up from 55% where it's been pretty stagnant. That's been pretty well documented through this whole process. But we were trying to get it close to 50, sorry, 70%, which is what you would typically see in single stream collections. And when we did that, what we found was we had a lot of people calling and wanting more bins.
 But it wasn't necessarily people that were not recycling. It was people that wanted to recycle more and have more bins at their home. So that's good. We got them more bins. Hopefully they're sorting that stuff better at the curb, which our guys will tell you not everybody does. In fact, the majority don't. And we have to sort that through those operations at the curb. But what transpired out of that whole process was 9,000 extra bins that add to our operational concerns.
 So that's something that we deal with on a daily basis. And then in our MRF processing, with all this additional material that comes in and trying to tie that into our other operations, our roll-off operations, we also have to use the transfer station when we send out glass and trying to work through those operations. Time-wise, volume-wise, it's just added a lot to the system, and we feel like we need some additional equipment
 manpower possibly there to help us with that coming up. And then the next slide talks about the communications plan. Back in October of 2013, we started the Recycle Something education and marketing campaign, and we launched that in coordination with the opening, the grand opening, of the Mary Norton Recycling Drop-Off. And I know many of you were there and attended that.
 But the Recycle Something campaign kicked off at that time. It was basically our education marketing efforts across the city. The education plan is based on the philosophy of community-based social marketing. And what that is, it's a philosophy that was developed by Dr. Doug McKenzie Moore. It's been used by countless communities and organizations implementing environmentally sustainable behavior change programs.
 Dr. Moore is a behavioral psychologist, and so he's interested in how people think and why they do the things they do. And so this community-based social marketing, which is the basis of our education program,
 Delves into that uses things like social norming incentives prompts Looks at removing the barriers that keep people from doing a certain behavior in this case We want people to recycle so what is that barrier that keeps them from recycling? What we've determined through this process from over three or four years now is that the main thing that keeps people from participating curbside is
 And our program is the bin itself. During this pilot that we did, we got a lot of feedback from the community. It was overwhelmingly, quite honestly, overwhelmingly negative on the bin. And so that's where we are at with the bin. We also contract with Boston Mountain Solid Waste to fund a part-time education position.
 Each year we sit down and work on a scope of work with the county and the district to handle new tasks for the upcoming year. In 2016 that position did over 80 presentations. It works out to about one every three and a quarter days, business days. We reached 1,076 adults, 2,246 children, and 1,400 adults and children through different presentations, programs, outreach efforts.
 tabling at events, all kinds of things. Our media services department, Doug Bankston and his crew are phenomenal, outstanding at helping us with our education program. If you go on to recyclesomething.org and look at that website you will see a link to the YouTube channel that has all the videos that we have made since the creation of the program.
 and if you haven't seen them i encourage you to do it especially check out the newest one that we've got it's the very first one in the queue it's our the first three years we were trying to work on awareness of the program to get people to tie the fact that recycle something was the city's recycling program we've moved beyond that point now and we're trying to educate people more about what is recyclable and so when you look at this new commercial that's out um
 you will see that and we actually show pictures bottles cans paper and our main actor there goes through the whole list yes this can be recycled no this can't and it's done in a humorous fashion I encourage you to check it out but media services those commercials get through contracts are placed on Cox cable which when we started doing our door-to-door surveying of the program back
 2012 what we found most was that the females in the home were the ones that drove recycling participation they're the ones that made their husbands do it maybe you know encourage their kids to take it out to the curb or whatever so when we looked at our Cox contract we looked at channels that women ages 25 to 52 would view the most and that's where we put those commercials
 We also have commercials showing on the Razorback, Malco Theater, and Fiesta Square. So if you get there early enough, you can see some of those. Unfortunately, they don't show them right when the trailers start. Oh, and also, Media Services has won Emmys for those commercials. So they've been an outstanding partner with us in that endeavor.
 In 2015, we won ADEQ's Envy Award, which is the state's premier environmental stewardship award, and we won that based on our Recycle Something campaign. All the things that we have done, all the outreach, all the commercials, all the promotional things, all the programs that we put in place off of that is why we won that award. So that's something that we're very proud of and that you should be proud of as well.
 And then the last thing I wanted to state here was when residents move into Fayetteville and they go sign up for their water service, they are given information about our services. So curbside recycling, happen to live in an apartment, apartment recycling. Skip those two for a second. Yard waste collection, pay as you throw trash collection. All of these have been broken down and redesigned with a lot of white space.
 A lot of icons, a lot of pictures, encouraging people to read this. Our previous brochures, if you remember, quite frankly looked like an ordinance and nobody wanted to read it. It was a real small type because we had to put everything into one brochure and nobody read it. And so one of the first things we did in 2013 when we started talking to people about education, they said, you know, get rid of that, do this. And this is what we've done.
 We also have commercial recycling for businesses, and we also have one of our drop-off programs. So that's all available for people here at City Hall on our website to learn about our programs.
 So the last thing on that bullet right there was in the original plan it said to adopt a green city initiative, which we already do a lot of that to be honest with you. The city already has an environmentally preferable purchasing program. We already have started doing public space recycling. We already have recycling going on in just about every business, I mean every office in the city.
 That's already happening, so this would just be another way to tie all that up and document. So at this time, I'll let Jeff talk a little bit about the C&D. Well, I'm going to touch. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm just going to touch briefly on the construction and demolition debris processing. Okay.
 that was part of that, was included in that staff memo as one of the primary tenants moving forward. But in 2015, the City managed approximately 15,000 tons. This is a big piece of our waste stream pie. Twenty-two percent of our waste stream is construction and demolition debris and other bulky waste, more than 70 percent of which consisted of materials that could potentially be recycled based on a visual audit.
 DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE CITY HAS BEEN INCREASING AND WE IMAGINE AND BELIEVE THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO INCREASE, WHICH GIVES REASON TO BELIEVE THAT THIS TUNNEL MAY REMAIN AT THIS LEVEL OR CONTINUE TO INCREASE. WE WOULD LIKE OBVIOUSLY THERE'S AND IN THE MEMO AS WELL, THERE'S AN ACTION ITEM OR A PROPOSED ITEM TO RELEASE AN RFP TO SECURE A CONTRACT WITH A PROCESSOR FOR THE RECOVERY AND RECYCLING OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION MATERIAL.
 Just real quickly, I'll talk about a facility. If there is a privately owned, I mean, we would seek a viable partnership or a viable partner and accountability to go along with that. If one of them were privately owned, C&D MRFs becomes permitted and operational in northwest Arkansas, and I believe there is one that is permitted. At what level they operate right now, I do not know.
 THE CITY SHOULD MEET THE FACILITY REPRESENTATIVES TO DETERMINE THE ROLE EACH MIGHT PLAY IN MAXIMIZING RECYCLING OF C&D DEBRIS GENERATED IN THE CITY. AN ANALYSIS WOULD BE NEEDED REGARDING THE FEASIBILITY OF CONTRACTING WITH A PRIVATE C&D MERF TO PROCESS C&D AND VULCAN WASTES COLLECTED OR RECEIVED BY THE CITIES. THESE WOULD BE SIGNIFICANT FACTORS, CERTAINLY FACTORS SUCH AS FACILITY LOCATION, GEOGRAPHIC
 And transportation and processing fees would need to be considered along with that. And I would like to just go over the last in the staff memo, there are recommended initial implementation steps to place 105 of the proposed recycling and trash master plan.
 To develop an environmentally and economically sustainable materials management system that maximizes waste diversion and minimizes waste disposal, the following steps are recommended to initiate implementation of the proposed action plan. Number one would be to provide conceptual approval of the proposed plan with implementation of key elements dependent on acceptance
 of detailed implementation plans. Forgive my voice, it's trying to go away on me. Obtain a type CO compostable organics permit for the city's compost facility, which we are in the process working through right now. Number three would be to develop a detailed plan and schedule for initiating a voluntary organics recovery program, focusing initially on large food waste generators and schools.
 And again number four release an RFP to secure a contract with a processor for the recovering recycling of construction and demolition material number five develop a Communications plan to announce the city's commitment to waste diversion and to get buy-in to new initiatives Number six to develop a technical assistance program to inform businesses institutions and multifamily complexes Of the city's waste diversion commitment and help them prepare for new sack new recycling initiatives number seven a
 and the implementation of steps. Adopt a green city initiative, and that was something that Brian alluded to, directing all city-owned or operated buildings to establish comprehensive recycling, organics recovery, and environmentally preferable purchasing programs. And number eight, modify building codes to require new commercial and multifamily developments
 to provide adequate space and access for recycling and organics recovery for large commercial food waste generators, which would essentially be an adjacent pad to existing waste collection containers. And I'd like to conclude based on, just to tie into what Terry talked about and the need for direction and also what Brian talked about with increases.
 with the Recycling Something campaign and those 9,000 bins monthly that we collect from that period of time. We have long, we surpassed a threshold, an operational threshold quite some time ago by which we divert, we normally operationally we have 10 recycling, 10 recyclers, 10 recycling trucks, 10 routes each day Monday through Thursday.
 We are now at a stage and have been for quite some time that we have to co-opt essentially relief drivers and backup trucks on Mondays and oftentimes on Thursdays just to be able to cover those routes, and that has become commonplace. So again, we are at a threshold that we've got to find a means to work through that. Thank you.
 Okay, I guess just to sum up, just kind of give you an overview of what we foresee as a possible way to go. We'll bring that back for your consideration and we'll be happy to answer any questions you might have concerning that.
 This has been reviewed by the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee with the recommendation of the administration as well as input from the public. And I would like to bring forth an amendment to the proposed ordinance on the table as published and handed out to City Council. It is the resolution that says master plan on the top of it. Basically, if you're in the audience, this is taking away the single stream ordinance
 And if you see the plan, there's on page 105, we've removed the conversion to single-stream recycling and we've removed the development of a detailed single-stream conversion plan and schedule. And we're replacing that with what was mentioned today by the administration. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Okay. So that was a motion to amend.
 The current resolution currently that we're considering. Well, we have on the agenda. Right. To this. We need to say the resolution. All right. A motion to amend the resolution to the one that was handed out tonight and that I provided to you last week. That's correct. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Yes, ma'am. Ha. We do. I didn't have it on my. May I speak, ma'am? Yes. And then, Sarah. I second the motion. And I think it's a step in the right direction.
 First I heard of the Kestel report, the concept on the Water and Sewer Committee. I was intrigued by the low-hanging fruit of recycling and bringing into our recycle program, our composting program, food waste from cafeterias, from restaurants, commercial-type operations. And I asked my colleagues on the Sewer and Water Committee,
 I would be willing to go along with this low-hanging fruit and go along with this. Can you give me your assurance you won't use coercion or manipulation to achieve an 80% diversion rate? And I couldn't get the cooperation with that. But this is a step in the right direction. We're backing off that 80%. That scares me. I don't want anything that smacks of trash police. I don't want someone digging through my trash saying, oh, you didn't recycle something, you threw away the wrong thing, here's a $50 ticket, or fine.
 And I don't think most of our citizens would want that sort of operation in their backyard. But this is a step in the right direction, and I'm pleased that we're backing off the 80% diversion rate. I think there'll be less of a temptation to use coercion or manipulation to achieve such a very high rate. And I like the idea that we're keeping our curbside recycling
 In all honesty, I have to admit that that in itself is a single stream recycling operation. We're just doing the sorting at the curbside instead of at some central location. But apparently doing it that way, we do save some contamination that could result from a more robust single stream program. So I'm hoping that our citizens will be pleased with this change that we've made. So we're not moving to a single stream. We're just keeping what we have right now.
 My heart does go out, Jeff, to the employees we have fighting the traffic to recycle at curbside. And I see some advantages to going to some kind of truck that has an arm on it that dumps a bin. But I understand that increases contamination. Some of our citizens wouldn't like that. So that might not be politically palatable at this point. But I would like to investigate that further.
 Mr. Mayor, that's it. It's a second to motion for the amendment. Okay. Sarah. Well, I would like to say that while I'm glad that we're trying to make some progress on this, I'm really disappointed that the discussion over single stream is going to result in us lowering our diversion goal, especially in half, down to 40%.
 You know, this is saying that we're going to do better about recycling, whereas before we were saying we were going to be leaders in recycling. And I prefer that approach for a city that tries to be a leader in all things sustainable. And by throwing out single stream, I want us to talk for a moment about the people who are out there doing it every day.
 Our route drivers, they start collecting at 5 a.m. I don't know if you've noticed how cold it's been recently. They're out there in the 10 degree sleet. They're out there in the 100 degree heat and the full humidity.
 They're out there in thunderstorms and all sorts of inclement weather. These are real people sorting your recyclables by the curb. Whether it's the ticks or the mosquitoes, loose dogs or inattentive drivers, they're all posing hazards to these people out there trying to sort recyclables. And it's just a matter of time before a route driver is hit by a car.
 You know, I cannot support endangering our staff when there is a safer, more ergonomic option. Single stream would allow our drivers to collect these recyclables using an automated truck and then take it to a local facility for sorting.
 working in the sorting facility would provide shelter from the elements, ergonomic workstations, better safety gear, access to restrooms, and first aid in the event of accidents. Did you know that our recycling route drivers have the highest job turnover rate and injury rate of all city staff? There is a better way. And did you know that our current curbsort system works great for single-family homes, but not all of Fayetteville residents live in single-family homes?
 Imagine being that recycling worker out there tasked with sorting 24 bins out in front of the apartment complex on the curb. And then they have to go down the street and sort from the restaurants and from the commercial businesses on busy streets. This is not a good solution for our growing city.
 Switching to single stream will allow us to collect those recyclables in bulk and sort them at a facility with the assistance of the latest in recycling technology, including optical sorting that can quickly and accurately differentiate between plastic types.
 And then even though there is some increase in contamination, when that contamination is found, we can properly dispose of it instead of putting it back in the bin so that it can blow into the ditch or our stream sides. And did you know that we're currently limited in the number of different types of materials we can recycle by the number of bins in our trucks?
 Same things with the multiple, the divided bins that we've tried at apartment complexes. We don't have enough bins in those to collect all the different types of materials we can recycle. So we have to make hard choices about who recycles what. And keep in mind that those roll-off bins eat up five to seven parking spaces for the bin and then to access it with the truck to empty it. And as we're trying to build urban infill and densify the core of our city, this is contrary to that.
 to that goal, as well as creating more impervious surface area so that we get contaminants in our stormwater runoff that ends up in our creeks. So our current diversion rate has been stuck at or below 20% for the last 10 years despite aggressive education campaigns.
 And the reality is that over a quarter of our population are students that are highly transient. So as soon as we educate them, they move away and we have a new group every year to educate. Over half of our housing are rental units. And this is a number that's growing. And our current system offers no consistency between different housing types. People in...
 And single-family homes recycle one way. People in apartments have to recycle a different way. You recycle differently at your office or your place of business. And so it's hard for everyone to keep straight, so people are just not doing it.
 The other issue is the bin, and I know people like to complain about our bin, but those are designed to be as ergonomic as possible for our workers. Imagine spending eight hours a day outside doing this. Okay, that's what that bin is for and the reason it's the size it is. But if we switch to single stream, we can switch to the roll-off bins that are easier for people with mobility issues, for our aging population, or for maybe people who just have on their nice clothes and don't want to get them all schmutz-y when they haul their recyclables out to the curb.
 So it makes a lot of sense. And I recognize that there is some loss in the end product of the quality of the recyclable materials when we switch to single stream. But our pilot shows that by making participation simpler and easier, we are able to drastically cut the amount of good usable resources that ends up in our landfill. And I think that's a worthy goal.
 So I support single stream because it's safer for our workers. It enables us to be significantly more inclusive in the people and businesses we serve. And it results in an exponential decrease in the amount of waste that ends up in our landfill. Single stream isn't perfect, but it offers important advantages over where we are now and will more easily scale up as we continue to grow our city. So I hope you will join me in supporting single stream. Thank you.
 Okay. Alan. Thank you, Mayor. Tonight I just want to look back at how well Fayetteville has done with its curbsort program. Fayetteville has done a great job protecting our recyclable commodities, and that's made it so that buyers still give us priority in our down markets compared to other cities selling more contaminated materials. We've maintained that high quality in our commodities.
 The Pay As You Throw program has been a good start in helping people to consider their consumption habits. I think we can continue to improve on that, but I think it was a good start. The workers, when they are collecting the recyclables, leave those recyclables in the bin and that helps to educate people too as to what they can and cannot recycle. And it also protects our contamination rates.
 And Fayetteville has the highest rate of glass recycling in the U.S. And that's without Arkansas having a container deposit law. That's amazing. Fayetteville's done a great job. I'm so happy that we're looking to double the diversion rate to even 40%. I remember the conversation when we made the goal of 80%. It was more of a let's set the goal as high as we possibly can and see what we come up with. I remember that conversation and
 I think the goal of 40%, which is twice of what we have now, is not a bad thing. I think that's great. I just think we have a great program we can improve on, and that's the Curbsort program, and I want to keep moving that direction. And above all, no matter what happens, I think it's a priority to keep our recyclables clean and maintain our quality so that we protect our markets for our recyclable materials. Okay. Anybody else? Yes.
 All right, now we're going to take public comment, and this is the way this is going to work tonight. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage another council member or anybody in the audience. Now, folks, I don't want to hear no laughing, jeering, hand clapping. I want us to be orderly, all right? I know a lot of good points are going to be made, and I know how excited you might get.
 But let's stay calm, let everybody have their say. All right, and introduce yourself, and tell us where you live. Yes, my name is Kelly Mulholland, 885 North Fritz, and thank you for letting me speak. I did come to the December presentation with the Kessler Foundation and listened with great interest, and also I listened with great interest to the aldermen give their opinions. And honestly, I went home very, very confused
 Mainly because some of the people that I very much respect as environmentalists and very looking out for our sustainable dynamics in Fayetteville were speaking so passionately for single stream. And so I went home and did my own research and my own homework. And what I found is it's real easy to look on the Internet and find...
 a single stream system that is not performing up to its expectations. And I found it almost impossible to find anything that was for making single stream seem like a good move forward. And so I continue to be very confused as to why there's so much support for this idea. As far as worker safety goes,
 I would of course is concerned with that myself although I do want to point out that there's lots of people that work in the cold in the morning in other occupations as well. This is not really unique but the quickest way to reduce the chance of an accident would be to have another truck so that everybody could slow down a little bit. That would obviously be.
 i mean i watch these guys do it in front of my house it's amazing how quickly it's like a ballet and it could be slowed down a little bit and probably be a safer operation i think it's i it's music to my ears to hear the city representatives here speaking it sounds like they're on the right track and take great pride in what they've already been doing um i i
 I think that it's really important that at this point maybe we should congratulate a citizen in Fayetteville who has worked tirelessly on this issue for many months. And of course that is Louise Mann. And she has done a great job of educating the citizens, including myself, bringing the points to bear and helping me do my own research to find out, make my own decision about this.
 I think if there's any one thing that the Kessler report failed on is it doesn't have enough confidence in our Community to do the right thing. I know personally that I take great pride in my recycling behavior. I have two bins I Am very I take my read my this my hazardous waste I take it down south where it's supposed to go I try to do it right and and I think I'm not alone in this and I think I
 Creating a system that assumes that we're incompetent is not a good way to go. So I'm really pleased with what I'm hearing from most everybody in the room, and I'm pleased that we're considering leaving the single stream aspect out of the Kessler recommendations. There's, of course, some very good aspects to the Kessler recommendation, including the organics, that we are going to embrace. So...
 Congratulations on that. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who would like to be next? Please come up to the microphone if you'd like to speak.
 Hello, my name is Grant James. I work at the Office for Sustainability at the University of Arkansas, but I'd like to provide a disclaimer that I'm simply representing my own opinions and not their own. My address is 1072 South Sports Fan. So I have been tasked with studying the University of Arkansas zero waste goal, and ours is a little more aggressive. It is 2021, and it's 90%. So I definitely sympathize with 80% being a little bit out of our, out of our
 Reach I guess you could say but so for me the debate over single stream versus curbside Recycling system very clearly boils down to a trade-off between contamination and participation any argument That's being made that we hear Essentially boils down to comparing between these two two trade-offs Clear the air is certainly true that switching to a single seam excuse me single stream system would definitely increase contamination and
 However, I'd like to break this down a little more clearly. First, if the main intention of a recycling infrastructure were to simply have the lowest contamination rate, then the system would be restricted to only the most obedient recyclers, and anyone who contaminated once would be barred from ever recycling again. Obviously, this is an absurd way to approach our recycling system, so it's about a reasonable trade-off between the two.
 I'm advocating that the increase in participation that the program would see would create a materials volume that is greater than the increase in the contamination rate. By allowing more people to recycle, it allows more materials to be recycled, even if it increases the percentage of those materials that are being contaminated.
 Secondly, those well-intentioned citizens that are arguing for a status quo system are overlooking the fact that those contaminated materials would also still end up in the landfill, regardless of what recycling system we adopt. I am suggesting that the opportunity for those materials to potentially be recycled by entering the single stream system is better than those materials being entered into, like doomed for landfill no matter what.
 Adopting a single stream system is the only feasible way that Fayetteville can make a significant progress towards its 2025 goal, as proven by the Kessler Consulting Report. Additionally, a single stream system is the only practical way to allow businesses that produce large volumes of waste with convenience and scalability.
 So, you know, you bring up a great point that students represent about a quarter of Fayetteville's population and that there's an incredibly high turnover rate and the university seemingly has also a difficult time trying to, you know, bring them up to speed on the recycling system there. And it's certainly true that having a single stream system in Fayetteville would allow students to recycle with more ease.
 And with that, I would encourage us to take a step forward and examine single stream. Thank you. All right. Thank you. All right. Who would like to address us next? Good evening. My name is John Kester. I live at 3037 North Azure Avenue in Fayetteville. And I'm thinking that when it's 10 degrees, you wear a jacket and gloves. If it's 110, you wear a T-shirt and a hat.
 Firemen die every day, policemen die every day. I don't think the recycling people die that often and they are capable of reading the job description. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Please queue up at the mic. I'm from Madison County so I don't vote here. But I. Well I'm from Madison County and I do.
 But I'm one of the minds that hatched the recycling program we have in Madison County in 1980. I've been doing this for a long time.
 I really want to compliment Fayetteville. I'm just so impressed. That's number one. I want to compliment you on having open mind to look at this thing and not just take what industry tells you to do. And second, I'm very impressed with your glass program. I think whatever you decide to do, you need to stick with the way you're dealing with glass. And the last thing I would like to remind people, diverting is not recycling. Recycling is when
 The material is produced into a new material. When it is taken into production to a new material, then it is recycled. Diverting it, that's just the beginning. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Folks, you don't need to raise your hand. You just need to start lining up at the microphone. Hi, I'm Lauren Hawkins, 1101 South Duncan, and...
 There are lots of things to applaud Fayetteville City for. I'm assuming that when you were discussing most of the offices in Fayetteville have recycling, you were discussing city offices. Okay. Because that's a huge problem. Single stream isn't going to address that. And dang if I'm missing the point of what I understand the definition of recycling to be.
 as we're just considering it here and now with the with the even notion of single stream which is pha recycling which is diverting making folks feel like they're recycling things and sending it to the landfill I I was taught by example in the kitchen in classrooms that I grew up in
 That's how understanding of responsibility and efforts to steward our planet are incubated. Resource management is taught, understood, and shared through education and example in every household, in every park, in every schoolroom and gathering place. Yeah, times have changed and livelihoods are all consuming and demanding.
 and dang, now Mother Earth is being buried in our throwaway castoffs. The addition of construction and compost materials is exciting and commendable. I do implore our city council to consider the implementation of perhaps dual stream. Dual stream is a reasonable compromise to the quick and easy and dirty
 For recycling of single stream you can have rollout bins your paper doesn't get contaminated the the section you don't have people sorting at the curb the section of Everything else would have to be sorted in a facility which would not be as contaminated as single stream with honest results and
 When thinking about investment into a high dollar commercial outfit for sorting, consider education as we have and today I can see it's not, it's more driven by the kids. The education in the school go home to the parents.
 Dual stream rollout bins would be an advantage to the carryout bins. I admit I'm getting older. I would like that. And it would be no person would be out there lifting those bins. Really hope that you will keep FFL on the right track of honest accountability with the quality of recycling. Thanks. Chair Greg Musil.
 Good evening. I'm Carol Christoffel, also known as Chris Christoffel. Back in 1965, I was on a Coast Guard cutter down in Houston, and I was down there for a tour of the Houston Bay or whatever they call that, and I was in heels and hose, and the water was so polluted that it literally ate the hose off my legs, and that got my attention about pollution, and so that's where I'm
 I started my whole track of being concerned about pollution and about recycling and doing the right thing. Before I came to live in Fayetteville here about three years ago, I lived out on Beaver Lake for about 30 years. But faithfully every week I'd bring my recycling into Fayetteville to put in the containers down there on the corner.
 because it was the right thing to do, not because somebody told me I should do it or whatever. It was just the right thing to do, it was being a good neighbor. I have a lot of faith in the students. You know, they're coming here to the university, they aren't kids anymore, they're adults. And I think that there are people that can be influenced to do the right thing. I talked to my cousin this weekend, I have a lot of faith in him also, though I've done a lot of research over trying to understand single stream and recycling.
 He was a newspaper reporter. He's done a lot of investigative reporting and I asked his opinion on it. And he was with me. You know, single stream is really not recycling. It's just a feel-good thing to do. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Don Bennett. I'm a 36-year resident of Fayetteville and I live at 1231 Dean Street and I love this city.
 I'm also the executive director at Tri-Cycle Farms. And what I'd like to share with you is what we've been doing for about three years. So three years ago, we started a composting program with only O&F, Ozark Natural Foods.
 And in 2015, we recovered a total of 11,396 pounds of food and distributed and shared 3,800 because we were going to build compost and yet we ended up sharing about 3,800 pounds of food because it was still good. And in 2016, we expanded that program and collected a total of 30,000 pounds of food.
 and distributed 13,400 pounds of food to, and we're averaging about 270 volunteers to work with that. And this year we decided to make a big jump.
 And with Whole Foods as a partner, we go three days a week, and we still go one day a week at O&F, and we've also included native nectar, Puritan coffee, and Onyx coffee, and those are great ingredients for compost, and we're expanding that, and in just days.
 month and a half we've picked up 15,000 pounds and Distributed shared most of it. We like to call this instead of waste Recovery its resource recovery. So we have shared 12,000 pounds food in a month and a half we've shared with seven hills Salvation Army seeds that feed food core which is impacting about six schools in our area Sunday supper life source and
 the Tricycle Farms service team that makes this happen. That's AmeriCorps VISTA and Arkansas Garden Corps and Tricycle Farms volunteers who are food insecure as well. I just wanted you to see that this is a possible solution for other organizations to be involved. For us to make this and continue to make this sustainable, what we'll be picking up is a minimum of about 60 tons this year.
 That's how broad this program has grown. I think we could potentially double it in a couple of years and make a lot of great soil, but I think the most important thing that we're doing right now is we're helping to feed a lot of people in Fayetteville. And since this program started with Whole Foods starting in the late November, we've impacted about 6,000 people in our community.
 But to make a sustainable system like this, we may need your help. We need a van. It takes three people and about 16% of their salaries to do this. We could cut that down to one with a refrigerated van, and we could actually play a role in teaching and educating about food safety, about other types of recycling in terms of creating soil, composting,
 So I just wanted to share that with you and ask you to consider helping programs like this that helps other organizations in our community that need it. Thank you. Thank you, Doc.
 My name is Justin Taylor. I work for the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District. And first, I just want to thank everyone here for doing such a great job. I talk to a lot of people about recycling and about waste reduction. And the thing that I hear over and over from people from Little Rock, from different regions, is that
 Fayetteville is a leader. And to me, that gives me inspiration to keep doing what I'm doing. And I think that's important. And a few years ago, when I started working in solid waste and recycling,
 It was really difficult to keep the notion out of my mind when I asked myself the question, why don't people recycle or why don't they reuse or why don't they do this? It was really difficult for me not to make a quick judgment and say, oh, well, they're lazy or they lack the knowledge needed to complete that action. And for a lot of years, I think that was sort of my guiding belief about what was going on. But a few years ago, Brian and I attended a workshop
 Denver and Doug McKenzie Moore was the person that gave that workshop and he really gave me chance to experience a shift in the way I thought about what is happening out there I've been involved in environmental education since I was probably 18 in some form or fashion and what Doug showed me was that
 It's not necessarily that it comes down to someone just isn't motivated or they're not educated, but that there are barriers in the way preventing us from doing what it is that we may even want to do. And I want to throw out an example today because this popped into my mind a week ago. Research tells us that riding a bicycle to work is good for your health, and it's also good at reducing emissions. I think we can probably all agree on that.
 Now my question is, how many people in this room are going to ride their bicycle to work tomorrow? Not many, I think is probably the answer. And I think the reasons that we would give to that would be, one, it doesn't make practical sense.
 the road system's not set up in a way for me to do it. I live out on Weddington, and I would be afraid to get hit by a car if I were riding into work on my bike. It would take me too much time. It's not in a convenient location. So back to what this body of research tells us.
 we want people to perform a certain action if we want them to recycle if we want them to Go to the doctor even because health actually works the same way based on what this body of research says we have to remove these bears barriers systematically and we have to identify them and the city is doing that by Providing composting by talking about a construction and demolition plan but
 When you start looking at the research on single stream and dual stream and all these different programs, there's a lot of information out there. And the difficult thing is to sort through that information and find basically what I call is the metadata. And by metadata, I mean here's the whole United States, what works, what creates the highest level of diversions.
 And what I found in my research is that, and I think if you've delved into it, you will have found the same thing, the highest diversion rates are all on the West Coast. They're in a handful of cities in California and Seattle and Portland. And there's basically a recipe of items that they use to achieve that diversion rate. And I've actually talked to some of the people that run the programs and work with these cities out there and...
 Single stream is one of those things that they use. There's a lot of reasons why I, as an educator, do understand that people putting things into one container, some people have this notion that it detracts from the education value. But back to education, education is a very deep and long process. You cannot achieve a comprehensive level of education by simply placing one item into a container.
 I talk to kids all the time at schools, and I talk to adults, and it takes a long time to truly explain recycling to people. What we're trying to do is we're trying to remove one of the biggest barriers that we have that's keeping us from getting thousands of tons of material from one place to the next place. And I don't want to go into the numbers and the actual pieces that those cities use, but I really...
 If you're looking at the research and you're looking at where Fayetteville moves forward, I think it's important not to reinvent the wheel. I think it's important to look at the places that have already...
 gone above and beyond and see how in a customized way we can do the same thing. But I really appreciate everything everyone's done and I think 40% is a great goal and I hope that in the future we'll continue to sort of take a broad look at all the research and help us, help that guide us forward into where we're going. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 One thing that Justin didn't say is he was working for the city of Fayetteville. He was under contract with Boston Mountain. He was our part-time educator up until the end of last year.
 So I think we all owe Justin some support because he's the one that's been mainly going out and talking to these kids, talking to these adults, trying to change their minds and behaviors and to get them recycled more. This year we have a new educator, Rachel Krause. She's started full board and is doing a great job as well. So I just wanted to make that point clear. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you for talking about these really important issues. My name is Sarah Gossman. I'm at 112 West Maple Street. I think I'd like to start out by saying that I think the priorities that you are voting on in this motion are great. And I think they're going to do a lot of good. And I very much hope they will increase our recycling rate.
 But I think I'd also encourage you to keep single stream at least on the table, particularly if we can't make progress on things like multifamily housing. So one of the things I wanted to share with you is a 2016 state of curbside recycling report, which came out just recently. It's by the National Recycling Partnership and EPA.
 And the report says that of the 465 communities analyzed, 82% of those curbside collected cities have single stream. And of the top performing communities, which goes to I think the previous speaker, 96% have single stream collection and 83% collecting carts. And the study concludes that
 There isn't a magic bullet to dealing with recycling issues, but it does come down to carts, single stream, automatic service, community support. We have the latter two, but we don't have the first two. I recognize that there are issues with contamination with single stream, and I think they are significant. I think they should be dealt with at the stage when there are proposals in front of the city from specific companies.
 Guess I'd say finally that you know, I'm really proud that we are in what what the US News and World Report top five cities I think this is an amazing thing I don't know exactly how they came up with those numbers, but I think that's great when you look at community certainly take them though Yeah, well, I'll take it. I'll take it. No, it's terrific But when you look at communities like Austin or Denver or San Jose I mean other communities that were now being ranked with they all use single stream and
 They'll have really successful recycling programs. So again, I recognize it's not an easy issue and I don't think there's an easy environmental answer here, but I think it's worth keeping single stream at least on the table. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 hello I'm Rob Smith I work at the Northwest Arkansas Council and the first thing I should tell you is we almost never get in City government issues we've been asked many times to come talk in Rogers or Springdale and we purposely say you know that's a city issue the only component of this I really want to speak to is this idea of a regional approach Northwest Arkansas has really been good at that when the Beaver Water District was formed
 Most of you won't remember this. I don't remember this, but I actually called them today. It was Springdale that really needed water. The other cities did not. And what happened was one pipe went from the Beaver Water District to Springdale, but the other three large cities actually contributed to paying for that water plant. Fayetteville paid for four or five years right out of the chute because they wanted to be part of a regional solution.
 We have other examples that we have NACA, we have two time all regional solutions, all regional approaches. So while I can't say whether another city will eventually join you, they might. I think it's nice that Fayetteville
 could put it on the table, could create that opportunity for another community to be involved in this. Whether they'll do that in six months or ten years, I can't say. But I do see a value in that, and the council sees a value in the kind of a regional approach to all of these kinds of issues. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Very much.
 Good evening. My name is Sarah Luby and I represent Ripple Glass. We're based out of Kansas City, Missouri And we are the end market for your glass recycling So I just wanted to talk tonight We are very very proud partners of the city of Fayetteville and what you all have accomplished Just in 2016 they recycled 1,600 yeah 1,610 tons of glass
 And when you look at those numbers in the population of Fayetteville, 50% of the glass generated in Fayetteville is recycled, which is really outstanding. It is our largest recycling rate of all of the cities that we work with.
 I just want to talk a little bit about our experience with single stream materials when other materials are mixed with glass, particularly in the material recovery facilities. Because glass, obviously we all know it breaks, when the glass gets broken down in the process through the MRF, a lot of that doesn't get recycled because it is such small pieces.
 As you all have heard tonight, there is also the issue of contamination. We have a couple end users that we work with that take the glass, after the glass is brought to our plant, we ground it down into colit that gets then sent to Owens Corning, which is a fiberglass insulation company. They have very high quality standards on what we can send them in regards to contamination rates, so it's really important that we have clean glass.
 With that said, if you do decide to go single stream, I really, really urge you to keep glass out of single stream. And that really is down to the fact that we can't necessarily guarantee that we would have an end market for it. So, thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Kellen Utech. I live at 2824 North Stagecoach.
 But prior to living there, I lived at the Eco Modern Flats. And Eco Flats does a really good job as far as having separated out recycling. But I'll tell you one thing, people, college students, doesn't matter, they're kind of lazy.
 You look at the dumpsters there, and there is so many times that I saw recyclables that could have just been as, that I wholeheartedly believe if it was more of a single stream or just a one type of bucket, people probably would have engaged in it instead of spending the time to sort it out all the way along the lines. So that's just one example from my residential perspective there.
 even though, like I said, eco tries its best, making recycling as simple as possible, I think is a key to success.
 And then also just from a commercial standpoint, my company that I work for does laboratory testing. And we have a number of, and we try our best to reduce waste where possible, whether it's packaging or whether it's purchasing recyclable materials, but there are some things in our labs in which we have to use plastics three through seven. Now cities that use single stream recycling are much more likely to also accept those types of plastics.
 And I guarantee you that that would be a tremendous benefit if we try to go more towards a system that might have more of an opportunity to scale up where we can recycle more plastics. I know it's not necessarily addressed in this case, but I do see that as a positive way forward. So I do support single stream recycling. Okay. Who else?
 Good evening, my name is Corey Reynolds and I work for Specialized Real Estate Group and we manage about 750 apartments here in Fayetteville or around the region, one of which is the Eco-Modern Flats. I don't have enough education to speak whether I support single stream or not, but what I do want to encourage is a continued development of research in the multifamily recycling environment. I think about half of Fayetteville's population lives in multifamily of some sort and
 of the six complexes that are in the participating complexes in Fayetteville we manage two of those and we see great participation and so I think there's a huge market out there to get more multifamily we're talking about 50 percent of Fayetteville's population so it's a large chunk so whichever way our city decides to go I do want to encourage that we continue to push to get everybody included so that we can increase our numbers thank you for your work on this thank you
 Hi, my name is Taylor Bridges. I live in West Fork, but I'm a University of Arkansas student. I'm going to start with something that I'm sure people are sick of hearing by now. Putting an item in a recycling bin is not recycling. Until material reaches the end users and they make it into another material, we're just shuffling trash around. So should we not strive to send the end users superlative products?
 because our goal shouldn't be a percentage that betrays the simple act of putting an item into a bin, but rather a percent that reflects real recycling. Single stream does not mirror the latter. According to Susan Collins at the Container Recycling Institute, in regards to single stream, one out of every six cans recycled this way is in the wrong bale. 15% of material in PET bales is not PET. 10% of HDPE in the bales is not HDPE.
 and 18% of single stream paper sees landfill. Single stream fails to respect the prominent players in recycling, the end users. In addition, it lacks system thinking in multiple ways.
 This is because it only focuses on one aspect, collection, when recycling is a much more complex system. It fails to understand non-linear effects, those which directly affect the end users by contamination. And lastly, it accidentally reinforces undesired behaviors, those of overconsumption and careless disposal of one's waste.
 Single stream will also take money out of our local community and hand it over to garbage hauling companies Neil Selden stated at the trash class on 12 5 that when waste management convinced convinced the city of Washington to switch from their local
 program, local companies doing dual stream had to lay off 20 to 25 people. In addition to this, since glass room manufacturers could not use the glass, the DC was paying for 10% of their recycling to be used as landfill cover, which waste management profited from directly.
 In the single stream pilot, the increase of participation rate only rose from 23 to 23% from 18%. Does this number reflect the extra materials that see the landfill? I highly doubt it. The only sound, and I say that lightly, argument I've heard for single stream is that it increases participation rates. I personally find this startling because the only difference for residents is that the carts have wheels.
 So if the residents of Fayetteville need wheels to motivate them to recycle, let's keep our current recycling program that's clean, since our current contamination rate is 3%, compared to the projected 18% by the pilot, let's give them new carts. Wouldn't this be more cost-effective than buying new trucks and spending X million amount of dollars on a MRF building?
 and let's take it a step further and give them wheeled carts with different bins for different goods so that they can be separated, making it more efficient for the sorters
 And I know a counter-argument to this last idea is that we can't expect people to do more or better. But there are countless psychological studies where subjects performed based on what the practitioners alluded to be expecting from them. So maybe we've created a self-fulfilling prophecy here. Or maybe we can't expect more because we simply don't.
 When I dream of Northwest Arkansas' future, I envision us as a pure example of what it looks like to live coexistently with Mother Nature. I see us as an example in our current spotlight of what respecting and caring for the environment looks like. I see us as a model for other cities to look at and to learn from. So I ask that we set a new stage and make our own path and not adopt an outdated and inefficient system. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'll briefly go. My name is Eric Bowles. I'm the director of the Office for Sustainability at the University of Arkansas. I also am a principal partner at Paradigm Sustainability Solutions. And the following views are my own, of course. But so I think one of the main concerns is over the contamination, right? So there's concerns that the materials are so contaminated that they don't get reused. But I went down and toured the
 a single stream facility in Little Rock earlier this year or last year time flies and they were able to sell their recycled materials for the same price as
 Yeah, so we asked them a lot of questions about that. Because two years ago I felt the same way. I felt like, well, combining the containers with the papers, there's some mixing and mingling there. But they were able to sell their paper for the same prices as the city of Fayetteville was currently selling their paper.
 I thought that was really interesting. You know, the free market still thinks that it's as viable to be recycled. You know, they're willing to pay that price. So I think that's an important consideration to make. Regarding education, so that's another concern that, well, we could stay with our current system and...
 better educate, try to get more participation by promoting it, promoting it and pulling more people into the fold, but I think that that is, well, we all know that that's a significant challenge and education will still be key to a single stream system because we'll,
 because we'll want to reduce that contamination. But education will, as the Kessler Consulting Report says, I don't think increased education is going to get you to the ambitious diversion goals that the city of Fayetteville is looking at.
 And I think my last statement will just be to not let perfect be the enemy of the good. So there's lots of trade-offs on all these systems proposed, but I think that there's been a thorough process and the pilots seemed well conducted to myself and I think that it would be a shame to at this point backpedal and throw all that good research out the door. So thank you very much for listening.
 I want to say something real quickly. I was on that tour with Eric when we went down to Little Rock. And he is correct in what he's talking about with the commodity pricing, what they get in Little Rock. Because I called down there and asked them what they were getting for all the material that they recycle. On that particular spot month, checked it with what we were getting paid, and it was almost exactly the same. So I do need to make sure everybody understands that that point that he brought forward is true. Materials that we use...
 Recycling single stream systems will typically bring the same amount of revenue as what we have in our program Based on just a phone call to Little Rock and what they're what their program brain so Even though the materials contaminated they they were selling it for the same price That's just a Little Rock example, but I want people to understand that Mayor I have a question for sure
 Brian, I have a question real quick. So were the materials that they were being paid for the materials that were already sorted
 No, sir. A lot of times, I mean, at least in the industry I work in, because I buy commodities myself, when you can command that much higher of a volume like a larger city. They like to deal with volumes, yes. Yeah, because the size of the city has an impact on that as well. Yeah, so my point is just that they were getting the same prices that particular month when I called down there. They were getting the same prices that we were getting. They were doing single stream. We're doing curbsword.
 Hi, I'm Robin Reid. I'm the director of Boston Mountain Solid Waste District, and I was here last time, and I'd just like to continue to voice our support for this plan and the entire plan with its composting, the C&D recycling options, as well as the single stream. I think they're all very important components of the solid waste management, especially for a growing community such as this one. Thank you.
 Robin, I have a question for you. So if your approach for a regional MRF system, what would be the position? And you would be in favor of that? I would be in favor of it. There's a lot of great examples around the nation that have worked doing a regional approach. Okay. Andrew Miles, 1884 Caton Drive. I'm also the vice chair of the Environmental Action Committee here for the city.
 We've been discussing this issue for two years now, going back to when Kessler first started doing their sort this month, two years ago. And I've been actively involved in the participation of these efforts. Just want to voice the EAC's urging the council to vote on this, for this issue.
 And remind everyone that it's a plan for multiple issues as the previous speaker just noted not just recycling on single stream or dual stream or curbside. It's for the composting, it's for C&D, it's for a multifaceted approach. And even if a single stream approach was adopted it wouldn't be an overnight thing and there's no resolutions on the table right now.
 So the whole thing is contingent on if single stream on a state-of-the-art MRF a regional MRF as It's pointed out already and those would have a higher optical sorting capability. That's Not deniable the contamination rates were lower in our pilot than the the national average and the first gentleman who spoke from the university mentioned how the overall tonnage does offset that contamination and
 So whichever way you go in a few years when we bring this issue back up in a resolution, when single stream, if single stream does become an option, that'll be discussed then. But the other aspects of the plan, including the amendment, should go forward. And that would be my personal recommendation, not to say the EAC's. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us on this? Louise Vann, 629 Gray Avenue. Thank you.
 I see that Brian has a stack of the letters that I sent out to constituents in Ward 3. In trying to explain single-stream, Stacey and I have been round and round because the paper keeps reporting that single-stream is about a rollout cart. We can put wheels on the cart we've got, we could have a dolly, there's lots of ways we can use wheels. The single-stream situation is about a single compartment truck in which all the material is mixed together.
 On the back of this note that I sent to constituents, I listed communities burned by single-stream, and Brian's probably called several of these places. And he probably knows, with his years of experience, what I know after 30 years being in and around recycling. The end users,
 don't like single stream you've had one end user in all these meetings you've had one end user has shown up ripple glass and they've asked you to please keep the glass out of single stream I spent the past week chatting with end users including the company down in Louisiana that took the three through seven plastics every end user has the same mantra please please keep it clean
 I think it's really important, and Matthew has said this in previous meetings, it's important to know the history of a topic in order to not repeat mistakes. The history of single stream is that garbage haulers initiated it. Large companies. They put a lot of little recyclers out of business when they came in and they would do lowball bidding.
 These large garbage haulers admitted in 2015 at WasteCon, which is the waste conference that's held annually by garbage haulers, that Single Stream was a mess.
 Waste management alone, just waste management, and the guys may know what's going on with Republic and Defenball and some of the others, waste management alone has closed at least 30 facilities with no plans to reopen them. They're losing lots of money with single stream. A lot of this mess got shipped to China, which these guys know, until 2013 when the Chinese said, no more. In the business we call it the green fence.
 For those of us who started recycling programs, ran clean, honest recycling programs, stayed in contact like Marianne Orton would have with the end users, it has been gut-wrenching to watch recycling devolve into nothing more than collection of trash. I've hired an attorney. I'm talking to him about hiring an attorney out of state.
 I'm communicating with other people who know that recycling is about making a product into a new product. I'm talking to end users, and the end users are not the ones who initiated recycling. They have been pushed out, blown off, as though they don't matter. And they should be the ones that you're talking to. There are a couple of large paper companies that have gone into single string sorting.
 A friend called me, a colleague, years ago when this mess was first starting, and she was in a single stream facility, and she said, what in the world is going on? This is a filthy, nasty mess. Even when you recycle perfectly, recycling is filthy, nasty, gross business. But when she said to me, I'm in this paper facility, and they're doing single stream, what is going on? I said, they're trying to get control of the stream.
 So many communities have just turned their recycling programs over to companies, and they'll try to figure out how to clean it up later. You're not getting the whole story, and I bet there's not anybody on this council who's gone to a trade show or a conference and stood around and listened to the end users talk about the mess they've been stuck with.
 I asked an end user, I said, who's going to listen to me, a gray-headed retired garbage educator? Who cares what I've got to say? I said, you people need to speak up. Why aren't you speaking up? And I was told, we can't, Louise. If we do, our item will be pulled from the curbside programs. Last April, when Ripple Glass came down and spoke...
 Jeff, one of the co-owners, had just come back from Washington, D.C. He had been at a Glass Association meeting. The glass industry has formed an association because they are so distressed about the mess in single stream. I mean, y'all, it's just common sense. I brought this postcard tonight, and I brought a bunch of them. I want to show you. I want to inspire you.
 This is a little drop-off center, and I'm not talking about drop-offs, but everything in this picture was either made, donated, created, or maintained by volunteers. This is the center I ran out in Tennessee 100 years ago.
 It's been destroyed by single stream. It was once a place of community pride. But the point was, it was a partnership. The folks that volunteered here did the education and the city did operations. Operations is another word for moving materials around. Once the city took complete control, the place went to hell in a handbasket. The city didn't have time to do education. They had time to move materials around.
 Fayetteville has a very talented and caring population. And though this was just a community of 7,000, what is Fayetteville?
 but a city of neighborhoods and little, well, just neighborhoods. So just like any big church does different programming for different areas, if Fayetteville can get in partnership with some of our talent in town, we don't need to keep spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on psychologists and marketing firms or this or that. I mean, I want you all to look at this. This is...
 This is more precious than anything you've seen anywhere in the country. And all I did was coordinate the effort of talented people. We've got talented people here who can help get our apartments more on board, who can help get our neighborhoods more on board. In the meantime, I'm going to keep working from the legal angle because I have a great deal of respect for end users and I want to provide them with a product they can really use. Now, if Brian called folks and they said, oh, we've worked it out, it's not a problem anymore,
 Well, the Washington Post in June did one of the first exposés on single stream and they had the perfect comment where they said progressives have made things worse by trying to get bigger and bigger bins and push these participation rates and push the diversion rates.
 I wish the progressives would go get on a sort line. I wish they'd go to a conference and listen to end users. I wish they'd go to a trade show and listen to end user. Without the end users, you don't have a recycling program. And the end users are afraid to speak up, unless they're the mega companies. And if so, I guess they can get the poopy diapers out of the squashed bales and run the chemicals through to clean it up. But is that really reducing the carbon footprint?
 And this whole thing of convenience just blows my mind. I mean, is that really how we want to raise our children? Children only do those things which are convenient. Come on, y'all. Fayetteville is a whole lot better than this, and you've got so much to be proud of. You did not go off the convenience cliff with all the other sheep around the country. I've also got the legal team...
 And, Kit, I want Wes and I to come visit with you about this. We're trying to find a transparency ordinance, not a resolution, but an ordinance.
 And so y'all might be able to find it quicker, but I've had five people checking with progressive communities and other communities all around the country to find a transparency ordinance. We can't find one. So, I mean, you could talk to West about that afterwards. But if we had put a transparency ordinance in place after Fran and them fought the incinerator, if I had put a transparency ordinance in place before I left this program, Single Stream would never have gotten off the ground. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? My name is Dylan Cardwell. I live at 1250 Highbush. I was actually part of the pilot program for the carts. It made it a lot more convenient. I work really hard, so things being convenient is definitely a benefit to me. And I have two bins right now. If I fill them up completely, I'm not going to wait till the next week to put those things in the bin. I'm going to throw them away if they don't fit.
 I've had damage to landscaping before with the bins and I didn't see that with the carts at all. We also had really high winds a couple times, had bins that were blown down into some wilderness area and I had to wade through waist-high briars to go pull those out and I don't see that being an issue with the carts as well. And then also, just a caveat on the convenience part and the capacity of that,
 I've got a father-in-law that has like six bins, and he uses them. He fills them up consistently. But if he had a cart, that would make his job a lot easier. That's all I've got. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Looks like I've got a lot to say, but I'm going to cut it short. Fran Alexander, Fox Hunter Road. Thank you.
 The battle between curbside and single stream will rage on, as we all know. But the thing that bothers me the most about this discussion is that waste prevention has not been mentioned. At least, I didn't pick up on it. And that's being confused with waste management. As has been pointed out, they're not the same thing.
 The key to refusing and rejecting trash, which is really what we need to do for waste prevention, lies in caring. Caring and responsibility come from being personally affected, either by financial impact or by personal codes of civic behavior. Financial impact means we should all pay the actual, not subsidized cost of buying and throwing away trash, which is what we're doing. Personal behavior means we should all pay the...
 means that since you can't make someone care about something they don't care about, you have to find some other way to personalize this particular issue to them. So key to changing personal behaviors, in this case increasing recycling participation, is to find out what matters to people and the city folks have done a great job
 in their surveys, their door-to-door, their pilot, and finding out some of the things that matter to people. But at this point in time, I think it's important that we understand there are two, another two aspects to this. One side is the mechanics of doing something.
 And that means whether it's providing a wheeled recycling bin, and I know there are complications with the trucks and the bins, the way they're designed now. I personally think we could probably come up with a better design and have some money make them if nothing else, or we could get dollies out there. But put wheels on things. Remember how much we enjoyed it when we discovered that not only humans had come up with the wheel, but that they put it on luggage finally.
 The other side is the reasons for doing something. So you've got the mechanics for doing something and the reasons for doing something. And I would like to suggest to the city that the solutions for increasing participation, both mechanically and personally, be put directly to the public where the responsibility lies. Around 2003 or 2004, our town was faced with numerous issues concerning rapid growth and development.
 the effects they were having on the beauty and quality of life in Fayetteville. At that time the city had hired Dover Coal consultants to help us with city planning and the one avenue of finding out what people wanted for the town that was most effective I believe were charrettes and charrettes are meetings which
 in which stakeholders in a project attempt to resolve conflicts and map out solutions. We would gather in the town center, we went to Bank of Fayetteville, we went to maybe the library, I can't recall all the different places where there were tables of people dealing with particular issues. We went to the senior center, remember that? And we worked on the things we wanted for Fayetteville. We need to do charrettes again focused on solid waste. Some of the most
 crucial participants need to be the residents of these apartment complexes. I do believe that it's important for us to give students not only the education of what they're doing, but to give them an opportunity to take part in solving the problems. If they don't solve them here when they're producing their own waste, they'll certainly not take that ethic back to their hometowns or wherever they wind up in life. So
 Please keep in mind that neither curbside, nor single stream, nor technology will slow or stop the ever-increasing creation of waste. That can only be done when consumers reject the waste. And our job as residents is seeking solutions to make it clear to non-recyclers in our midst what the real cost and consequences are of filling up the landfill.
 Fayetteville is in the top five cities in the U.S. We're in a position to lead other cities with what we do and how we do it, not follow other cities, but lead them, and to teach the college students who live here what personal responsibility looks like. Let's not blow this unique position. What citizens have done to solve issues in Fayetteville before are the reason we are where we are in this fifth position ranking in the nation.
 Let's keep it clean. And I wanted to read you a quote from a man who is an associate professor of environmental psychology, since we've brought up psychology tonight several times, at the University of Michigan. He's in the School of Natural Resources and Environment. The sense of being needed, of having a chance to influence how things are decided, are not luxuries.
 but necessary parts of our psychological well-being. I think we can trust our citizens with taking part and working out the solution of the things that they are personally responsible for. And I do want to say to Sarah that all of us worry about the workers, extremely worry about the workers, but you really do need to go spend a few days on the sorting line and a MRF. It's pretty grueling there too, whether it's weather or not, so...
 anyway thank you all right who else would like to address this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council well let's get started matthew yeah just have a quick question you know keep my powder dry for um the rest of it for later a question for staff and maybe you the mayor as well um with uh
 If we amend to this resolution that's proposed with the new implementation plan and then the other cities or the solid waste districts in the region approach us and they say, look, we're putting out a request for information. Will you participate? Will you help us scope it? Will you help us make a selection if we get to that stage? Is our answer going to be yes or no if we adopt the resolution that's being answered? The answer would be yes. Okay. Thank you.
 Who else? Nobody's got nothing else. All right, Adele. Thank you, Mayor. Well, this is another very tough issue that we're having to deal with, but I have to say that I completely agree with my Ward 1 partner, Sarah Marsh, and all the folks who've spoken tonight in favor of recycling.
 I'd be very disappointed to give that up. And so I was very happy to hear Alderman Petty ask the mayor if we would consider if it were put to us by the other area cities. Yes.
 But, you know, I'd like to be the leader. I think the state, as you all know, the state depends on us to be the leader. So it disappoints me to set aside recycling. And someone said, well, we can take baby steps. Well, I think to move to 40% is...
 It's not a baby step. It's maybe a teenage step. And I would be, I will, you know, if that's the way the vote goes, I'll be perfectly happy. But, I mean, I'll be happy. But I would still like to see us move to the single stream and be the leader.
 And, you know, someone said tonight they didn't see why we talked about reinventing the wheel. And I kind of agree with that. You know, we paid a lot of money for our study.
 And we also had an excellently ran pilot program, both of which told us that single stream was the way we need to go. When we look at all the cities in the nation that have the highest diversion rate, they're all using single stream.
 So I know we need to be very concerned about the end user. I understand that, and I respect that, and I appreciate all of the other attitudes. Like I say, I feel that, you know, we don't need to necessarily go the easy route. That's not Fayetteville's.
 plan we usually go for what is is hard but is the leadership position so I would like to see us go with single stream but I do think that the 40% is a a good step a good big step thank you
 The other Sarah, yeah. Sorry. That's fine. Sorry. I have the same problem Jeff has with my voice tonight, I think. I agree with a lot of the comments that have been made this evening from some of the public and my fellow council members. I like Adela's comments about we like to be the leader in this area in what happens in shaping our area.
 I think without a processor at this time, I am comfortable with this resolution and setting, but with the idea that we keep single stream in the back of our mind and keep it on the table there. I think this is a compromise I can live with. It increases the rate from 18 percent to 40 percent. I can live with that.
 It's not a perfect compromise, though, because I think it leaves a lot to be desired when we're talking about apartments. When you deal with just 24 units and they have to be, I believe, with a street frontage so that the guy can get in there and pick everything up, I think that's not the best situation. But I'm okay with this resolution with the idea that we go back and maybe revisit single stream.
 in the future and as a possibility for our whole region, not just Fayetteville. Thank you. Thanks, Chair. All right, Mark. I want to direct us back to what we're talking about and what's on the floor. I want to emphasize that this doesn't preclude any other type of investigation in the future, and I want to talk about the business at hand.
 We are approaching a time where we have to look at a rate study, and I'm looking at this from the solid waste management point of view and the committee point of view as an enterprise fund that has to support what we do. This is an enterprise fund. What you pay for the solid waste...
 on your bill has to cover our operations. And so the reason I think that we have a good compromise in front of us right now is it takes us to the next step so we can then implement the initial activity towards a realistic rate study. Currently, it's no secret, we spend more on our operations for our solid waste management than we bring in.
 So there's going to have to be some real adjustments based on real numbers, and that's the value of having real data from Fayetteville at this time. So I encourage moving forward with the amended resolution that I have suggested because I think that it allows us to take the next step forward.
 This in no way precludes any advances in technology, any advances in ideas. It doesn't close the door for any creative ideas. I was talking with Fran on the phone recently, and I said, I'm all ears. Everyone keeps saying, we're creative, we've got a community. Well, give us the information. We certainly have the capacity, on your elected officials, to take everything and look at it as a whole.
 we do have real data that shows that there was a very strong acceptance and preference for single stream. But we also take in value empirical data that shows that it's not perfect. Balancing the real data with a well-designed study, that's all that Kessler did. They said if you do this, then you get this, we are moving forward.
 So if we do this as amended, we'll move forward to the 40%, and we'll be able to look at the cost associated with that without having to be sidetracked with a very small part of this total study, which is do we do curbside or do we do single stream? Do we do curbside or do we do single stream? That is such a small part of this total study
 look at how we're going to manage the next step of our solid waste management that I want us to look at this in a comprehensive way, accept the amended motion that is on the floor right now, that way we can move to our rate study, but we're not precluding anything as we've never precluded anything in the future.
 But I do think that there was a lot of valuable information that came from those that gave us empirical data that said there are problems with single stream. But that doesn't invalidate the data that we have that was collected locally that showed there was a preference for single stream.
 What we have to look at here and on our city council is balancing both of these are valuable, both of these are relevant, and I think that we've come up with a good compromise where we can take the next step, and I was very pleased to offer this compromise, and then we can continue the discussion on how to manage that very small sliver of the total solid waste management problem
 in the best way possible with the creative genius that we have here in Fayetteville and work cooperatively. What I've seen is a really divisive arguments in our community and being divided is certainly not going to take us to the next step as we look at how to manage single stream or curbside. We've got to be united and look at solutions
 that will offer the best of both worlds and I really feel confident that we can do that. I do think it's going to take a regional approach. There's certainly no way Fayetteville from my point of view, and I'm looking at the fiscal cost, there's no way that we can afford right now to have a MRF. In fact, I
 by expanding the curbside, there's going to be an increase in the cost of managing the recycling activity in Fayetteville. So we probably are looking, how are we going to pay for that? We've got to have more personnel. We've got to have more trucks. But it's the right thing to do, and we certainly will do that as a city. So I urge us to go ahead and
 I'll take seriously and to approve this amendment as a valid compromise and realizing that we can always move forward in the future with other options if they become available. Thanks. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Well, I think that the compromise put forth by staff and the Water Sewer Committee has a lot of great things to it. And I really appreciate the point that we want to move forward with the organics.
 with the composting but i would really like to see us place a special emphasis on food recovery uh towards hunger relief i think if in anything that should be the first step is taking out that that usable food and distributing it in our community and i think that needs to be priority number one um and with the increase in development and construction that we're seeing it is absolutely imperative that we move forward with the construction and demolition waste recycling um
 I used to manage construction waste in Seattle and we would regularly get over 95% Diversion rates from our construction site because there was that municipal infrastructure in place. And yes, I have toward plenty of Murph's and
 I feel like with the impending purchase of more recycling infrastructure in terms of trucks and equipment and further diversifying services, I feel like it's a mistake to not be moving forward with single stream at this time. And I'm disappointed that we're watering down our diversion goal to 40%. Again, I really want Fayetteville to be a leader and not just...
 you know, another recycling entity. But I also wanted to point out that this isn't a recycling plan. This is a solid waste reduction, diversion, and recycling master plan. And the goal is to reduce waste, to keep resources out of our landfill, and to recycle into usable products. So we have a three-pronged approach.
 As a policymaker, I always try to take a triple bottom line approach to my decision making.
 Sustainability in the environment is one of those important prongs, but also is our human capital. And the impact that this has on our workforce and the message it sends to people who are less able in our community to pull their recycling bins out or maybe can't afford to live in single family houses. You know, how can we truly be an inclusive community in allowing everyone to recycle?
 And then also our financial capital and what these things are going to cost. And we're looking at some significant outlays for equipment to support a system that is not growing with our city and is not doing the things that we need for it to do. So...
 I'm still trying to make up my mind on whether or not I'll vote for the amendment I think there's a lot of good things in it and it doesn't preclude us moving forward with the whole plan But I do think it's a mistake not to adopt the whole plan this evening Okay, no
 Yes, counsel. I wanted to make a couple of comments from the staff perspective and the study that you paid for. And I guess the first thing I want to say is that we think the study has been valuable. And valuable in the sense that is our goal realistic? I think what we learned from it is that our 80 percent striving goal needs, think about it like taking a trip down a railroad track and we need to go from pole to pole rather than thinking about the city we're starting in and the city we want to end at.
 This is a stair-step approach that any movement or improvement that we see from the resolution the council passed moving towards a higher goal is a positive step from where we were. That, I think, provided value. The second was processing.
 Whether it's the city of Fayetteville processing or regional processing, it doesn't exist today at the scale to support the capital expenditure necessary to have a single stream processing facility. And the report is very clear, very clear that Fayetteville alone with its volume cannot support one long term in a financially sustainable way. It requires partnerships.
 The negotiation of working with Bentonville, Springdale, Rogers, and Siloam Springs combined volumes are needed to support financially a capital expenditure of a processing center necessary to have the type of technology and equipment that we want to deal with social worker issues in addition to clean end user supply material.
 We don't have a commitment today from Bentonville Mayor, Springdale Mayor, Rogers Mayor. We have interest in the Solom Springs City Manager. And the reality of it is that we have to go to their provider because they're all in long-term contracts. Republic, Inland, Waste Management, companies who are handling those services and processing ever how they do process the recycling that they do today.
 is who will be making the decisions if we talk about a regional solution. That has to be driven, in our opinion, by our solid waste districts who have relationships and who help and charge fees for the landfills and the education necessary to have such a program. Is it dead? I would say to you that the mayor's direction to us is let's make progress.
 And if single-stream discussion in Fayetteville on a small scale keeps us from making progress, it's not the right first move.
 We adopt plans all day long that have long-term goals in it where we take step after step to advance and move in that direction. And that's what we're doing here. The lowest hanging fruit and a very successful pilot was our composting food program. And I love hearing what Mays Farm talked about tonight because that's an avenue that wasn't as specifically spelled out. We've heard an interest from the council on that I also think goes with our food security and...
 master plan goals around that that would be beneficial.
 But the study brought value in that we have to have that regional volume. And if we do it on our own, I will say to you as your chief of staff, it is not a wise capital expenditure at our volume to build a facility for our volume alone, sustain it without rate structure impact to our rate payer, and then be sub-planned in the future if there is a regional facility built where we waste that capital.
 So, you know, is it the right time? It is, in our opinion, it is not. We also can't do all these things at one time. And the reason all of this is important is we should be doing an updated rate study today.
 And what staff is trying to say to you, that I'm going to reiterate on their behalf one more time, is that we have equipment purchases to make. We had 416 single-family residential homes permitted in 2016 that will come online as new customers. That's another truck and another driver because they do approximately 450 bins per route. Is that accurate? 350. So we're over a truck.
 And that's just with single family home purchases, not addressing these other things that we want to look at expanding in multifamily. And those decisions have to be made on a five-year rate and capital plan. We can't keep kicking this can down the road when we have service requirements coming forward to have the necessary staff and equipment to do what we do currently well. So it's time sensitive.
 So rate planning is an important part of this study. We also learned that this 80% goal, that our plan came back and said, when we hired the consultant, what can you get to, and all the things on this plan got us to 50%, of which many of you and many of the public didn't have an appetite to implement all of those recommendations to get to 50%.
 And we could get, you know, if you look at communities that are getting to 100%, they have something called waste to energy that no one in Fayetteville supports. We had a lawsuit about it many years ago incinerating trash, right? So we know that all of these options aren't necessarily going to be the option that our community ultimately wants. And so the mayor has a great saying with staff, sometimes you move incrementally and get what you can to keep advancing, and every day is a new beginning.
 improvement goal for the next time period. And that's what he has asked us to do with this. We had dialogue with Alderman Petty, Alderman Kenyon as the original sponsors of the goal because we want them to know what we heard is we don't want to stay at 19.
 and we need to incrementally improve all the time. It was the first meeting that this came about that a citizen came up and said, you know, we need to also do a better job of communicating to the citizens what our goal is because we're pretty competitive as a community. You know, we came out with a ranking of being five and the only small city, MSA, really in the ranking of that five, and the question was, well, what does it take to be one?
 And that's what we were trying to establish by setting these goals and advancing the public. We still have a huge multi-family discussion. That's where Alderman Gray, Tenet, and some of the other people who talked with us about how do we provide these services to multi-family individuals is a real challenge for us in the current method. Because take one new student housing project that had 600 rooms. That's a truck.
 for that day of pickup to just handle that one facility and think about what we permitted 11 000 multi-family student housing in this city in the last two to three years so you know we need a solution that's the silver bullet i think staff's looking at is how do we provide services and multi-family because we also have 60 percent of our residents move
 and they move from multifamily to single family, and they haven't created habits or they lost habits in the multifamily when we don't provide the service, and then we want them to get back on board when they're in single-family housing. And frankly, there's just a...
 having been an old alderman that sat in your seat, there's a fairness item of wanting our multi-family people to have the same opportunity to feel good about our environment and keep things out of our landfill. And just because they live in an apartment doesn't mean they shouldn't be able to contribute. And that's where our drop-off center, if you haven't been to it, I mean, we're getting great volume where we located it. There's a cost to put it in. It's not the total solution for it, but it's an avenue.
 So, I guess I want to say to you is time is of the essence for future capital planning and rate planning. We should be doing a rate study now. The last one was in 1992. We've been able to sustain our rates for 25 years. But capital planning, headcount planning, the kind of growth that we're seeing needs to be done. The regional, this is a regional discussion. When you talk about processing.
 And one thing that I think that all the people who have been trying to educate staff and me and other people through this process that we agree with from everything we've read, learned, looked at, toured, is that the city should not lose control of its waste stream. We should maintain control of our waste stream so we know what's in it. When we dump a truck on the transfer floor and we see how much is on that floor that could have been recycled.
 and reused. We need to know that and not give that up to someone else.
 And so I would encourage you to adopt this plan, one, for the timing of our ability to plan. And that's a five-year period. So what we're asking you to do is give us direction for this next five-year period. And if the region decides to have this discussion more quickly, there will be transition planning if the council gives us the direction to consider those policies moving forward. But we have to have some five-year increment to begin to operate.
 Who else? Any other final comments? This is just on the amendment, right? Yeah. Okay. This votes on the amendment to the resolution. Everybody good? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingin? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Runch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Now we're on the amended resolution.
 Who would like to speak first or last or not at all? Or Matthew. Matthew McCoy Thank you, Mayor. Well, I'll start off. I just want to say thank you to staff for working so hard on this. We met between this meeting and the December meeting. To have an opportunity to see your process and how you're addressing this and help a
 with this approach was an honor. And I also want to say that kind of as a foundation, I really agree with everything Don said and really express my appreciation for getting some of the nuance out on the table, because I think a lot of that is what has been missing from this discussion. You know, I'll start by,
 THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS COMMUNITY, MAYBE NOT SO MANY IN THIS ROOM, BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS COMMUNITY THAT REALLY WANTED US TO ADOPT THE PLAN WITHOUT AN AMENDMENT. I KNOW THAT THEY'RE GOING TO BE DISAPPOINTED. I THINK THERE ARE ALSO A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO DO HAPPEN TO BE IN THIS ROOM WHO WANTED US TO JUST 100 PERCENT REJECT THE IDEA OF SINGLE STREAM UNEQUIVOCALLY TONIGHT, AND THAT'S NOT HAPPENING AND YOU MAY BE DISAPPOINTED. SOMETIMES THE MIDDLE WAY IS BETTER.
 And I think that's true in this case. And what disappoints me so much about the way this has proceeded is the fact that it has been so political. I mean, the truth of the matter is tonight we're taking a huge step, a bigger step than any other city in Arkansas has ever taken, most other cities in the Midwest. Yes.
 We're absolutely being a leader in what we're doing tonight. And it's a real mistake for anybody in the community, whether you're here or you're watching at home or it's your job to write about this, to think that this is all about the controversy. Because this is such a huge win in terms of what we're doing for our citizens and doing what they want. It's a big deal to do construction and demolition materials, and it is a big deal to do composting.
 And the fact finding that's in the report is immensely useful for decision making. We should be very proud that we're making an evidence-based decision tonight and not a decision just based on the emotions that have dominated the discussion. I do want to point out some facts. Right now, we have a program that, as compared to what we've learned through this study and this pilot, that...
 Has us throwing away one pound for every three that we should be recycling when it comes to consumer recyclables Let that sink in for a second Bottom line we're throwing around throwing away one out of every three pounds of consumer recyclables That should not be going to a landfill that should at least be being offered to an end-user to be recycled one out of every three and the way that what we're being implored to do is is is is
 adopt a policy that throwing away one out of every three is the right thing to do because we need to teach people a lesson. And there's something about that argument that strikes me as very tortured.
 throw away one out of every three to teach people a lesson, or that we should throw away one out of every three pounds every year so that we can be the first call for an end user when the recycling market tanks for a year or two at a time on a cyclic basis. I don't think that's good long-term thinking.
 I hear you personally, and I think the rest of the council, that's too loud and clear that recycling happens when it gets turned into something else. Otherwise, it's just a different kind of landfill. But that doesn't mean diversion isn't important. It's still very important to try and keep everything we can out of landfills. Thank you.
 And it's wrong to conflate those two things as being at odds with one another. We can both try to reduce the amount of waste that our city generates in an absolute sense and try to keep it out of the landfill.
 As much as I would like everybody to go buy a piece, a loaf of artisan bread wrapped in paper they can reuse for their textbooks or something every year, most people are still going to go for the normal loaf that comes in, you know, a freshness plastic. I do. So we can't change all those things. There are some things we just can't control. And there are some things that we can control, or can at least almost control.
 And I say this because a lot of this, our challenges are not merely behavioral. Those are challenges. We do need to keep doing a good job and always strive to do a better job in terms of getting people to understand their role in this. But it's not just behavioral. And it's not just a behavioral solution. There are real structural issues, real structural issues.
 We talk about multifamily and we talk about multifamily that we have today. Half the citizens or so live in multifamily. And I really like that we're going to do something in the near term for people who live in small scale, multifamily buildings. You know, we need a minimum of 20,000 new housing units just to meet population growth over the next 20 years, 20,000 housing units. And with the system we have today, we can only let them recycle.
 if they are in predominantly single-family houses. So that means our choice is don't let people recycle under the current system or they go to a drop-off or something. Or we build them all in single-family so they can recycle and we lose everything that we love on the edge of our city.
 So these are looming problems. And these are textbook wicked problems. Like they're so intractable that there's no single thing that is going to get at it. And so I really think it's a mistake. And I hope nobody takes away from this conversation the idea that we're agreeing that it's behavioral in totality. Because it's just not. The facts don't bear that out.
 So I want to underscore again, this is such a huge win. And there are people probably on both sides of the issue that has dominated the discussion that are going to be disappointed tonight, but it is very wrong to be disappointed about what we're doing. This is a big, big step. What got me right with this approach was when I realized that if we were to go all in and build a local facility
 and the region started to coordinate and collaborate on this issue in future years, our own facility would be superseded. It would become superfluous. It would become the right investment at the wrong time. So I'm very optimistic that while I acknowledge these things take a long time to do when the collaboration is so complicated and involves time,
 institutions that may have different goals and different motivations, I'm very optimistic that it will happen. And that it will happen sooner than a lot of us may expect. And I want to make one last point which is this, you know, the whole premise of this, of the plan that was presented to us and the whole premise that proponents of single stream have argued is that the first systems
 And many of the systems that followed were absolutely terrible. And the ones that are continuing to be operated that were, you know, on the leading or the middle edge of this, you know, change in the markets are terrible. And the premise that we've been asked to consider truly is this.
 The premise is that the technology has gotten better, that there have been breakthroughs in the technology that make the single stream systems different than the ones that were built and that are constantly cited as examples. And I'm not here to say that the technology actually is better. I'm here to say that's the premise.
 And we heard from Kessler at the last meeting that it's getting better all the time and there's another breakthrough coming. And again, I'm totally fine with this resolution, not just because of the regional thing, but because when those breakthroughs happen, we're going to be back here and the data is going to be even more compelling. When we can do a single stream system at a comparable contamination rate, what's the rest of the argument? That we really just need to teach people a lesson?
 So, remember, tonight, it's a big win. Construction demolition is huge, compostables is huge, and the fact-finding is the right approach. I'm glad we took it, and I'm glad for the plan that we have before us right now to vote on. Okay. Any other comments from the council? Well, now that we have an amended resolution, we will take some public comment on what you think. Same rules apply.
 any public comment on the amended resolution okay i'm going to bring it back to the council any other final comments from the council well i would like to say a couple of things you know and watching this whole thing go on it was a little difficult because usually i see a good strong unified environmental community and on this issue we seem to be somewhat divided which was something new for me really was
 Now I got to tell you something, I'm just an old recycler. I just know what I've been taught. And we were always taught, don't contaminate the waste stream. And I've been taught that since I was a young man. And we started the recycling program, the really good one, in 2003. And I was really proud of that moment because I sat on this council and we passed that. And I know times change, but we go back to the way I was trained. And to be honest with you, it's a little bit more than that for me. It's...
 kind of what I do. I want to protect the environment. I want to keep it as clean as I possibly can, and I have fought for streamside protection ordinance and hillside ordinance and tree preservation and recycling, and we got into this, and at the end, toward the end, it became so controversial, and I thought at the end of the day, everybody wants the same thing, a good recycling program. We want to do what we think is right, and there's
 There's different opinions, and that's what makes this city what this city is. And I think great points have been made. And finally, when we got to it, I thought when Kessler first came in, we were looking at a regional approach to a state-of-the-art MRF facility, and that simply has not happened yet. But I did not want to wait any longer on the food compost and the construction process
 I mean, at the last city council vote, had we not tabled this, we would not even be having this discussion tonight. I want everybody to keep that in mind. So that allowed us too much to think and see what we could do. Now, do not blame the staff because the staff works for the mayor. They didn't flip on you. I directed them, and then we took it to the Water and Sewer Committee, and I want to thank the Water and Sewer Committee for their discussion on that. That was important. I wanted to know that.
 I wanted to make these steps because Matthew's right. These are huge steps. It's not like we just everything's falling apart here. The wheel's coming off. This city's moving forward in a progressive manner, I believe. Now, we're going to keep the discussions going on the regional. You heard from Rob Smith tonight. You heard from Robin tonight. We're going to keep the, I said on the Boston Solid Waste board discussion.
 We're going to be talking about a regional approach to this. Folks, it's like the homeless situation. That is a regional thing that we need to address. This recycling is a regional thing we need to address as a region. And I'm going to continue to do that. I want you to know that. All right? So on we go. We need a motion and a second for the resolution. All righty. Mark? I move that we accept the amended resolution. Adele? I second that. All righty.
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Any final comments? Sondra, would you? Oh, Mark, you have some comments? No, I just amended. OK. I'm with you. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. LeChir. Yes. Long. Yes. All right. Thank you all. All right. Does anybody want to break before we go on to the next item? All right.
 On we go. Thank you all. It's been two and a half hours. You want to have five minutes? Thank you all. We'll get there. We'll get there. Hey, Mayor, five minutes. All right. Let's take five minutes. Yeah, I need to call the meeting back to order. Moving on, moving right along to new business.
 Number one, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to make a final payment to Kessler Consulting Incorporated in the amount of $11,010 for extra work associated with the Solid Waste Reduction, Diversion, and Recycling Master Plan and to approve a budget adjustment. All right. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Still, this is a resolution to authorize or execute a payment of $11,010 to Kessler Consulting Incorporated
 For additional work, extra work, we scheduled a meeting for them to come and brief or give a summary or a presentation of the master plan to the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee. And that was outside of the scope of their scope of work. So we entered in and engaged them for that purpose. And that's what this payment is for. Okay.
 what question do you uh move that we accept written the resolution to authorize the payment alan i just had a question okay this has been the water series i still have a question um okay i do i need a second here or do we i thought i needed a second do i have a second on the sarah all right second okay all right now alan i just i just felt like 11 000 was a bit much for
 the bill that we're being presented with. I mean, to come here and arrange a meeting with the editorial board, put together a PowerPoint presentation, I do those things all day long and I don't bill $11,000 for them. So I mean, I don't think I can support this. Is there some explanation? Was there some extenuating circumstance? Well, we knew that due to the protracted nature of this consultancy almost 20, well, right at 20 months,
 it became apparent that we were going to need them to come back again for another presentation. So really that's, we ultimately then entered into and engaged them and negotiated with them. When did we know that? That was at that, that would have been, well, prior to that September meeting, September 29 meeting. But this is still not a budgeted item?
 That was the mistake was that it was not the contract was not amended. There was no contingency money. That was an oversight on my part. Chair Greg Musil Okay. Thank you. Chair Greg Musil Matthew. Trustee David Lindstrom Yeah, I just wanted to, you know, I would be dishonest if I didn't express some surprise at the bill.
 I do think in all fairness in December the council voted I think to bring them back.
 When we tabled this to talk to the Water and Sewer Committee, that was on the record, at least in terms of the discussion. And while I am surprised at the amount, I also think that paying it is the right thing to do. And so I maybe hold my nose a little bit, but I will vote for it.
 I agree with Matthew. I think we should pay. It's a responsible thing to do, but I think we should learn from this process. When we call them up and say, hey, we want you to come back, give us a price before we commit so we know what we're getting into and we know the level of commitment we're making. That's something I think that we failed to do this time. So just in the future, we need to do a better job. You're absolutely right, John. I don't disagree with you on that.
 I was going to make that point that ultimately the staff reports to me and so that is a lesson I think we have learned. We will make sure it doesn't happen again. We do our best to
 to not have that happen. In this particular case, I will say that we did audit the bill. We have hourly rates that were part of the RFP proposal process per individual for the hours that they outlined. So we did go through the bill in detail to make sure that the hourly rates matched the hours, the travel reimbursement matched the travel, the hotel stays matched the hotel. So while it is a large bill, and I agree with Alan because I had the same reaction,
 that he had when I found out about this. It is properly billed for the rate disclosed in the RFP. It's our mistake that we didn't catch that. We should have gotten this approval earlier.
 We apologize for that. Allen. And I can appreciate that. I can't vote for this because I think the city of Fayetteville is being taken advantage of because of how far along we were in the process, and they knew that they had to come back, and what other choice did we have? So that on top of my disappointment for it not being in the budget, I can't support it. But I understand if everyone else does. Okay. Any other final comments on this? Yes.
 And I will say for the record, staff works for the chief of staff, the chief of staff works for me. So at the end of the day, I'm as responsible as anybody else. I didn't catch it either. So, all right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. All right. Number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5667 for about 0.32 acres located at 1918 South Garland Avenue from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to RSF-8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Kip.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 from I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to RSF-8 residential single-family 8 units per acre. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Jeremy. Mayor and Council, this is approximately a third of an acre. It's located on the north side of Cato Springs Road, east of Garland Avenue. The property is currently zoned I-1, which is our light industrial heavy commercial zone. The request is to rezone it to RSF-8, which is a single-family zoning designation up to eight units per acre. Okay.
 there used to be a single-family house on this property however it's been zoned industrial for many many years as you can see on the maps in our packet
 With the aerial photograph, there's a number of residential uses surrounding this site. There's a single family house to the north, apartment complex to the west, single family to the south. There's also some intervening industrial properties, however. So across the street, there's an industrial warehouse type building for storage. The Head Start facility is also within this vicinity. And this is also adjacent to the location for the trail connection to the regional park that's currently under construction. So a lot of things going on in this neighborhood.
 and some development pressures that we're seeing. This request is to rezone, as I mentioned, to RSF8. Staff is supportive of that request, finding that the uses will be compatible. While there are a mixture of uses in the area, this is part of our Fiat Junction Master Plan, and we recognize that as part of the future development of this particular area.
 The Planning Commission voted 7 to 1 in favor of the request. The dissenting vote essentially was a fear that it was not dense enough in terms of residential use to support transit. We felt like this was an appropriate use for this particular location. What questions do we have? And, Council Sarah? I didn't have a question so much as just saying this is in my ward, in my neighborhood. I've not received any feedback from anyone about this property.
 did hope to see it go a little denser with its close proximity to the trail i think that would have made a lot of sense and even though there is industrial light industry in the neighborhood the small size of the slot and the proximity between two residential houses just makes that really not a good fit anymore so i'll be supporting this request and with that i move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading alan i'll second that okay uh is there any public comment on this
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property, describe in rezoning petition RZN 16-5667 for about .32 acres located at 1918 South Garland Avenue from I-1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to RSF 8 residential single family, eight units per acre. So moved. We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 16-5667 for about .32 acres located at 1918 South Garland Avenue from I-1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to RSF 8 residential single family, eight units per acre. Any final comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Simmons. Yes. Bunch. Yes. True. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, number three, an ordinance to approve vacation 16-5687 property located at 2790 North, signate place to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Kip.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the described general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Thank you, Clerk.
 Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Okay.
 Jeremy this is a request for a vacation of a part of a utility easement along skill and Road This is located almost at the city limit line in East Fayetteville The request is to accommodate the construction of a pool associated with this existing home on the property There's a very large easement right-of-way for skill and Road which most utilities are located within that there are no utilities located where this proposed easement vacation is and
 All utility companies have consented to the request, and staff is recommending approval as did the Planning Commission. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? What public comment do we have? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adela. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. March. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. In ordinance to approve the AAC 16-5687 for property located at 2790 North Signet Place, you vacate a portion of a general utility easement. I motion to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Yes.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Pinion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. LeTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to approve vacation 5688 for property located at 3300 West Grove Drive to vacate a water sewer easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described water sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a water sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as a exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition, that any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Chairman. Chairman.
 This site is located on the south side of Weddington Drive, east of Salem Road. It's where Planet Fitness is now located. This particular easement was simply a water and sewer easement that's never been utilized. It was dedicated back in the 1980s but never used for provision of any utility services. As part of the Planet Fitness project, they actually vacated a portion of easement but this was discovered in later title documents. So they're requesting simply that this easement be vacated. As I mentioned, there have been other easements and other utilities
 dedicated as part of the development project, this would simply help clean up their title. So we're recommending approval, as did the Planning Commission 7-0. Chair Greg Musil Okay. What questions do we have in the council? What public comment do we have? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? Ms. Sarah Silver I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Chair Greg Musil Adela? Ms. Sarah Silver I second that. Chair Greg Musil We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ms. Sandra Silver Gray? Ms. Sandra Silver Yes. Ms. Sandra Silver Marsh? Ms. Sandra Silver Yes.
 Yes. Senate. Yes. Batch. Yes. Chair. Yes. Long. Yes. And ordinance to vacate to approve, and ordinance to approve VAC 16-5688 for property located at 3300 West Grove Drive to vacate a water sewer easement. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5688 for property located at 3300 West Grove Drive to vacate a water sewer easement. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kenett?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number five, a resolution to amend the 2017 adopted budget by reappropriating $63,137,158 in bonded or ongoing capital projects, outstanding obligations, and grant funded items. Paul. The Arkansas statutes do not provide for multiyear funding.
 Therefore, each year, each budget is separate for that particular year and must be approved. Unfortunately, the capital programs don't coincide with a fiscal year. So each year we come across annually and ask for those uncompleted or in process capital projects that were previously approved be reauthorized or rebudgeted. That is what this...
 A particular request is for $63.1 million to be added to the budget. That will bring the budget total up to $218 million. Most of the capital here is in water and sewer, the sales tax capital program, and in the bond fund what's remaining, about $10 million. That's about 70% of this program. Again this program, all of this money has been funded.
 It's there, and this is a previous authorization from programs approved in past years. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul? Alan? No question. Just going to make a motion to pass the resolution. Okay. Sarah? Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. The crowd's kind of thinned out. Any final comments from the council? No.
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Craig. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Sanch. Yes. Lutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, the ordinance to amend...
 110.02, telecommunication franchises of the city code to include and incorporate references to competing local exchange characters and any other telecommunications providers desiring to use city street rights away.
 Whereas section 110.02 telecommunication franchises was enacted to regulate newer telecommunications providers needing to use city streets right-of-ways and should be further expanded to expressly include competing local exchange carriers which primarily provide wireless service between cell phone companies and users. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas section 1.
 At the City Council of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 110.02, Telecommunication Franchises of the Unified Development Code by enacting a new purpose section as follows. Purpose. This section is designed and intended to cover all telecommunication providers and lessees that provide any retail or wholesale telecommunication services.
 Parentheses including not only landline telephones but also data transmissions that can be ultimately received by mobile devices such as cell phones or wireless devices within the City of Fayetteville. Section 2. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arc Star hereby amends Section 110.02A, Definitions, by re-lettering it to subsection B and enacting the following introductory language, Definitions B.
 The definitions of telecommunication providers and lessees shall be broadly construed and implied pursuant to the purpose of this section and shall include competing local exchange carriers and other primarily wireless service providers utilizing low-power and relatively short right-of-way poles, unquote. Section 3. At the City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby annex the following definition of competing local exchange carrier in Section 110.02b as follows.
 Quote, competing local exchange carrier means a telecommunications provider that has received a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the Arkansas Public Service Commission under the authority of Arkansas Code Annotated Section 23-17-409 and is authorized to install equipment and operate within public streets right of way in the City of Fayetteville. Section 4, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the definition of streets in Section 110.02b as follows.
 Streets mean all Fayetteville public street and road rights-of-way and state and federal highway rights-of-way and the airspace over such facilities. A telecommunications provider or lessee's franchise agreement with the city may authorize use of other city property. Section 5.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the definition of telecommunications in section 110.02 , by enacting the following phrase at the end of the current definition, quote, whether wired or wireless, unquote.
 Section 6 at the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amend section 101 10 o 2 f 8 Location of facilities by adding the following to the end of the current subsection Quote new structure shall be designed to be camouflaged to the greatest extent possible including but not limited to use of compatible building materials and colors appropriate screening and landscaping and incorporation within street lights and
 New structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height when located in the right-of-way of residential, local, or collector streets, and shall not exceed 30 feet in height when located in the right-of-way of arterial streets as designated by the Master Street Plan.
 The City Planning Director is empowered to grant a variance through the height restriction, considering such factors as the height of other poles and structures in the vicinity, the character of the neighborhood surrounding the proposed location, the technological requirements of the company, and whether allowing the variance will reduce the number of other poles or structures in the area.
 Section 7. The City Council of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends Section 110.02.F.10, co-location, sharing of pole space, by adding the following to the end of the current section. Quote, Section 8.
 That City Council, City of Fayetteville, also hereby enacts a new section 110.02 F 14 appeals as follows subsection 14 appeals staff interpretations and actions may be appealed to the City Council by the applicant or an alderman and shall comply with the procedural requirements set forth in section 155.02 form time place of appeals which is in Chapter 155 appeals.
 And I can present as a response or explanation for this is that we have been receiving requests to consider the installation of poles and other facilities for these competing local exchange carriers. Some of them have claimed that they already have received a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity from the Public Service Commission.
 So I looked at the current ordinance that we have and not the one for cell towers, which is in a separate section and involves tires that are significantly higher and higher power than what these mini nets or these mini towers would have, and thought that it would be best to incorporate within our current ordinance
 rather than having to read a five or six page ordinance, which is what ours currently runs at. They didn't want to do that. So instead, I incorporated competing local exchange carriers into that.
 I know that we have been contacted by AT&T, who has some questions and concerns about this. I kind of expected that. This is a gray area of the law. This is kind of a new thing, these mini towers that are basically sending out only wireless signals that primarily is data, but it's data that can be captured by your phone, whether it be Internet or voice.
 And the reason I wanted to put it in with the other franchise is that it would be a level playing field. They're wanting to use our rights of way, which the cell tower companies usually don't have to. They're renting space on the ground somewhere. But they're not necessarily in our right of ways. These will be in our right of ways and be extremely close to our citizens who have to drive up and down the streets all the time.
 There was another complaint from AT&T that it was not every right of way within the city, not every public easement. No trails right of way were included in here. I intentionally did that. No alleys because alleys, there are planted alleys all over town that aren't even built, and I don't think that our neighbors or our citizens would like to see cell towers going up in their backyard just because there's a planted and unbuilt alley back there. I would much rather see them on city streets instead.
 And I also, as you can tell when I read it, I gave considerable discretion to our director of current planning to grant many variances, including the needs of the company, as well as if there are other towers or other poles that are higher. We'd like to see these located on utility poles or street light poles rather than building new poles.
 I think that that would be good not only from an aesthetic point of view, but also so they wouldn't have to tear up our infrastructure as much, putting in new poles everywhere. I don't know exactly what's going to happen here. This is a very new area of the law. I'm not an absolute expert in this area of law. I've got to tell you that. Last time we hired an expert in this area of the law was in 2000. We paid Brian Grogan about $20,000 to negotiate a new franchise agreement for us.
 And this would be at least as complicated as that, I think, because there are going to be several franchise agreements coming through with these other companies. I have hopes that I can work with AT&T like I did when they brought in the U-verse system. Again, Kathy Aker, 4-acre, was representing AT&T at the time.
 And we worked out an agreement where we had a franchise agreement with U-verse that was merely patterned after our current one that we had with Cox. And we were able to get that resolved, and that agreement is still going forward with no problem. So I'm certainly willing to work with AT&T and any other provider. And if they have various issues or questions, I'll certainly talk to them about it. I can tell you what was proposed by AT&T would be
 miniscule when it comes to any revenue for the city compared to what my proposal would be. You know, when they say it's not about the money, it's about the money. And of course my interest is protecting our citizens' rights and trying to obtain what we should for our right of way and also to treat all the companies the same. You know, mine would be treating them basically the same as most other telecommunication carriers. And so I felt like a level playing field was the best thing to do.
 but i would like to leave it on the first reading uh alderman tenant asked me to do that and i agreed that that made sense and and i'm certainly willing to talk to any of the companies that come in and discuss this with them although i can tell you i i in fact they even showed me their their proposed ordinance i'm kind of loath to accept the regulated industry's proposed ordinance from over the city um that
 I will look at it, but I don't think necessarily when they drafted up the proposed ordinance they were looking at it from our point of view. I think they were looking at it obviously from their point of view. I don't have any criticism with them doing that, but I want to look at it from our point of view. And I might accept some of their suggestions. I'll certainly look at the law, anything they want to discuss that with me. And I'll do that. I will tell you, though, that the law I don't believe is clear at this point in time.
 I don't want to be cutting edge and making law by having to go to court if possible. I'd much rather work it out with them. I hope that's what we can do. Okay. Well, what question? Sarah. Okay.
 Thank you. I just watched a utility company massacre a lot of trees adjacent to my office, several of them significantly large, healthy trees. And so one of the things that I would like to work into the consideration of approval is preservation of existing tree canopy, because the issue at stake here was short poles with droopy lines. And so they cut down all
 all the trees nearby and i get a lot of complaints from other constituents about the tree trimming to protect the power lines and so i think that that as we move forward with that that that is a condition of approval that should be left up to the consideration of staff is preserving tree canopy you know i'd love to see that uh the
 Sweat Co and Ozarks electric are regulated by the Public Service Commission and they have Basically the right to do what they want to within our within our right-of-way to protect their property We've gone through these battles before or let me tell you this is a constant thing and you know we have talked with with a EP before and Ozarks like to report to try to have them moderate what they do and
 But basically, except for discussions with them, that's about the only power we have with them, and we can't probably put within any of our ordinances.
 where they can't do what the PSC says they can do, because we just can't do that. And we might be eventually on this one. You know, there might be eventually a ruling that says we can't do anything that competing local exchange carriers, and they can do whatever they want to, but polls up every five feet. I hope that's not correct, and I'm going to do everything I can to try to not let that happen. But we are on the lowest level of government,
 And so we there are limits to what we can do. Well, I just wonder if we're exacerbating the problem by limiting the height of the poles, because I think to the casual walker, pedestrian or driver in the neighborhood, it doesn't matter if the pole is 20 feet or 40 feet. But maybe having taller poles would enable us to protect more tree canopy.
 So that's just a consideration. Dr. And that, in fact, that's one of the things that the current planner can look at in the variance provisions. Also maybe fewer poles if they're a little bit taller. These are not real high-power pole antennas on these, but I still think that if you have some taller ones it might work out better. We talked to one particular company a few months ago and talked about, well, if we could put it in this area of city land, which they don't have an absolute right to because it's not a right-of-way.
 and have a bigger poll, would that be able to eliminate more polls around the area? And that was something we were discussing with them. And we do need some sort of ordinance here, some sort of code sections to provide a framework. My thought is that if we do a fairly reasonable one, even if they don't really like it,
 that they're more likely to go ahead and submit and get their agreement with us rather than wasting time and going to court where neither they nor I know what the final result will be because this is such a new area of law. OK. Justin. Well, I certainly appreciate leaving this on the first reading. I don't work for AT&T, but I work for Verizon. But I don't work on the consumer side whatsoever. I'm truly on the enterprise side for a company in Benton County that we all know.
 and I can say that I'm able to step back from it a little bit on this because in one way I see one of the things I dislike the most about this city is some of the existing poles that we have in different places and I think it takes away from our city's beauty tremendously but at the same time I'm also on the side
 of some of the technology vendors who like verizon are spending tons of money on small cell and 5g and all these different technologies that are coming out which will accelerate technology and data by in some some cases hundreds of times
 And so there is a need sometimes for those sort of technology advances, which unfortunately sometimes come with that expansion of a network. But I can say that I do believe that there are technologies coming with the technology, which doesn't necessarily need poles attached.
 small or large so I hope that I can whether or not I can vote on this or not. I'm not sure yet, but Regardless, I want to investigate the technology side and hopefully bring that forward in the next at the next meeting if possible And some of the things that I've been able to see just to make sure that we're not at one point
 letting somebody do something that they shouldn't and harming the beauty of our city, but also I don't want to limit the technology advances in the city either because I think that's tremendously important for for everyone regardless of what company does it So I do appreciate you leaving it here I certainly agree with you this this ordinance was not done to try to keep these companies out or make it where they cannot function effectively it was Trying to see if we could regulate them so they have as little impact on our aesthetics as possible. I
 Thank you, Mayor. To add to Sarah's point, and Kit, I know you said we can't do anything within their easement because they have a total right to that, but there is a somewhat similar issue that we've had in Fayetteville with them cutting down trees in what they call prescriptive easements, which is basically where they say we need power here, so we prescribed an easement and it's been there for ten years, but we haven't literally given them the right to cut down those trees.
 I've had to work with constituents and senators. I mean, Greg Letting, David Whitaker, Ovaid Lindsey. I mean, I've gotten everyone out there that I can and actually been able to work with them. But they will just come in and cut people's trees down, and they don't have the absolute right to do it. I would love to see this include something that says that they cannot. Maybe some state law, this is a good opportunity to create if they want to challenge it. But prescriptive easements are becoming a really big problem in the city of Fayetteville with the utility companies.
 Well, by definition, a prescriptive easement is not going to be within our right of way because they already have that. And I agree with you. We've been aware of these issues where they claim a prescriptive easement, and yet they have never bought it, never paid for it. And I don't think that from a legal point of view they actually do have the right to go in there and clear lines where they have never obtained an easement. So let's put it in our ordinance and let them take us to court for it.
 On another note, if there's no further discussion on this, I think, Sarah, you indicated you wanted to maybe help me on this proposed resolution about the state law, which is I left this on your table. It says tree ordinance on it. Yes. Recently our legislature ‑‑ May I make a comment before we leave and go off the agenda item?
 I just wanted to say we actually have another expert in our city, Susan Norton, who is serving on the National League of Cities Telecommunications Committee in this micro cell.
 Small cell environment is a huge discussion topic point not only in our city But across the entire United States particularly with utility companies who are looking to put these and deploy them so they can read meters without having to have meter readers the mayor's plan to have Wi-Fi accessibility in public spaces. This is an avenue and we're also seeing in our our
 major franchise agreements with companies like Verizon, AT&T, other mobile providers. In order for our city to be available to have 5G or future networks, the requirement to be able to have this type of technology deployed in the city. So I do think it's really important that we get this right and that whatever we don't include in today, that we at least be on the
 front end of being open that if the city wants to provide public Wi-Fi in areas that might utilize some of these others that we have the ability to come back and talk with you all about that. So we do deploy those plans for public spaces. And I think ultimately
 A demographic that we got within our economic development plan is that we're a very young, millennial-oriented city where the use and impact of technology is extremely important to our citizens, and so we don't want – we have an aesthetic concern that is taking place on the national level around this topic, where many cities are wanting to have control.
 bringing forward to help us protect and at the same time make sure we do what Justin says is not limit our ability to have faster networks with more capabilities for our citizens who use so much data and technology in addition to ourselves making investments to read meters and things through the use of this type of technology without having to put
 people on a road to go actually physically read. That's where this world is headed, both not only for our water utility, but our electric utilities. Susan, do you have anything you'd like to add? Keep watching. You keep watching. And she is participating nationally in that discussion, so we do have an advantage there. Okay. I guess we're going. Sarah? I was going to actually talk about the next issue that Kit had brought up. Are we done with this? Yeah, that's right. Go ahead. We're going to table or...
 Oh, never mind. Sorry. Okay. Leave it on the first reading. And we can get little pine trees like we put on crossing. Don't notice that one. Your little girl said it was the biggest tree in town. It's the biggest tree in family. Let's go see it. All right. Anyway, enough of that.
 All right. I believe, Sarah, you have something else. Speaking of tree protection, Kit brought to my attention a disturbing piece of legislation in front of our state government right now that could impact our ability to protect trees or enact other zoning regulations.
 and development regulations to protect our community. Kit, would you like to talk about your resolution? And do I need to move? Do we put it on? I think the first thing we need to do really is for you to move, suspend the rules, place this on the agenda so we can discuss it. And this would be a resolution that requests the Arkansas General Assembly to refrain from removing the authority of local governments to resolve local issues and enact development regulations to foster improved economic growth.
 So I move we suspend the rules and place this on the agenda. We have a second. Allen? I'll second. All righty. Here we go. Kit? Oh, I guess we've got to vote, don't we? I'm getting ahead of myself. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Lutere? No. Long? Yes.
 Well, this was actually, and maybe Don wants to talk about this because I first heard this about this from Don. And so, Don, why don't you say what you were there at a committee, I think, and talking to our representatives.
 Yeah, this is a piece of legislation in Senate Bill 286. It was introduced in the Senate by actually Senator Hendren on behalf of Bart Hester. And it had to do with restricting the cities and municipalities from having ordinances that restricted the cutting of trees on private property.
 And the city of Fayetteville did testify in the initial committee with the help of Senator Uvalde Lindsey on that particular committee, which was city, county, government, local government committee. It did pass the committee on a voice vote. Susan attended and testified on behalf of the city. We were both involved.
 They're doing our city duty to defend our ordinances. It then went to the Senate floor, of which it was defeated in a vote of 12, 15, and 8. Thank you.
 eight individuals choosing not to vote. The reason this is important is because we currently have our tree preservation ordinance, our streamside protection ordinance, and our hillside protection ordinance, which all have certain restrictions as it relates to the removal of trees by city ordinance in those particular items during the development process.
 Much of the conversation that was talked about at the committee which led towards an individual property owner Maybe not being able to cut a tree on their property is currently an item that is exempt under our tree preservation ordinance so that doesn't come into play in Fayetteville's ordinance anyway the example that was being used because of
 once the subdivision is permitted and platted. In fact, the criticism from our environmental community is that an individual homeowner can come in then and cut every tree they want to down, which is what we're giving that right to property owners who don't like trees to be able to do so, with the exception in Hillside or in Streamside. And so...
 We did speak to that issue. The bigger issue and I think is a local control issue where the Municipal League has testified quite extensively about cities ability to create ordinances and laws around development.
 ordinances just like this, and I think that's why we got support on a wider state level from cities on the east and southern parts of Arkansas, because they might have ordinances that restrict things in development that if you go and attack one ordinance because someone had a piece of property that they wanted to develop that were prohibited from having a tree cut, then what's the next ordinance as it relates to development?
 I will say that this is, while we were the discussion topic in the committee, the City of Fayetteville with our three ordinances, we are not the only city that was opposing
 Of course, we were representing the mayor as our chief executive officer and his position on this. And I think the discussion was whether the city council wanted to take a voice as a majority. It obviously just gives us more talking points when we're in front of the legislators. Thank you.
 And at the agenda session, I did talk a little bit about this, and several members of the City Council were there and did encourage me to go ahead and write this resolution, so that's why I did.
 It is basically, as Don said, not only protect our tree ordinance, which has been in effect and have been effective in Fayetteville for over a quarter century, and I think has actually helped our economic growth and the quality of life of our citizens, and one reason why we're the only city in Arkansas that is ranked number five in the nation, and I think that
 It has helped our land values and property values. And as Don said, as a private homeowner, I've cut down trees on my property, and no one's ever come out and said, I can't do it because I have a right to do it. It's only when you have large commercial developments or large preliminary plants where you're building an entire neighborhood, then the original developer can't be cutting down the trees. But once the homeowner or even a duplex owner,
 Once that's been there, then, you know, it's up to the property owner to decide that. And I think that is the right thing to do. I mean, I think we would go too far if we wouldn't let private homeowners decide whether they wanted a tree or not. But we have chosen the middle ground and not an extreme ground. And here the legislature, at least this particular legislator, would like to take that power away from our citizens to control their own destiny. And, you know, they...
 To me, that's big government coming down and leaning on Fayetteville citizens. And and so I don't like that. And that's one reason I drafted this up. I agree with the mayor and Don. And now we've got to see if the City Council agrees.
 I did mean to add one other thing, Mayor, and that is that we did remind the committee when this was before them that the Fayetteville tree preservation ordinance actually generated from a lawsuit from citizens of Fayetteville to put it in place and was not passed by the council alone prior to the League of Women Voters suing the city over our tree ordinance. So there was some discussion about that being led by our actual citizenry. Okay. John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You know, when we were having our discussion about recycling, we talked about our citizens that are very good about recycling. They want it. We can depend on them to do the right thing when it comes to recycling. Why do we suppose those same citizens would not do the right thing when it comes to planting trees? I love trees. I plant trees. And I'm a rank conservative. But we view them as private property. And...
 When we have an ordinance, and I'm very gratified to learn tonight, Kit, that once the neighborhood or once the subdivision is established, then we can cut trees at our discretion. That's good. But this city council gave us that discretion. This city council can take away that discretion. Perhaps a state law would better protect us so that it would take that out of our jurisdiction. Okay.
 And I know I'm talking the opposite, and Kit's going to point this out in a minute probably, that usually I'd be talking in favor of smaller government and less regulation. Here I'm talking in favor of regulation. So it's a little bit inconsistent, you understand, and I understand that. But please understand, we feel, those of us who are conservative in favor feel like we're very much the minority, and we are. And, you know, our founding fathers were very concerned about the tyranny of the majority. That's why we have guarantees in the Constitution.
 so that the majority can't impose its will on the minority. And this state law may help us reach a better balance. And if we already have the freedom to cut down trees once our subdivisions are established, then what would the state law change if it still gives us that same freedom?
 So I don't see the necessity to oppose the state law. I'd rather leave it up to the state legislators. And they're conservative. It's a Republican legislature. They're against big government also. So it may not pass. So I won't be supporting the resolution, as you might understand. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Okay. Allen. Well, I just find it interesting that this particular legislature has targeted many of Fayetteville ordinances and that this particular person in the Arkansas legislature has said how much he does appreciate local government, except that must mean only when it doesn't favor what he believes in. So, I'm going to make the motion to pass the resolution. Okay. We have a Sarah Munch.
 I'm sorry about that. Okay. It's all right. I was going to talk about it. Okay. So we have a motion to second pass resolution. What discussion do we have on the resolution? Any other comments? I do just want to clear one fact.
 That particular law would restrict us from having our ordinances in the development aspect, not just for the individual private property owner. That is why we are opposing it. It's our job to defend the ordinances that are passed by the council.
 Sarah. I just wanted to point out that because our ordinance just applies to large-scale developments, this isn't a homeowner going and cutting down one tree. This is a developer coming and buying several acres above you on a hillside and cutting down a whole forest and creating issues.
 So I think this is really about large scale tree removal. And I just want to remind us that Fayetteville is a tree city USA. We're a certified wildlife habitat. You know, one of the things that people love most about our city is our beautiful environment. And this is one of the ordinances that allows us to protect that.
 especially from out-of-state developers that come in and don't share the same vision that we have for our community so I'm very thankful to dawn for bringing this to my attention for kit to writing up the resolution and I just want to encourage the citizens of Fayetteville to contact their legislators and let them know how they feel about this issue and with that I guess we have a motion a second or so thank you Matthew yeah I just wanted
 Because I think it's worth saying there is a real conservative case to be made for the ordinance that we have on the books. Milton Friedman wrote about regulation being necessary when there were effects on your
 And, you know, just like we have laws against being able to pollute however you want because of the effects that it has on your neighbors and the people that you share a community with, we have a law that prevents you from, you know, doing a wholesale removal of trees on your property. And, you know, in my opinion, it's very reasonable.
 When you look at something like a downtown property where we want things to be very dense and urban, you know, you only have to keep 10% of the tree canopy covering the site. And if it's already, you know, cleared, you don't even have to bring it up to that. And that scales down according to the intensity that we've said through our public processes we want sites to develop at.
 When you remove trees at the wholesale level, you are in effect polluting things around you. You're removing vital ecosystem services that we all rely on because the ecosystem that makes our clean air and our clean water doesn't stop at the property lines. It has a much larger boundary than that. So I do think there's a conservative case to be made and I think it's important that we remember that. It might be the best argument for what we've got.
 Any other comments? OK. Before we vote, I will say, and there's one other thing I want you to keep in mind. This would also include your streamside protection. There's any trees in that streamside protection ordinance in the past, actually. Myself and Councilmember Lewis at the time sponsored that particular legislation to this council. Now, this city has spent literally millions of dollars repairing stream sides in this city because,
 Will give you a great example of Red Oak Park over in Ward 4. I was council member over there at the time they let Unrestricted development happen along those banks It completely went from a small trickle of a stream to just something about almost as wide as this room and Probably 10 feet deep and wiped out one of our parks if you if you look at Nia Koska area, which I believe is in Ward 3 and
 They allowed the development to come right up on those streams and take out all the trees, which we had to go and do probably, I don't know, a million or two dollars worth of streamside repair over there. And it had literally got within four feet of somebody's house. Now, that was the thing that we were looking at. And I have heard from many of you council members that the number one issue that you have in this town is drainage.
 And the more we let those stream banks erode, the more issues we're going to have with drainage. It pollutes the streams and erodes the stream banks. And that's the reason why we wanted to protect the streams. Your hillside ordinance, your tree preservation, somebody can come in and buy. They're supposed to leave about, what, 20% if they buy whatever it is when they develop? They'd be gone. Anything on a hillside, be gone.
 That's why we have to protect that. That's why we have to protect these. That's why I've been against this particular legislation. And I believe that it does challenge home rule of a city. So I will be going to, you know, tomorrow we meet the executive board at the Municipal League, and they are not supporting this legislation either. And that's cities around the state. So with that, let us vote.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Dutch? Yes. Lutcher? No. Yes. All right. Thank you all. That concludes our business. One announcement to do we have. Oh, I've got one announcement. I did go down and argue the civil rights issue.
 case before the Supreme Court trying to defend the ordinance that our citizens passed and I will note that Including my salary and my travel expenses and I'm in the single digits of percentage of what our consultants Got paid to come back and talk here. So but I was very happy and honored to do it done
 several announcements mayor uh first the city begins our wilson park renovations and installations of our new playground facilities the prospect street entry drive construction designated striping for parking
 addition of curb and gutter, replacement of two existing playgrounds, installation of our new musical playground. So that section of the park is actually closed while it's under construction. So we encourage citizens to be safe and stay out of the construction area, and it will be opened soon in order for us to provide those amenities for the future.
 The second item is the public is invited to learn about invasive species and hands-on removal workshop. It's taking place at Veterans Park tomorrow, Wednesday the 22nd, between 4 and 6 p.m. It's being led by our Environmental Action Committee, the action part of their committee. So they're out there doing that and we welcome you to join them to assist in that.
 The city is also requesting proposals for public art for the Trail of Tears mural on the Jalagi Trail. Submittals can be provided by artists. I believe it is through March the 20th is the deadline. It can be a single artist or a group of artists and preference will be given to art that is of the Native American heritage. They're encouraged to apply.
 and we'd like our local artists to consider submitting for that as well our bulky waste spring cleanup dates have been set so for citizens who are trying to organize a neighborhood cleanup or just to clean up at your home you've got four dates you can target that are the city's cleanup dates saturday march the 18th saturday april the first
 That's not an April Fool's joke. Saturday, April the 15th, and the last one will be May the 6th. And those can be found on our city's new website rollout. If you have not gone to our website, go to www.fayetteville-ar.gov. You can also see it on your phone. It's much more mobile friendly. Now that's part of the redesign, so we encourage you to check that out as well.
 And then, of course, Fayetteville residents, we're warning you not to miss the upcoming spring events. Our park registrations are taking place for adult co-ed kickball, slow-pitch softball, ladies' duathlon, and our spring square-to-square bike ride registrations are all currently in process. And Alderman Gray kindly reminded me that, if I can find my note here,
 The Willow Bend groundbreaking will take place on Friday, the 24th at 1230, just after the noon hour. And we invite the council and citizens to come out for that groundbreaking as a part of the council's partnership for attainable housing. Okay. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.