I would like to call the City Council meeting on March 3rd, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Unch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, the first order of business we have tonight is the state of the city.
 i'm very excited to bring it's an honor and excitement for me to bring this state of the city we have accomplished many things in 2019 and we're going to go from what we have done to where we are going in 2020 so tonight i bring you the 2020 state of the city to the city council the city attorney
 city clerk and all federal residents. I offer you the following in the state of the city 2020. I would like to open my remarks by saying the state of our city is sound. I would also like to acknowledge that we have had an extremely challenging year. I deeply appreciate our community for offering the support we need to be steadfast and intentional in our work
 and for helping all of us through some difficult times. We are all devastated as a city as we grieve the loss of Officer Stephen Carr, but we are also hopeful because in the face of this tragedy, we saw the very best of our community. Our people came forth to lend an outpouring of support for Stephen's family, as well as the family of his fellow officers and our entire police department.
 The events surrounding this tragedy affirm our faith in each other. We also lost our longtime serving City Clerk, Sondra Smith, this year. Those two were difficult days. I would like to thank City Clerk, Kara Paxton, who came into office during this tragic time. Kara and the City Clerk's office pulled together and didn't miss a beat.
 as they perform their excellent work in making our government transparent and accessible to our people. Thank you, CARE, for your service. I also would like to thank our City Attorney, Kit Williams, and his staff for providing sound legal guidance to my office on behalf of the residents of Federal. Thank you, Kit. I would like to thank Judge Bill Story and his staff for their excellent work to ensure a superior district court and provide justice for our city.
 I want to thank the City Council for your being strong leaders and advocates for our city. I appreciate you and the work that you do. I appreciate the City Council of today and the City Council from past years for your hard work and for serving your constituents and the city with your financial stewardship and strategic leadership. I would like to thank our dedicated city staff and
 volunteers, and all our residents for your hard work and support. We are fortunate to have the most talented and hardest working staff and volunteers and the most engaged residents of any city, anywhere. And I finally want to thank our many partners, the experienced federal team, the Federal Public Library, University of Arkansas, and Federal Public Schools.
 along with many other organizations that serve our residents, promote our economy, and provide resources for people in need. Now let us take a moment to celebrate some of our 2019 awards and accomplishments. For the fourth consecutive year, we were named one of the top five best places to live by U.S. News and World Report.
 The city received three awards in the state's Trendsetter Cities program and was named Arkansas Volunteer Community of the Year at the Arkansas Municipal League. For the fourth year, we maintained our position as the top water resources utility of the future today. We remain in the best places for bikes by people for bikes.
 We received a new recognition for federal and the 15 cities where businesses booming and salaries are rising by CNBC business blog make it federal city plan 2040 received the 2019 achievement and comprehensive plan award by the American Planning Association the city's fine finance division and
 received a Certificate of Achievement in Financial Reporting and a Distinguished Budget Presentation Award from the Governmental Financial Officers Association. The Federal Parks and Recreation Department was honored with four awards at the Arkansas Parks Annual Conference. Cityscapes and Northwest Arkansas Travel Guide awarded our parks five honors.
 federal was recognized as a tree city usa community by the arbor day foundation for the 24th year the u.s conference of mayors awarded federal the mayor's climate protection awards program federal received a gold designation from the national soul smart soul smart program for making it faster easier and more affordable for homes and businesses to go solar
 We were recognized as a global leader on environmental action and transparency, achieving a place on the CDP's Cities A list. Union Cyclists International selected Federal to host the 2022 Cyclocross World Championships at the city's new Centennial Park on Millsack Mountain.
 Also at Millsap Mountain, Fayette Cross has been selected for the 43-nation Pan American Cyclocross Championships in November of this year. We look forward to welcoming the world to Fayetteville. In the months and years to come, our city always finds opportunities we can share to work together to build not only a better city, but a better world. And build we must.
 We see our region's population expanding every day. We know we have only one opportunity to build it right for generations to come. This requires attention to smart growth and the ability to envision growth with equity for all our residents. And speaking of equity for all, the public library is a place where everyone can go,
 We launched the $50 million federal public library expansion project last year, and we're going to open the doors in October of this year. You see, my friends, we must be constantly mindful that our actions today include considerations for those that come after us. We must be thoughtful.
 and generous if we are to put the needs of future generations above our own. It is our time, you see, to pay it forward. Our vision for smart growth is the foundation upon which three very important and fundamental principles depend.
 I offer to you that if we stay laser focused and strengthen these three main areas, I believe we will build our city the right way. These principles are economic vitality, climate action, and quality of life. But before we get to these principles, I would like to talk about a monumental accomplishment our community achieved that will put our city on course for the next 20 years.
 I began this speech by thanking the residents of our community for coming together to help move our city forward. And I have to say thank you again for agreeing with our vision for the future by passing the $226 million infrastructure improvement bond. The plan for this bond is our pledge to you that we will address transportation mobility,
 trail improvements for pedestrians and cycling, drainage improvements, city park improvements, job creation and economic development, city facilities improvements, the arts corridor, and a new police headquarters and three new fire stations. Phase one of the bond is underway. The City Council, this City Council,
 approved the issuance of over 142 million dollars for phase one last June. As you see, we are not just talking about the bonds. We are working on the projects that we promised the people. In fact, the Council has already approved several projects in each area, to include Design Services 4,
 $9.7 million for the police headquarters, fire stations 8 and 9, cultural arts corridor, and replacement parking. $3 million for land acquisition and design services for projects at Centennial Park, Millsack Mountain, Regional Park, Gully Park, and Lewis Park. $4.35 million spent are under contract for 10 transportation projects.
 $825,000 on trails projects underway, and $1.7 million allocated for drainage projects. So as you can see, my friends, in just a few short months, this bond is truly on the move. Rapid change and regional growth affect us all. But I am confident we have the capacity
 as a city, as a council, as an administration, to manage it well and with purpose. And now I would like to get to the three principles I mentioned earlier about economic vitality, climate action, and quality of life. Principle one, economic vitality. Our economy continues to grow with new jobs and businesses opening their doors each month. Over 420 new business licenses were issued.
 New businesses in our targeted industry sectors brought in 1,400 new jobs to Fedmo last year. We have averaged a business a day for years. With these new investments, over 1,248 building permits were issued last year, valued at over $405 million.
 Entrepreneurship and the growth of small businesses is a pillar of this city's economic development strategy. Moving forward, we will strategically place diverse workforce housing options and employment opportunities in our various growth nodes, a strategy in the city's 2040 plan.
 While we celebrate the new jobs and higher wages in certain sectors, where business is booming and salaries are rising, we know we can do better. Our highest economic priority is to foster economic inclusion for all through workforce development. And I am tremendously proud to announce tonight that in 2020, we will deliver the first City of Federal Workforce Development Plan.
 This initiative is aimed at promoting the economic mobility of our residents who need our help the most and will change the focus of our economic development efforts moving forward. The pillars of this plan are, first, the development of talent. That goes with goals aimed at poverty reduction and increased wages for people.
 with barriers to employment through accessible career pathways, such as skilled trades and technical training. Second, the retention of talent by raising the number of residents who live and work in the city, addressing pay and employment inequities, and increasing access to workforce housing. And third, the attraction of talent.
 by increasing the number of technology, professional services, and entrepreneurial jobs, and the expansion of our overall employment base with quality jobs that raise wages. Hand in hand with job growth, we need to focus on housing and redevelopment. I mentioned earlier that smart growth is the foundation upon which we are building our city.
 Staff and City Council accomplished many strategic goals this past year. We adopted the revised Comprehensive City Plan 2040. We adopted the 71B Corridor Plan and negotiated the transfer of Highway 71B to the jurisdiction of the City. The Historic District Commission
 has approved design guidelines for the Washington Willow Historic District. We removed the regulatory and administrative barriers to installation of solar energy systems. The city's growth and changes that come with it require that we take the long view.
 Accordingly, we are refocusing on the long-range planning process. Some of these projects include rezoning the section of 71B corridor with a regulating plan from North Street to Township, the 71B corridor transit plan to include coordination with transit providers, Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission, our Transportation
 and staff to determine potential partnerships and next steps. Using strategies laid out in the City Plan 2040, we will clearly define appropriate infill,
 and ensure that new structures fit in and support the character of Fayetteville's existing neighborhoods. We will develop protocols for infill construction projects that outline good neighbor best practices and ensure that construction companies and neighbors work together to mitigate construction impacts. To create more compatibility with our built environment, with help from the Council, the Planning Commission, and the people,
 We will review permitted uses, building height, mass, setbacks, and architectural design. We are looking closely at stormwater drainage and ecosystem preservation as we evaluate building type. We believe that steps will encourage more missing middle housing and reduce negative impacts on infill. With an eye toward business-friendly customer service,
 Developers will see a shorter timeline for the permitting and certificate of occupancy. We are actively participating in regional initiatives on affordable housing. As population grows, so do jobs and housing needs. We must proactively manage the growth on our city's borders. I will appoint an annexation task force to develop a formal policy
 to present to council that plans for smart and environmentally sensitive growth on our city's outer edges in and in the planning area city council asked staff to pursue a trailside development plan the project will evaluate the multi-use trail system land use zoning adjacent to trails development codes and engage the public we will align funding
 development, and planning of city infrastructure with the goals of our City Plan 2040. Historic preservation progress is ongoing at the Woolsey Farm and Homestead,
 The Porter Produce Building will see masonry repair and roof framing for the stability of that historic structure. Of utmost importance in our downtown master plan, we will promote a centralized, unified effort for marketing and physical improvements to the downtown area, one of which will be lighting enhancements at the downtown square garden. One long-term goal of our downtown development
 should be to transform all sizable surface lots to new developments that could include structured parking if necessary. These locations are opportunities for public-private partnerships for the development of liner buildings for office, commercial, and residential use. One very important redevelopment project that I believe will help transform our downtown area is our emerging cultural arts corridor.
 Federal's vision for this project is a shared place-based commitment among numerous partners to bring festival and event space, public plazas, streetscape enhancements, trail improvements, natural spaces, outdoor classrooms, green infrastructure, and streamside access. I am confident this new project will provide something for everyone.
 In a few short months, we will begin construction of a new streetscape and widening along West Avenue, a new replacement parking structure, and paths through the Fay Jones Woods across from the new Federal Public Library expansion. This newly revived urban forest and its restored streams will truly become a park for everyone to explore,
 and learn about our native species and natural ecosystems. I am thrilled that construction will begin this year and will be open to the public in 2021. Then we can begin development of the Civic Plaza. Its naming and programming is being developed by our partners at Experience Federal. We look forward to working with the newly established Regional Arts Services Organization
 under the executive leadership of Allison Esposito and the Northwest Arkansas Council as we set the course for Federal's Cultural Arts Master Plan. I'm excited that these action items for the smart growth of our city, long-term planning, and successful and critical partnerships will help us realize our revitalization goals. Principle 2 – Climate Action
 Federal is leading the way regionally and globally by expanding programs to reduce waste, increase recycling, improve alternative forms of transportation, integrate new energy systems, prioritize green infrastructure, and promote energy efficiency standards. Federal is serious about climate action and a transition to a climate-safe future.
 In response to President Trump's withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, Federal was one of the first 10 cities to join We Are Still In Agreement in 2017 and are now one of 407 cities who pledged to adopt, honor, and uphold the commitments to the goals enshrined in the Paris Agreement.
 As you know, our adopted energy action plan is a comprehensive plan focused on renewable energy and emissions reductions. We will convert all municipal facilities to 100% clean energy by 2030.
 We will reduce community-wide emissions 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050. Our solar array project in partnership with Ozarks Electric Cooperative and Today's Power, Inc. installed two solar arrays on our wastewater treatment – at our wastewater treatment plants to provide renewable energy.
 The project increased clean energy consumption by the city facilities from 16% to 72% and will save the city $6 million over the next 20 years. Beyond city operations, carbon reduction targets can be met on the streets.
 Vehicle emissions represent 30% of community emissions, so FedVille committed to building trails to within one-half mile of all residents, with a larger goal to attain 25% multimodal transportation for residents by 2030.
 Partnerships are a key to success for the city. Working with the University of Arkansas VO Ride and Experience Federal, the city is home to the first stationless bike share program in northwest Arkansas. The program has served over 100,000 rides last year.
 We worked together with Razorback Transit and Ozark Regional Transit to create more efficient routes and began offering free rides on ORT within city limits.
 We will further study commuter-oriented transit to cut back on vehicle emissions. Reducing waste pollution is a high priority for our community. We expanded recycling services to participating multifamily dwelling units for our curbside recycling program and launched a commercial composting program. The City Council also passed an ordinance banning all to-go styrofoam.
 polystyrene containers, and tonight you will see an ordinance before you to regulate single-use disposable bags. We will prioritize density to encourage residents to contribute less emissions per capita and enable them to live around smart growth nodes where jobs and services are within close proximity.
 By cutting emissions and by making low-carbon alternatives accessible and affordable to residents, FedVille demonstrates that urban areas of all shapes and sizes can lead the transition to a climate-safe future. As Soul Smart designee, more local homes and businesses will be able to obtain affordable, clean, and reliable electricity through solar.
 These actions help encourage solar companies to do business in the area, driving economic development and creating jobs. And that's not all we're doing. Other important ecosystem projects include stormwater maintenance to reduce flooding and erosion and preserve the quality of streams. Our stormwater plan will not only address existing problems but also close gaps in our storm drainage requirements for new development.
 We will improve urban forestry and habitat through native plantings and invasive plant removal with a new plan to increase the healthy tree canopy throughout the city through preservation and maintenance of mature trees, planting of new trees, and public education. We will continue stream restoration to include Tanglewood Branch Creek,
 and urban forest restoration in the Fay Jones Woods portion of the Cultural Arts Corridor. We will improve energy efficiency with lighting upgrades. A new micro-mobility plan will look at the impact of e-scooters and bicycles on vehicle miles traveled. Electric vehicle charging stations will be installed in various parking facilities.
 Our sustainable practices require that we set metrics and measure success. We will use the LEED for cities and communities global rating system for evaluating the sustainability of our city. Principle 3, quality of life. Quality of life is different for everyone and we must provide that quality with equity and inclusion.
 Every community's challenges are unique and there's no playbook to ensure success. The foundation of a healthy quality of life all begins with certainty. Certainty that our people will be safe in our community. We seek the highest quality of policing and fire protection to keep us safe from harm. The Federal Fire Department recognizes the importance of protecting life,
 property, and the environment of our residents. In 2019, they had more than 12,000 calls for service, a 2.6 increase over 2018 for the fire department. But despite the increased call volume, our fire department was able to maintain just under a five-minute response time and retain its number one ISO rating.
 In our police department, we dedicated an officer to patrol our trail system and added school resource officers to the federal public schools. Tonight, I'm pleased to report to you some of the highlights in our 2009 crime statistics. This is from 2018 and the change that we made in 2019. In 2019, overall crime was down 9%. Violent crimes were down 14%.
 mr mr me or marijuana only arrests were down 43 percent and all custodial arrests taken to the washington county jail were down 15 percent there's nothing more important for our city's future stability and our ability to keep our freedoms than the safety and security our police and fire departments provide for all of us and by all of us
 I mean every single person who resides in this city. Everyone should not only feel safe, but included and welcomed as members of our community. Two very important initiatives that speak to the heart of our city's inclusion are the I-Count Census of 2020 campaign and the Welcoming Plan. It is imperative for all our people to stand up and be counted. Both the Census Bureau and our community partners
 will be reaching out in the weeks and months to come. Census data is used to determine federal's portion of federal funding across programs in education, housing, health facilities, transportation, emergency services, food assistance, and more. Millions of dollars hang in the balance.
 of equal importance is that our count determines how many representatives each state gets in Congress and is used to redraw political district boundaries. The city's iCount campaign partners with over a dozen institutions across our community are busy with outreach programs encouraging everyone to participate. Our 2020 census count will affect
 will affect the funding of programs for the next 10 years the city's welcoming plan has focused on translation services staff training and diversity programs a virtual welcoming hub and implementing the amendment to city ordinance to allow residents who are not registered voters to serve on certain city boards and committees with the help
 Of Arkansas United, FedVille has joined Cities for Citizenship, a national initiative aimed at increasing citizenship among eligible residents. We're also working with the UR Credit Union to set up low-interest loans to pay for citizenship application and test. As I mentioned, quality of life, when seen through a lens of equity, impacts everyone differently.
 The city provides services to all residents, including those less fortunate among us. We will always seek to offer new and better resources for those in need. The Community Resources HEART program housed 45 adults and 36 children last year.
 Our transportation program provided taxi services to 126 participants and transit services to 212 participants, including elderly and disabled. Our public facilities program housed the Elizabeth Richardson Center, one of three locations in the region providing disability services and support.
 Ranger's Pantry provided more than 10,000 pounds of food for 301 pets and 142 households. Our city's parks are another way we extend valuable quality of life to all of our people across our green spaces. I'm extremely excited about the new Centennial Park at Millsack Mountains.
 Its state-of-the-art cyclocross, mountain biking, and hiking trails are unlike any other in the region. Any other in the region. This park sits atop one of Federal's most majestic mountains with a central upland wetland surrounded by wooded trails. This preserved green space will be open to the public very soon.
 I'm proud of the many other accomplishments from the past year in our parks. The Yvonne Richardson Community Center's kids programs were strengthened with the addition of a new pavilion. Artificial turf was installed on the infields at Gary Hampton for our softball and baseball programs. This turf reduces rainouts and daily maintenance and makes Fedville a more attractive destination for tournaments.
 A rowing dock was named in honor of Roy Rahm and was completed at Lake Fedville thanks to $13,000 of contributions from the Rowing Club and the Rotary Club. Urban Forestry gave away a thousand trees in October as part of the celebration of trees. And looking forward to 2020.
 Construction of a new accessible, inclusive playground and interactive fountain will begin at Gully Park. And a new Parks Master Plan will kick off this spring. As I conclude tonight, I want to tell you about the importance of our community's solidarity and standing up for what we believe in. And what we believe in is that our diversity is our strength and our source of power.
 Nobody knows this city better than our people. And we are different, yet we are one. We're always forward thinking and willing to take calculated risks. And our heritage, it is our heritage to be proud and fearless. We will face whatever challenge that may come our way and say, here we stand.
 We will continue to fight for those principles because only our people should determine the best fit for us. We act independently as a city, freeing ourselves from the conformity of others, making our choices and making our own way. My friends, as President Jimmy Carter once told us, we become not a melting pot but a beautiful mosaic.
 different people, different beliefs, different yearnings, different hopes, different dreams. And it will be through our diversity and our belief in one another that this beautiful mosaic, the city of Fedville, grows to meet the demands of our future. And my friends and council members, Fedville's future is very bright. Thank you all. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. All right. Now let me disassemble. Okay. Moving right along. The next order of business is the monthly finance report by Paul. I'll let you follow that, Paul.
 Well, I don't think I can follow that very well, Lionel, but I'll give it my best shot. Let's talk about economic viability a little bit. The sales tax for the month of December, which is period one in the 2020 financial statements, was up 7% for that month, for December that is. Beverage taxes, they were up almost 7% also. Franchise fees were up.
 Building permits were down just a little bit as were court fees. But all in all, we were up almost 5% compared to the budget that had been forecasted for the month of January. So our revenue in the general fund looks very good. This is very, very early to start talking about expenditures, and expenditures I'll talk about in case we get in any trouble in the future for this year, but it's
 At this point in time, expenditures are in line with what I had anticipated. As far as the street fund is concerned, again, the street fund revenue was up. The half cent sales tax.
 statewide that was up almost 8% this time which Is kind of correlates to what we saw with with sales tax MFT for some reason was down about 2% which I thought was interesting however total street fund revenues were up 6% so they were very strong also and
 parking fees parking fees were down a bit or excuse me the parking fees were up 1% actually but parking fines were down they were down almost 30% I guess that's a good thing for our citizens however our parking
 Funds were down just a little bit for the period. Overall, we were down about 5%. That doesn't trouble me at this point in time. Investments were pretty strong, so we made up for a lot of that. But again, parking fees were up, fines were down. That's good for the citizens. As far as HMR taxes are concerned, they were up 7%.
 Across the state it looks like most of the expenditures were up in the 67% range. So that was good for the HMR taxes. We look at water and sewer. Water and sewer services were up roughly 6% compared to last year. Now remember we have a 6% increase built into our fee structure.
 So we expect about a 3% comparative increase. However, our usage was up 3% also for the period of time. Remember, we've got a major capital program going on in water and sewer. We've got almost $50 million budgeted for this year for capital programs, and we're moving along with that.
 far as trash and recycling is concerned. We're up 7% compared to last year. Remember at this point in time last year we were on the old rate structure. We modified that rate structure mid-year to pick up the new programs. We're budgeted for about a 1.3
 Million dollar operating loss for the year, but that was anticipated in the rate structure So we're about on track where I'd expect us to be at this point in time finally airport fuel sales were up About 10% compared to last year. That's about 6% up to budget so All of our revenues at this point in time looks strong you heard 7% quite frequently there on expenditures looks very good heading into the
 to the fiscal period for 2020. However, we always have to be ready and be flexible in case we see some changes and we're prepared to do that. With that, I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Everybody good? Thank you, Paul. Now we have a, I have a walk-on tonight that came up yesterday.
 It's a resolution approving an application for a 2020 cops hiring program matching grant in the amount of $250,000 to fund two police officers for a period of four years with the
 With $312,710 matching requirements split fortunately between the city and the federal public schools, I guess we need to put this on the agenda. Yes, we need a motion to suspend the rules to place this on the agenda. Excuse me, Mayor. Unfortunately, we didn't have paper copies made, so I'm going to run and make some. OK. And Michael? We can now. Well, we still need to suspend the rules. The mayor just read you the title of the resolution, pretty self-explanatory. And we can read the body as soon as the rules are suspended.
 Okay, sir, I move that we add this to the agenda Second of motion second to add this to the agenda care. Would you please call the roll punch? Yes, Kirk? Yes, Smith. Yes Gutierrez. Yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes Yes, and mayor so the citizens as well City Council know what we're doing let me just read the very short body of this be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby approves an application for 2020 COPS hiring program matching grant in the amount of $250,000 to fund two police officers for a period of four years
 with the $312,710 matching requirement paid by the city in the amount of $86,797 and by the Fayetteville Public Schools in the amount of $225,913. Okay. Chief?
 Good afternoon or good evening, Mayor, Councilmembers. First of all, let me apologize for this coming in at the 11th hour. I apologize for that. The U.S. Department of Justice had a hard deadline of March 11th, and I just thought that this was a good opportunity to bring before you.
 Let me start by saying the police department is requesting your approval tonight to apply for the 2020 COPS Hiring Grant. If approved, we would use these funds to fund two additional school resource officers for three years at a maximum of $125,000 per officer.
 The grant would require that the two officers remain employed for an additional year, an additional budget year, and I've estimated that the total cost for the two SROs for the four-year period would be the $562,710. The local match of that would be $312,710 and would be split proportionately between the Fayetteville school systems and the City of Fayetteville.
 The City of Fayetteville's four-year share estimate is estimated to be $86,797, and that's based upon 82 days out of the year that they work directly for the city, which is 32% of the time. The Fayetteville public school share for four years is estimated to be $225,913, which comes to 178 days out of the year that they work directly for the Fayetteville school system, which is 68% of the time.
 We have received letters of support for Senator Bozeman, Senator Cotton, as well as U.S. Congressman Steve Womack and also the Fayetteville public school system as well.
 We anticipate the grant award would be announced in September of 2020. If we're able to apply for the grant and receive the grant, we would bring that back before council for approval. So with that I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Okay, what questions do we have for the Chief on this? Okay. What public comment do we have? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. I'm not certain what. Did we get the paper copies for the council report?
 it is a resolution we need a motion to pass the resolution basically okay matthew so moved second we have a motion in second to pass the resolution um any final comments from the council okay carriage please call the road punch yes turk yes smith yes it's here yes marsh yes kenyon yes hey yes all right thank you all very much all right on the consent agenda
 No one approval of the January 21st 2020 February 4th 2020 and February 18th 2020 City Council meeting minutes number two a resolution to award bid number 19-53 and to authorize a one-year contract with craft Reynolds construction company in the amount of five hundred ninety thousand seven hundred eighty nine dollars for rehabilitation of sanitary sewer manholes throughout federal
 Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract with Burns and McDonald Engineering Company, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $91,282 for construction management and observation services associated with utility relocations at I-49 and Weddington Interchange.
 Number four a resolution to approve amendment number three to the professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins Weir engineers incorporated in an amount not to exceed $30,410 for advertisement and bidding services associated with the Vincent mountain pressure plane improvements project number five a resolution to proven out of scope agreement with ch2m Hill engineers incorporated any amount not to exceed 500
 and $96,335 for task order four of the software upgrades to the SCADATA system used by the wastewater treatment facility operations, lift station operations and water distribution system operations. Number six, number six, a resolution to award bid number 62-123,
 1903 and to authorize a contract with Grasshopper Construction LLC in the amount of 23,417 dollars and 70 cents for Community Development Block Grant rehabilitation of an eligible resident located residents located at 621 lower Lee Street number set a resolution to approve a contract with certain corporation in the amount of twenty eight thousand dollars pursuant to a federal and
 federal general services administration cooperative purchasing program for aerial photography services for the geographic information systems division number eight a resolution to approve a joint funding agreement with the U.S geological survey for stream gauge operations and maintenance and water utility sampling and monitoring at various locations at the city of federal in the 2020
 in 2020 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Number nine, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an engagement letter with DKD LLP and pay an amount not to exceed $112,770 for auditing services for the 2019 audit. Number 10, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sell approximately five acres of land
 of city property, acres of city property located at 2512 South Industrial Drive to Duke Real Properties LLC for $80,000. Number 11, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2020 LEED for Cities and Communities grant awarded by the U.S. Green Building Council, and number 12, a resolution to authorize an application for a 9010 Assistance to Firefighters grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
 the amount of $300,000 for the purchase of two brush truck vehicles for the fire department. I will obtain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sonja? So moved. Teresa? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Teresa, would you please, I mean, I'm sorry. Karen, would you please call the roll? Punch.
 Yes, sir. Yes, Smith. Yes Gutierrez. Yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes Yes, okay. Thank you all very much on the unfinished business an ordinary zone that property described his own petition RZN 1966 for approximately 1.38 acres located at 1340 North
 Porter Road from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to Riu residential intermediate urban I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading second motion is second to go to the second read here would you please go yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 And in order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6966 for approximately 1.38 acres located at 1340 North Porter Road from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to Riu residential intermediate urban. Okay, Garry, got anything new? Good evening Mayor and Council. I do not have anything to add. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this?
 what public comment do we have on this okay i will bring it back to the council so what would you all like to do count sonya yes i'd like to move that we go to the third reading mark i will second that we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading
 Care if we could please call the roll. I'll slow up a little bit. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hedden? Yes. Hedden?
 Ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-69 66 for approximately 1.38 acres located at 1340 North Porter Road from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to our I you Residential intermediate urban. Okay. Well comments mark. Oh, I'm sorry I'm on the wrong screen and I don't know how to get that on. There we go. Okay, sorry. I'm sorry. No, okay, please. Oh
 I've kind of looked at this quite a bit. I've driven by that several times. I've looked at the RAU and I just don't feel that that That designation that zoning designation is compatible with that neighborhood. There are no restrictions on density And so I'm gonna not support this request I think issue with the idea that there's no
 restrictions on density. There are absolutely restrictions on lot size and amount of street frontage and the idea that something doesn't fit with our existing development pattern. You know, we
 We have an existing pattern that prioritizes single-family home ownership, which is very much a result of redlining and racial segregation policies, and that penalizes people who rent. We have a housing crisis in this community, and if you've looked for a place to rent or even buy for something that you could afford on an average salary, there's an extreme shortage of that.
 And by refusing to allow reasonable density in close proximity to where people want to live, work, and shop, we're exacerbating that crisis.
 we need to be building as much as possible right now or or it's going to get worse I mean we have a lot of people experiencing homelessness we have a lot of people spending far more than they should or percentage-wise of their household income for for rent and for transportation because they're forced to drive until they can qualify or afford so it's absolutely unacceptable to me that we are
 dragging our feet on allowing reasonable density in infill areas. So I think that if
 If we support affordable housing, if we support appropriate infill, if we support community revitalization, if we actually want to discourage sprawl and build a livable transportation network, we absolutely must upzone these parcels in question. So I hope that we'll support this, and I hope that we will get really serious about creating attainable housing in this community because we're in a crisis. Okay. Kyle.
 I'll be supporting this because I think that this is absolutely compatible with a neighborhood like this. This neighborhood is undergoing some change. As you watch the houses down the streets in the RSF4 zoning are seeing remodels and additions and having some new life breathe back into them as some others in the neighborhood are kind of run down.
 This is a diverse neighborhood already. Across the street is apartment complexes. Next door is a church, actually two churches. There's a school a block away. Within 1,200 feet of here, I count five different residential zones and a commercial zone, Neighborhood Services Limited. There's a bus stop almost right in front of this, and I think that those neighborhoods
 Sorts of factors just mean this is begging for new modern residential development that will add to the neighborhood.
 i will also note one of the existing zoning types is riu just like this it's on the other side of the the church and the the rmf six zoning that's there on schuyler drive not to it's next street over and arguably i think the development that's currently in the riu zoning is some of the um
 the best most attractive most um walkable sorts of development in the immediate area so i think this is a market uh request that should be could be listened to okay teresa thank you mayor um this neighborhood to the especially to the south and the east is very stable
 It's a modest neighborhood, but it's a very stable neighborhood. It's good to see that people are actually remodeling and restoring many of these houses. And I believe that we need to really respect the neighborhood, have neighborhood integrity, have massing of the same scale as the mayor just mentioned earlier, and it's our 2040 plan. So again, I really believe that this is sort of that whole domino effect.
 where you start, you have one small little RMF 12 on the southwest side, and the next thing you know, the neighborhood starts to begin to change and flip. And I just feel that is inappropriate, and I definitely will not be supporting this. Yes. I'm going to be supporting this because of...
 you know, I feel like when I look at this area, it's not that far away from existing apartments that are, you know, just kind of catty corner across the street.
 You've got a school that is within walking distance, elementary school. Lewis Field is within walking distance of this also. Bus stop, I-49 is close by. So someone who was working at the university could possibly get on a bus and go to work or go to school. I just think it's very, very fitting there. And I also think, is the house vacant, Garner? There's like an old structure on there. There's...
 It appeared vacant. It appeared to be vacant a week ago. Okay. I think it's not been in good condition for a long time. So I look at this, and I think this is time to revisit this property and find a new use for it, and I think this is an appropriate one. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? We're ready to vote. Caravans, please call the roll. Funch? Yes.
 turk no smith yes itera yes marsh yes canyon petty yes it passed okay number two an ordinance to approve a commercial planned zoning district entitled cpzd 19-69-52 for approximately 8.60 acres located at
 5102 West Weddington Drive to allow the development of any storage units and accessory office and retail space Understand that Yes, I did call get a call from the applicants representative this afternoon and he requested that you table this for for two weeks until your March the 17th meeting and
 Or we could leave it here. We just leave it here, wouldn't we? It's on the first. We might as well just read it, and then it'll be in our third reading in two weeks. Okay. But we need a, unless you want me to read the ordinance. No, no, let's, I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Kyle? So moved. Unless you all just want to hear it again. Teresa? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Teresa. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I almost did that again. Okay.
 bunch yes her yes Smith yes Gutierrez yes Marsh yes yes in ordinance to approve a commercial plan zoning district entitled CPZD 19-69 52 for approximately 8.6 acres located at 5102 West Weddington Drive to allow the development of many storage units and accessory office in retail space okay
 Alright, so I assume we're just going to leave it right here, right? Okay. Now moving along to new business.
 A resolution to award bid number 20-07 to authorize a contract with Horsescreen Incorporated in the amount of $2,495,705 for the utility relocation associated with the I-49 and Weddington Interchange project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $249,570.50 and to approve a budget adjustment recognizing reimbursement by the Arkansas Department of Transportation. Tim.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. On February the 6th, the City of Fayetteville accepted five sealed competitive bids for the I-49 interchange utility relocations. Fort Smith Incorporated submitted the lowest bid of $2,495,750.
 R DOT intends to advertise the interchange construction project in the fall of 2020. This bid award will allow the city's existing water and sewer facilities to be properly relocated out of the way in time for the R DOT project.
 The budget adjustment is to recognize the five point six eight percent of the project cost to be reimbursed and one hundred percent of the easements cost That is going to be reimbursed by the Arkansas Department of Transportation the easement cost is two hundred and forty four thousand and the reimbursement for the project itself is a hundred and forty two thousand dollars and
 The autism was presented at the February 11th water and sewer and solid waste committee meeting with a unanimous vote to forward it to the council Therefore consideration. Okie dokie. So y'all looked at Any public comment on this, okay Martin I'm move we passed the resolution Please second. We have a motion to second to pass resolution any final comments from the council care which please call the roll. I
 Fudge. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. All right. Number two, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of bunker gear from North America Fire Equipment Company Incorporated for the Fire Department. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Well, wait a minute. It's got to be North. I'll be sorry.
 Whereas this particular bunker gear was ordered by another municipality utilizing Fayetteville Fire Department specifications and was in the Fayetteville Fire Department colors. And whereas purchasing the gear from NAFCO will enable the fire department to obtain needed gear at a greatly reduced cost. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of bunker gear from north america fire equipment company incorporated for the fayetteville fire department for the amount of twenty four thousand six hundred and fifty dollars plus affable taxes and freight charges okay
 Can't say hold on tonight. It's gonna save us about eight grand So it was very fortunate that he ordered our gear for their department. So we're in dire need of it We're gonna spend the money. Anyway, the money's there. I'd appreciate it. You'd support this any questions from council. Okay any public comment Okay, bring it back to the council Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading all right. I second that we have a motion second second read I
 Would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of bunker gear from North American Fire Equipment Company Incorporated for the fire department. And so, Mark? I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Okay. Cotton? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Butch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. And the ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of bunker gear from North American Fire Equipment Company Incorporated for the fire department. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll?
 Funch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Okay, number three. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6963 for approximately 6.37 acres located at 123 East 15th Street from R.A. Residential Agricultural, RMF 24 Residential Vaulting Family, 24 units per acre to I-1, heavy commercial and light industrial to R.A. Residential Agricultural. Okay.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural, RMF 24, Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Yes mayor This rezoning request is six out of nine acre parcel it's located south of 15th Street between school and Washington and
 It's surrounded by a mobile home park to the west. There were 24 mailboxes there yesterday, and I think it's inhabited by 24 households. There's a mini storage to the south.
 There is an occupied single-family house to the east, and of course Highland Dairy is to the east beyond that. The property is dominated by Town Branch and the Town Branch floodway and floodplain, which traverses the southern portion of the property.
 The requested zoning part is six acres, about three acres of RMF 24, and then the requested I-1. Both are requested to go to residential agriculture. The adopted plans, the 2040 plan, shows the natural area in the floodplain as natural area and the rest of the parcel up to 15th Street as industrial.
 It also recognizes the Town Branch Creek floodplain as an enduring green network. This shows the extent of that. The cross-hatched area on both sides of Town Branch are in the floodway. It has a broad floodway, and the blue areas beyond that is in the 100-year floodplain.
 Issues that were considered historical use, this has been in agriculture uses for many years. Most of the properties in the floodplain and land use compatibility and consistency, as you can see there are a broad range of land uses surrounding this parcel. Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval of the request.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. I think Mr. Commander, the applicant, is at the mic if you have questions for him also.
 Do you have anything you want to say Mr. Coleman? Yes, I just wanted to state that we purchased this property recently as residents of the neighborhood. My wife and I live up the street. Our intention, our motivations for the property are twofold. One is which is to preserve and restore this green space.
 which is dominated by the town branch creek watershed running through roughly half the property and our second motivation is to over time create a community cultural asset in the form of kind of a natural urban animal and nature sanctuary model similarly after other family farm concepts spread throughout the Northwest Arkansas.
 And so our goal with this property is really to activate it over time. And the request is primarily motivated by a desire to preserve our existing use of the property while we work on coming up with a strategic plan for the site. Okay, what questions do we have? Okay. Thank you. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sonja.
 Move we go to the next reading second reading second reading Sir second that we have a motion in a second to go to the second read Yes, sir, yes, yes Gutierrez. Yes Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes, Eddie And your nits a reason on that property described and rezoning petition RZ and 19-69 63 for approximately 6.37 acres
 located at 123 East 15th Street from RA Residential Agricultural, RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to RA Residential Agricultural. Okay. Sonja. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Yes. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sarah, would you please call the roll? Ayes. Ayes.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 19-69-63 for approximately 6.37 acres located at 123 East 15th Street from R.A. Residential Agricultural, R.M.F. 24 Residential Multifamily 24 Units per Acre, and I-1 Heavy Commercial Line Industrial to R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 What final comments do we have? Council. Okay. Sarah. I would like to commend the applicants for what they're seeking to do here. I think that...
 The portion that we're actually rezoning that's all in the floodplain that is actually zoned for multifamily, I think that use is much better served with residential agriculture. I do hope that in the future we're open to something more dense and active right along the street edge. But I think that this is a great interim proposal, and it definitely resolves some of the zoning issues at the back of the property. Okay. Any other final comments? Okay. Karen, would you please go on the line?
 Funch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, number four. In order to vacate to access easement within the Creekview Meadows subdivision,
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas a note on the subdivision plat for Legacy Heights Subdivision Phase 1 that was approved by the City and recorded on April 18, 2007, reflects that a temporary access easement in favor of the City to allow for temporary cul-de-sacs would be, quote, automatically abandoned at the time of street extensions to the north, unquote,
 as development continued in the area, and whereas the easement deed to the City of Fayetteville for those cul-de-sacs granted, quote, a perpetual easement for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing a public street, utility lines, sidewalks, and or public drainage, unquote.
 And whereas the street extensions to the north have been constructed with the appropriate dedication of right-of-way, and the developer of Creekview Meadows subdivision, the property north of Legacy Heights Phase 1, has time-sensitive contracts for lots to be developed within portions of the easements thought to have been automatically abandoned.
 whereas pursuant to section 171 06 e of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code a request to vacate a public easement need not be presented to the Planning Commission before being submitted to the City Council as long as the City Council makes the certain findings by vote of at least two-thirds of its membership and the mayor now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the city council the city of fable archer hereby finds pursuant to section 171.06 e1 of the fable unified unified development code that the access easement does not contain any utilities within the areas to be vacated the street connection to the north has been fully constructed to city standards including the dedication of sufficient right-of-way
 the excess property encumbered by the easement is no longer needed for any municipal purpose section 2 that the City Council city of Fayetteville Archer hereby finds pursuant to section 171 06 e 2 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code that special circumstances exist which require prompt consideration of the vacation request and justify bypassing the Planning Commission section 3
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts Center hereby vacates the access easement as described and shown in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to this ordinance. And Section 4, a copy of this ordinance newly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map, legal description, and survey attached to Exhibit A, B, and C, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Okay. Garth. Yeah, Mayor, these square access easements were dedicated for the sole purpose of temporary turnarounds.
 before the rest of the subdivision was constructed. And they're now no longer needed, they're actually useless, and we recommend that you go ahead and vacate those easements. Okay, you want anything, that is good.
 i feel pretty good um this got walked on for the reason stated by the city attorney and maybe the one thing i'd point out is it doesn't matter if you put it in a contract automatic doesn't mean anything when you're talking about uh filings like this somebody actually has to do the do the paperwork and so that's just what we're dealing with here is to clean it up
 Well, I think it might have been all right if it was just a flat, but they gave us a deed for perpetual easement, and so that's why we have to vacate this. And I think the applicant is here. He can probably explain what happened. Good evening. Yeah, Blake Jorgensen. One, I appreciate you, Council Member Petty, for bringing this to the urgent matter, working with Blake Pennington as well.
 You know 35 years in business we make a few mistakes here and there and the council can clear that matter up at the time we did plat an easement that was intended to be Temporary as depicted on the final plat the language did not portray that we're out lawyers. We're not good at that so therefore we revert back to the City Council to a
 correct our inefficient matter than that so it was just simply a uh you know one word basically happens unfortunately it uh came up when a building permit is trying to be pulled and we appreciate you all taking this into consideration tonight so if you have any questions i can sure answer them thanks okay we have any questions for the applicant or the staff on it we're good okay do you have any public comment on this
 Okay, so now I'm right back to the council. So. Will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Yes. I'll second the motion. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll. Our system is running a little bit slower. It's not wanting to go ahead and take me to the next page. It's okay. So I'm going to go ahead and just call it by paper. It'll be fine.
 bunch yes yes yes yes yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes yes and your nests vacate to access easements within the Creek view Meadows subdivision okay motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final second motion second to go to the third and finally there which please go punch
 yes Turk yes yes yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes heading and owners vacate to access easements within the Creekview meadow subdivision and as was stated within the ordinances require six if only votes to pass yeah just briefly I promise I'll keep it under three minutes
 It shouldn't even be that long. No, I think I may have been the lone vote against the rezoning for this. I absolutely support giving them the land under the easements. But while the exhibit was on our screen, I just wanted to take a real quick
 opportunity to point out what happens when we don't have Local streets defined in our in our master street plan Because here's a section of greens chapel road and just off your screen to the right is another section of greens chapel road that will never be connected and we will have Confused people looking for Friends and family and hopefully we won't have confused emergency services looking for the same Okay, any other comments? All right. I
 Everett's please call punch. Yes, sir. Yes, man. Yes, get Harris. Yes, harsh Yes, Kenyon. Yes, yes Number five in order to enact one fourteen point zero two regulation of single-use disposable bags provided by large food stores Mary before I read this there have been two
 amend this with the typos and also to include what the staff and Councilmember Turk wanted another section in there. So I included both of those. I provided all these to you They're really kind of housekeeping. This is actually what's going to be presented to you the amended ordinance So I would suggest it before I read it That's why I don't read it and not have that additional language in that you would amend it to the final language I handed that out tonight again I've given it to you already through
 email and the clerk has it in the final agenda but I gave it to you again tonight so I would ask someone move to amend the ordinance to what has been handed out tonight provided to you earlier okay which basically is the study portion yes mayor it is and it's also corrects one typo that we noticed in the ordinance language yesterday
 That being said, so the amendment is to fix the typo. So if somebody would amend what was handed out tonight and move to amend that, then we can go forward. It's okay. I move to amend to correct those typos and that section that was overlooked. Okay, copy. Motion to second on the amendment. Is there any public comment on the amendment? Which you probably don't know what that is, do you? Public comment on the fact that
 Why don't you wait and do it when we actually have the bags in front of you? Did you comment on it in a minute? Why don't you wait and do that once we have the ordinance actually before you? Did you want to read the amendment that we put in there? Well. Or do you want to wait? All right. I just didn't read it all in one because this is mainly housekeeping. What comments do we have on the amendment? Anything? Okay. Okay.
 Do we have a motion to second the passed amendment? Is this Theresa and Kyle Wright? Okay. Um, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hutch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay. So this is the proposed amendment, an proposed ordinance after being amended.
 Whereas single-use disposable bags provided by large food stores for customers to carry their groceries and other merchandise home are rarely recycled and are environmental environmentally detrimental to the city and citizens of Fayetteville. And whereas it is estimated that 1,500 single-use bags are used annually per household which leads to substantially littering problem as evidenced during litter cleanups along our city streets and along local streams.
 and whereas single-use disposable bags have been banned or regulated successfully throughout the United States by states and local governments with proven improvements in littering problems
 and whereas by regulating single-use disposable bags, the citizens and City of Fayetteville will likely see a reduction in necessary litter control and its costs, as well as the City's landfill costs for these single-use bags which are currently landfilled rather than recycled by most consumers.
 And whereas in order to determine the effectiveness of this single-use disposable bag fee in reducing the usage of single-use disposable bags, a three-month pre-implementation period in which food stores count but do not charge a fee for single-use disposable bags distributed to their customers should be established.
 whereas a small disposable bag feed will be retained initially by the large food store will be used to offset part of the expense of the low-cost reusable bags for the store's customers and the administrative costs of the retail and also for support of community litter cleanups and recycling education by the store now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts Section 114.20 into the Fayetteville Code as follows. Section 114.20, Regulation of Single-Use Disposable Bags Provided by Large Food Stores. A. Purpose. Single-use disposable bags provided to customers of large food stores cause environmental degradation and substantial litter problems and costs for the city and citizens of Fayetteville.
 In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of our citizens, the Fayetteville City Council should and has hereby enacted the following reasonable regulations to reduce the use of single-use disposable bags, to increase the availability and reduce the cost of reusable grocery bags, to reduce the littering and environmental problems of these single-use bags, and to reduce the city and citizens' costs for litter cleanup and landfilling of these single-use bags.
 Subsection B definitions the following terms used in this section to have the following meetings. Single-use disposable bag means a bag that is produced and offered to customers for single-use convenience at the point of sale. This includes all single-use plastic bags less than 2.25 mils in thickness and single-use paper bags, but does not include reusable bags as defined in this ordinance.
 Reusable bag means a bag that is designed and manufactured to withstand repeated uses over a long period of time, can be cleaned and disinfected, is at least 2.25 mil thick if made from plastic, has a minimum of 75 uses and a GSM rating of 80 or higher. Grams per square meter, GSM, is a measurement of the durability of a reusable bag.
 Food store means any store greater than 10,000 square feet that sells foodstuff, meats, produce, dairy products, and other perishable items and includes similarly sized drugstores that sell these products. Single-use disposable bag fee means a fee charged by the food store that is paid by each consumer utilizing a single-use disposable bag at the point of sale. Subsection C, single-use bag fee requirements. Number one.
 For each single-use disposable bag provided to a customer, food stores shall collect at the point of sale a single-use disposable bag fee of 10 cents, including any applicable sales tax. Two, food stores shall record the number of single-use disposable bags provided and the total amount of single-use disposable bag fees collected from the consumer and printed on the customer's receipt.
 3. Customers purchasing foodstuffs with Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, SNAP, or the Special Supplemental Nutritional Program for Women's, Infants, and Children, WIC, benefits shall be exempted from the single-use disposable bag fee. Subsection D. Investment of single-use bag fees for community environmental benefit.
 Single-use disposable bag fees will be collected by the food store with requirement that the fees collected that exceed the cost to the retailer to provide single-use disposable bags, remit applicable sales taxes, administer the program, and maintain tracking data will be reinvested to provide a community environmental benefit. A community benefit may include, but is not limited to, subsidizing the retail and providing low-cost reusable bags for the purchase of customers,
 supporting the cost for community litter cleanups, investing in recycling education, or other programs or projects that increase environmental awareness or constitute actions that will improve the local environment. Subsection E required signage for food stores.
 Every food store subject to the single-use disposable bag fee shall display signage in locations visible by customers informing customers about the City of Fayetteville's disposable bag fee and briefly explaining the uses of this fee after collection. Subsection F, Pre-Implementation Study Period.
 Food stores that collect accurate information concerning the number of single-use disposable bags distributed free to their customers during the period of October 1 through December 31, 2020. This data shall be provided to the City by January 31, 2021 and used by the City solely to determine the effect upon the number of single-use disposable bags used before and after the implementation of the bag fee on January 1, 2021.
 The food store's administrative costs to administer this program and maintain tracking data during this pre-implementation period may be accounted for and recovered from future single-use disposable bag fees collected after January 1, 2021. Subsection G, Audits. Food stores will be required to begin the collection of the 10 cent per single-use disposable bag fee beginning on January 1, 2021.
 Each food store regulated by the provisions of this section shall maintain accurate and complete records of the single-use disposal bag fees collected and the number of single-use disposal bags provided to customers. These records shall be reported to the City each quarter beginning by April 30, 2021, and shall be reserved for no less than three years. The City also reserves the right to review these records upon request at any time.
 Food stores shall also provide the city with records of how the money collected from single-use disposal bag fees beyond the store's costs to supply these bags has been invested to further the community environmental benefit requirement of this ordinance. Okay. Peter. Good evening, Mayor and Council. As I'm sure you are all aware, single-use disposable bag ordinances are becoming increasingly popular.
 across the United States in an effort for local communities to decrease litter in the environment and reduce unnecessary use of single-use bags that are manufactured, used for less than 20 minutes, and then thrown away. On June 4th of 2019, you all passed a resolution expressing intention to consider regulating single-use bags
 shopping bags and difficult to recycle or reuse or compost single-use items. Since that time, the City's Sustainability Department began working with the Mayor's Office, Council Member Teresa Turk, the City Attorney, the Recycling and Trash Collections Division, and the City's Environmental Action Committee to conduct a peer city analysis, community survey, and impact assessment of policy options to reduce the number of single-use carryout bags. Thank you.
 with a goal of lessening their environmental impacts on our community. City staff conducted research on peer cities and states that regulate single-use disposable bags to better understand successful best practices and the unintended consequences of various bag laws. For the analysis, staff researched and assessed five different policy options. The first option was a status quo option with no regulation on single-use bags.
 The second option was a bag ban on single-use plastic carryout bags only. The third option was a ban on single-use plastic bags with a fee on all other carryout bags. The fourth option was a fee on all carryout bags with money collected going back to the retailer. And the fifth option was a fee on all carryout bags with a portion of that fee covering the retailer's costs and the remainder of that fee being allocated for a community environmental benefit.
 A policy matrix was developed that ranked the five policy options on a scale of very negative to very positive as they related to the following policy goals. Environmental benefits, lifecycle benefits, education and outreach, political feasibility, financial feasibility, operational feasibility, enforcement feasibility, equity, economic impact and replicability for other communities.
 City staff also researched peer communities and found that most single-use disposable bag ordinances contained some common elements clearly defined in applicability provisions. Those included SNAP exemptions for SNAP beneficiaries, a phase-in time period, requirements to the retailer to provide reusable bags for sale at checkout, and a reporting protocol for the number of single-use disposable bags reduced over time.
 Additionally, city staff developed and launched a survey, an online survey to residents and businesses to gauge community interest in pursuing regulations regarding single-use plastics. That survey was opened from July 7th of 2019 through August 22nd of 2019 and was located on our Speak Up website and distributed through various online resources.
 The resident and visitor survey had over 2,000 responses and the business survey had over 150 responses. A couple of notable results from that survey from the residential survey included that 96% of Fayetteville residents support litter reduction in Fayetteville streams and waterways as well as support reduce the amount of trash going to our landfill. 60% of our residents would support a 10 cent
 FEA ON CHECKOUT BAGS. AND 58% WOULD BRING THEIR REUSABLE BAGS MORE OFTEN OR USE LESS CHECKOUT BAGS IF A FEA WERE ENACTED. THE INFORMATION FROM THIS ASSESSMENT WAS COMPILED IN A SINGLE USE BAG ANALYSIS THAT IS ATTACHED IN YOUR PACKET AND WAS PRESENTED TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION COMMITTEE FOR REVIEW AND DISCUSSION IN THE FALL OF 2019.
 The Environmental Action Committee recommended that staff produce a draft ordinance based primarily on Policy Option 5 with an added clause that the retailer would provide a community environmental benefit. Staff then began working again with Mayor Jordan, City Councilmember Turk, and City Attorney Kit Williams on drafting the proposed ordinance outline. That outline is presented and includes.
 was presented to the Environmental Action Committee on July 27th of 2020, and the Environmental Action Committee unanimously supported the recommendation to bring that draft ordinance forward to the City Council based on Policy Option 5, a fee on all carryout bags with a portion of that fee covering the cost of the retailer and the remainder being allocated for community environmental benefit. The proposed ordinance before you tonight includes seven major provisions in applicability. They are...
 including that each paper or plastic checkout bag would be assessed a 10 cent fee at checkout. This does not include produce bags or meat bags distributed in the store prior to checkout. Second item is that the entirety of the fee would be kept by the retailer, with a portion of that fee allowed for the retailer to offset the cost associated with bag purchase, implementation of the bag fee, and reporting of the bag fee in sales.
 The third element is that the balance of the fee must be reinvested by the store into a community environmental benefit such as reusable bags, litter cleanups, or recycling education. The fourth element of the ordinance is that the single-use bag fee applies to all food stores in Fayetteville that are 10,000 square foot and larger.
 This would apply to all grocery stores, CVS, Walgreens, Target, and Walmart, but would not apply to small ethnic grocery stores or other specialty grocery stores, hardware stores, department stores, or restaurants within the city. Customers purchasing food with SNAP, food stamps, or WIC are exempt from paying the $0.10 checkout fee. The retailers must provide quarterly report of bag sales to the city.
 And the final element is that signage is required at all stores advising of the bag fee and reminding folks to try and bring their reusable bag. In order to provide an adequate phase-in period for stores, the proposed ordinance requiring the collection of the single-use disposable bag fee would take effect on January 1, 2021.
 And there would be a reporting requirement that would take effect in October that would require three months of baseline collection data from the stores reporting on how many bags are sold during that three-month period. At agenda session, there was a question about paper bags versus plastic bags and why they're being regulated the same under this ordinance. I want to take just a few moments to talk about that and then be glad to answer any questions you all might have.
 Both paper and plastic bags are recyclable. Paper bags can be recycled in your curbside program readily at the City of Fayetteville. Plastic bags can be returned to Walmart and Harps and other retailers for recycling.
 Paper, of course, is biodegradable when and if it becomes litter, but a plastic bag, obviously, is not biodegradable and would have higher ecological impacts when it becomes litter, degrading eventually into microplastics that create water quality issues both in streams and then downstream in our oceans.
 But the real difference between the two in our mind and in our analysis is related to the lifecycle cost assessment that we did for paper bags versus plastic bags. A paper bag has about three times the carbon footprint of a plastic bag. And if you think about the transition that many retailers have made,
 Since the 70s, let's say, when paper bags were the only type of bag available at grocery stores, to now where plastic bags are more common at our grocery stores. The reason the grocers have transitioned to the plastic bags is because the plastic bag is less resource efficient, which equates to less cost for those grocery stores. The cost of a plastic bag is about $0.01 to $0.03 for grocers. The cost of a paper bag is $0.08 to $0.12 for the retailers.
 So in our analysis, we felt like it would be irresponsible of us in terms of trying to develop an ordinance that reduced litter and reduced waste, that would inadvertently push our residents to more paper bags because those paper bags have that higher carbon footprint, are more resource intense.
 and consume more resources in their production. Therefore, we felt like the responsible ordinance recommendation was to treat both paper bags and plastic bags the same and assess the fee equally on both types of bags, thereby trying to drive down total disposable bag consumption and total resource consumption in our community.
 With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions you all might have on the ordinance or any of the provisions that are located within it. Okay. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Okay. Why food only and not hardware stores or department stores? That's a great question.
 In terms of peer city analysis and looking where communities started most often the food stores rose to the top and appeared to be the the lowest hanging fruit and the most common types of stores where these ordinance were implemented in communities across the country and
 And while I don't have scientific analysis that would show and prove that the majority of the bag generation in Fayetteville does come from food stores, I would say anecdotally, the observation is definitely that the majority of disposable bags generated in our community are coming from food stores. And particularly those large food stores are the largest generators of those bags.
 Mayor, if I could add to that too, Peter's worked very hard with Walmart and Harps and some of the stores that are going to be affected like this to try to make sure that this is going to be something that is going to be seamless when they adopt it and that they have heard the terms, they looked at our ordinance and had it explained to them.
 And I think they're fairly agreeable. And so we felt like that was the best place to start. And like I think what Peter said, even though I don't think we have actual facts to prove this, but it seems to me like a lot more plastic bags go out of food stores than any other type of store. So this is probably where our first effort should be directed. I think that's why we chose food stores. Anybody else? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 And here is the rules. There's one turn at the mic with a five minute duration. Unless the City Council has questions or by a motion and a second and a majority vote of the council, they decide how much time they're going to give you. Address your comments to me. Don't engage anybody in the council or members of the public. Stay on topic, which is pretty well self-defined here. I don't want any outbursts from the public.
 And please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first to address us? Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I generally support the broader objectives of this ordinance, but I have a few points I'd like to make. One, it seems a little bit to me that it's a solution in search of a problem. I drove all around the city today. I went from the northeast corner where I live to the far southernmost point
 Then I came back into town to vote. Then I went out to Mission and Crossover, and I went back home. Then later in the afternoon, I went all the way over to Sam's and shopped and came back through the center of the city to home. I did not see one single plastic bag anywhere. And, in fact, I can't think of the last time that I saw a plastic bag anywhere, outdoors, drifting around. And I'm sensitive to it because I lived in Spain from 1984 to 1987,
 And in the summertime, when the tourists came down from northern Europe, it was dreadful. I mean, you couldn't go anywhere in southern Spain and not see what looked like a thousand plastic bags blowing around in the fields, in the highway, on the beaches, everywhere. So I'm pretty sensitive to it, and I would want to support this. But a few points. One single use. Again, these kind of studies devolve into...
 employing phrases, single use less than 20 minutes. When we bring these bags home, we usually double bag and then we, when they're clean still, and we put food in it to keep it moist. You know, you wrap it up tight and put it in the refrigerator to keep it moist. And then we use them, we double or sometimes triple bag them to clean out the litter box for the cats. So it has at least a triple use in our home.
 Another problem that isn't really addressed, there was one mention of the word cleaning, but there are articles on national public radio and there are a bunch of articles on the internet. Plastic reusable grocery bags can spread food-borne disease. Plastic bags are the healthier option. Spreading viruses in the grocery store via reusable grocery bags. Reusable grocery bags retain germs. This is a problem. Now, I'm not a...
 historical person about coronavirus. If it were up to me, we'd just get it. Everybody get it. A couple percent would die and we'd be done with it because most of the people who are dying from it already have some underlying ailment.
 I think it's causing much more disruption to society to do what we're doing. But these bags are a real disease vector. If you put a head of lettuce in it and that lettuce has salmonella, it's still going to be there unless you sterilize the bag. And frankly, this is a Spanish bag from Ipercor in Spain. We went there last spring.
 And the Spanish are addressing this issue. You can buy this for about a euro, which is about $1.20, or in some stores they sell you the skinny bags, in some stores you have to buy them. But I think it can help the problem, but you've got to keep these clean, and the other thing is when you finally throw it away, this is probably going to be less biodegradable than the other stuff.
 the skinny bags i don't know i don't know why they can't make bags that are biodegradable i think they have that kind of plastic i'd like to see more of that approach the carbon footprint was addressed a little the light plastic bags are much more transportable than the heavy ones i guess you'll get to the other plastics later i i saw that the resolution you passed last year dealt with the broader array of plastics and i think they're a much bigger problem but
 I wish that this rule were universal. If the bags are a problem, make it apply to everyone. And the other thing I feel is Kit has set this up, he's a shrewd lawyer, from something I read, so that it's not technically a tax that would be a problem because if it were a tax under Arkansas law, you'd have to take it to the citizens. But I would rather that it be done that way, presented as a tax.
 And then do it on a broad basis, educate all the citizens, not just little 1,000 or 2,000 people you talk to downtown. And get the citizens all behind it. I think you could do that with an issue like this. There was one more point I wanted to make, but I'll actually leave 10 seconds on the table. Thanks. Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address us on this? My name is Tom Brown. Tom?
 And I live at 2031 West Main Street. I don't have a copy of the ordinance in front of me, so it's difficult to be specific. The Sierra Club put out a study a while ago. We've been live here. Tom, I'm having just a little bit of trouble hearing you. Could you hold the mic just a little bit closer? I can't hear you. I'm having trouble hearing you. Turn the mic up. You're talking about Sierra Club? Yes, go on.
 The Sierra Club magazine within last year had a big article, large, large article done by a study on the issue of single-use plastic bags. And it turns out, as we heard earlier, the carbon footprint for paper bags is huge compared to a single-use plastic bag. And in many other ways, the single-use plastic bag is cheaper for the environment. It's cheaper economically
 Yes, we have a disposal problem. That's a people problem. And we're solving it here in Fayetteville because people just don't throw them around the way they did a couple of years ago because they're more conscious of it. So one, I'm going to speak against the ordinance as it's stated right now. Two, I'm going to ask that you hold this over for other hearings at other weeks so that people in the community have an opportunity to understand what's about to drop on them. And as was just mentioned, the idea that this is not a tax issue,
 And that we can scam this on people and not actually stand up and say, we're taxing you. I mean, that's a lie. And I don't think we need to be liars. I think we should tell the truth. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I will bring it back to the council. Well mayor. I'd like to say that in fact This is not a tax. This is a fee a fee difference between a tax and fee is that if the government? Collects money and puts it in its general fund that a lot of times can be a tax and
 It can sometimes be a fee because we have building fees, building permit fees and things like that to offset our costs and provide a service for the citizens who pay it.
 So that's we can have fees that actually go into our general fund But if this money doesn't go into our general fund In fact was is kept by the merchant and then used for the purposes that are outlined in this ordinance It certainly is a fee. It is not a tax and cannot be a tax and I would ask a
 maybe Peter to comment about the studies and the cleanups that we've had in the past that have showed that in fact we have plastic bag problems in the city Sure the Information is sort of outlined or explained a little bit of more detail in the analysis single-use bag analysis that's provided in your packet, but I
 We do a significant number of litter cleanups along streams and along roadside throughout the community. We had a, there was an actual audit done of the litter from a town branch creek cleanup that was done a couple of years ago and found, I believe it was about a quarter of the litter by volume was either styrofoam or plastics. And so, yeah.
 There's a fair amount of work and money that goes in every year in terms of city resources and volunteer efforts from our citizens to help clean up litter from both roadside and our streams.
 Both this effort and the effort at reducing EPS or styrofoam that you all passed last year are in part, you know, trying to reduce the amount of litter that we do see in our community. So it's absolutely a real challenge and a real problem for us in both this measure and the previous measure. We seek to address that. And I can speak my personal opinion.
 experience that the Rotary Club picks up on Mission Boulevard from North Street out to 265.
 And, except for cigarette butts, plastic bags are number one and have been for a long time. I hope that, you know, maybe everything just got cleaned up or whatever because we do have quarterly cleanups there for the club. But it is, I think, a continuing problem and we hope that we're going to address that problem a little bit and reduce that problem a little bit with this single bag disposable feed. Okay. Tracy. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. You know, I sort of started this discussion with folks and part of this was because I would be out biking on the bike trails and I would challenge anybody to go out and bike on the Razorback Greenway and take a look at the streams when they go past the streams. They are totally littered, unfortunately, with styrofoam and plastic bags.
 And that, you know, we have this great greenway that we've created. It's an economic generator. It's a quality of life. It's an environmental issue. And if we could just try and cut down on our waste, you know,
 I think it would make this city so much better. I also want to say that this is kind of not a new idea. There are hundreds of cities that have enacted ordinances like this. They've shown a sharp decline in their single-use plastic bag usage. Most of the time, it's plastic and paper, so it's both practices.
 And, you know, I think we have to start somewhere. So we tried to start with large grocery stores, food stores that are very familiar with these other bag regulations that have been enacted in other parts of the country. So that was sort of our rationale.
 I agree with Mr. Tomlinson that we really need to have this much broader, but we wanted to make sure that we got it right, that we found the right balance, that we did not overwhelm our citizenry and spring this on them immediately. And we were trying to be very conscious about what made the most sense. I really want to thank the staff, the sustainability group for working so hard.
 researching a lot of different cities a lot of different options the Chamber of doing some research over in Colorado on what had been successfully implemented implemented in that area in Boulder And also to the legal staff to kit for drafting up this ordinance We've gone through this
 quite intensely for the last six months and tried to find a balance. What worked for Fayetteville, learning from other cities and trying to be sort of reasonable about, about this ordinance. So I would like to make sure that we don't go through and pass this in one evening. I would like to give the citizens a chance to think about this some more to express their viewpoints and, and hear what they have to say. Thank you.
 Okay. Sarah? Yes, I think this is a, you know, I think a lot of thought has gone into this and I know other cities in the country are doing things that are similar. You know, probably 15, 17 years ago, I spent quite a bit of time in Ireland and at that time if you went to the grocery store, you had to either bring your bag or you paid for a bag. They didn't just give you single-use plastic bags then. That was quite a while ago.
 You know if you if you want to see a plastic bag you can come to my house And there's one stuck in a tree that I can't get down and it just mocks me every time I go out there But it's you know I have I have them all the time on my street And they just I think they get they get loose from the trash or something like that And they're just they're just blowing in the wind there. I think this is a pretty reasonable and and fair
 Ordinance and it is a is it is like a lot of other things that we do. I see this as a stepping stone it is To something that is much maybe broader at some point in time, but I think it's a really good place for us to begin I know a lot of thought has gone into this and I'm willing to Table it and let it let people you know come and more people talk about it or you know Yeah, leave it where it is
 But I think it's a good beginning. Thank you. Thank you. I think that anyone who thinks that plastic bags are not a problem, I would invite you to walk down the Cato Springs Trail or the Chalagy Loop.
 I walk these trails almost daily and it is shocking the amount of plastic waste that is littered through our forests, in our streams. I picked three plastic bags up out of my yard in the past week and I don't use them. So I know they didn't come from me and they were labeled with branded with retailers I don't shop at. Um, yeah.
 And so I'm really glad that we're doing this. I hope that it'll help save some volunteer hours as well as clean up our creeks and keep our storm drains from being clogged, keep these from being ingested by wildlife, and make our community look less trashy. Because it really looks trashy when we litter trash all through our community. So I think it's a point of just...
 good housekeeping and best practices that we eliminate these. I moved here from Seattle where we had a ban on plastic bags and paper bags. It wasn't a big deal. You just take your own. Several of our grocery stores like Aldi already do that or charge for bags. So I think that this is a really common sense thing that we probably should have done years ago, but I'm glad that we're getting to it now. Anybody else?
 Okay, I said we're just gonna leave it here for two weeks. Okay. No, all right number six a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the federal city council to limit public comments to three minutes each and recognize these statutory reading requirement for ordinances may be dispensed with a single motion to suspend our dispense with the rule Matthew yes, thank you mayor
 Well, I appreciate the council taking the time to consider this this evening as you know Especially if you saw the graphic from the Fayetteville flyer There's a trend of our meetings haven't gotten quite a bit longer over the last 12 months or so And this is an attempt to address that I wanted to take just a second to maybe voice some of the concerns I've heard from the public about or some of my fears about how this might be perceived and
 and start with that before I talk briefly about why in particular I think that this is a good thing that will make our meetings better. And then after that, maybe I'll talk a little bit about some of the amendments that we might choose to make to the language that's before us. Particularly worried that members of the public are going to think that us, or if the council votes for it, that the council is trying to squash input or that we don't think input is –
 actually valuable. I also worry that, you know, it seems like people might even go so far as to think that we resent receiving public input. Or in my case being a developer, even that I'm corrupt in trying to keep a limit input a little bit more than the limits we have on it today. Someone suggested that I might be doing this because a recent vote hadn't gone my way.
 Or that I wanted more time for the council to be able to talk Ourselves if you feel any of those are true or if you've got other reasons that that are your own for why you might not support This so I respect that and I just want to say I'm not I'm not gonna take anything personally myself If you have a different opinion and you want to vote no You know that that's okay, but I would encourage you to approach it with a with an open mind and
 I decided this was worth doing for a couple of reasons, and I had the courage to do it now in particular because I was asked by some people who were here to speak on the location of the parking deck starting in December.
 And people who are very concerned about the proposal by the city asked me if there was anything we could do to make the meetings go a little bit faster so that they might have more time to get an input on the items that they cared about.
 I think too that it's just a fact that we're all human. As much as we might not like to admit it out loud, our faculties, I think for considering items and business and giving it our full attention do go down as the night gets later. And frankly, I think that the people who voted for me, regardless of what you think about how smart I am or the opinions and conclusions I come to, the people who voted for me deserve
 my full faculties for this business and I'm just simply not able to do that starting at around 11 or 1130. I think that's something probably all of us can relate to even though maybe it makes us a little bit vulnerable or exposed to talk about it. I think also too that something that we should be concerned about always is the morale of our staff and
 who are subjected to these meetings and still have to work a full week. Of course, most of us up here have other jobs, aren't retired and have to go back to work on Wednesday mornings and get up and go to work on a full day on Tuesday before these meetings. And it's the same for our staff. And as much as our individual morale may suffer, I think you would find that that's reflected among staff. And it's something that is important for us to consider in the way that we manage and steward the city.
 For me, it comes down to a couple of questions. Is it true that we can stay fair and be more efficient? I think that is true, and I think that's easy for most people to agree with. Can we do better for these meetings by amending the rules that we have?
 And I think it's true that even if we aren't sure in particular what those amendments should be or what those best amendments are, that it's true that most of us can probably agree that changes to the rules could potentially make our meetings more effective and keep them staying fair. And so I think for me, the question then is how should we change the rules in order to do that?
 So I have suggested a couple of things through this resolution, and there were some other good suggestions that we heard from council members at the agenda session. In particular, this proposal would reduce the standard time given to anybody speaking at the microphone from five minutes to three minutes.
 That's really the thrust of the proposal the bid in the resolution about Motions to suspend the rules and advance the third readings. That's merely a clarification The motion to do that now would be proper although Unexpected because it hasn't been our convention for some time the other suggestions. I think are very fair and I'd support them Although I'd like to tweak a little bit the language that was draft drafted by our city attorney Which I might talk about in a second
 Those suggestions, the first I'll mention from Council Member Smith, were to make it more speedy, to be able to extend a speaker's time by allowing the time to be extended by unanimous consent. I think that's a fair rule. I can see when people do have something more to say and the council acknowledges it, that it interrupts them and forces them to waste a little bit of time to regather their thoughts.
 And so I think that's a smart proposal. The second amendment came from Council Member Turk, and I also think this is fair to limit the default amount of time given to an applicant to speak to 10 minutes. I think that is very fair. And also, as long as we're able to extend time in the same way, I think that is well and appropriate.
 there was also another suggestion that council members should also have their time limited and i'll say to you that's something i'll vote for very easily and proud to do so it's not something that i feel threatened about i am curious what the rest of the council thinks about that particular proposal i say all this because i remember a agenda session when uh council member smith uh suggested that maybe we should make some other changes i expressed a little bit of reluctance or caution to do too much
 But I think that with my desire to maybe tweak some of the language that came from the city attorney's office just a little bit and the prospect of also including an amendment that would limit the amount of time that council members speak, that it may be worthwhile to send this to a committee for a more detailed discussion. And in fact, there may be other things or tweaks to the code that have a consensus of the committee that I'm not aware of today. And so I wanted to float that.
 uh i'm willing uh to vote on this tonight i'm willing to table it for two weeks just to give people time to think about it and i'm also willing to see it go to a committee so these amendments can be discussed in in more detail and see it come back to the council after that i'm eager to hear your thoughts okay let's get started who wants to be first nobody wants to talk okay uh all right let's open it up for public comments then
 Everybody I think knows the rules. One-turn mic, five-minute duration unless the city council has questions or by a motion and a second. A majority vote gives you more time. Address comments to me, don't engage any city council members or members of the public. Stay on topic, which is, well, is the time limit suspended? Well, we haven't even got to all that yet. So let's just stay with the three-minute time limit.
 If that's agreeable, unless you all want to put something else out there. All right now. What do we got before us? What was presented to the city council at the agenda session is what's before you right now, and that's the original request by Councilmember Petty to reduce the amount for public to speak from five minutes to three minutes. Yep.
 Then they had a second one talking about where you could immediately go to the third and final reading without going to the second Reading that's the only thing right now in front of us the rest are amendments I drafted after hearing the council at the agenda session, okay? That's cool, so what we're really looking at right now is the three minute limit and the three readings and one Okay, all right I can't address the Three minute readings it just seems obvious if that should go I
 Would you introduce yourself? Brashears, Ezra Brashears of Ward 1. But today I'd like to address changing the five minute to three minute. I was so upset when I found out about this. I decided I'd go back and answer the question, if a new member asked me how long a council meeting should be, should they budget so much time?
 I couldn't tell them. I've heard of a 10 hour and 16 minute meeting in 2014. The average, I know because I went back through 265 minute reports. That stretches from 2019 back to 2009. And I sent that to you this afternoon if I had the right email address. What it appears to be is that your average meeting time is 2 hours and 14 minutes.
 But last year it went up to a little over three hours. So the trend is going up. You have responsibilities to balance your life. You've got your family and you've got your work and you have your public service. I would like to see the meetings end no later than 9.30, four hour meeting at the most. How do we do that? Well, I think that changing the time that people speak needs to be done.
 But why don't we think about after the third hour, change the time that people speak to two and a half minutes. There's been a full three hours. They've had five minutes each. And you give up some and you take some. Now you're stepping on the toes of the public if you change the five minutes to three minutes the first three hours.
 We're stepping on your toes if we don't change the time from five minutes to two and a half minutes. There should be a balance there just like there is in our lives between what we need to get done. But the data that I developed will show that on a 24-meeting year, you're going to spend 83% of your time on meetings less than four hours, so three to four hours.
 That's about how much time we need to spend. But those other four meetings, oh my God. In those you spend more than six hours per meeting. Now, when something comes up to the public and it's important, I don't have the answer. All I know is the next day your employers are going to get a sleep deprived person and they're paying you 100% of what you get.
 So what's the answer? I don't know. But I wouldn't change the five minute. It's bad optics. People can't develop their ideas in five minutes usually. And people will come in knowing, because some people don't want to speak five minutes. They'll go for two and a half easily. We need to do something that works it out. But going from five to three. And by the way, I was pretty angry with Mr. Petty on bringing this up.
 So as I was developing my data over those 265 meetings, I noted when you were absent and when you were late and I was going to use that. Nothing there, Mayor. Nothing approaching what would be considered bad behavior for a City Council member. As a matter of fact, I noticed he served for 10 consecutive years and is your senior member on the City Council.
 So he's used a lot of guts. He's brought it up. He sees something needs to be done, and I'm sure everybody agrees. The question is why, and I suggest, like I said before. Let me look at my notes. Oh, by the way, I noticed the mayor, over 265 meetings, didn't miss anything, and special meetings too. So give him a little applause. Oh, we can't do that. Never mind.
 That's about all that I've got with 16 seconds left. Thank you. Who else? Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I guess you know I'd speak. That's why I'm here primarily. Let me address the second issue first. As I understand, you could go straight to a third reading? Yes. Okay.
 Some cities do that. Some cities don't actually even read the whole ordinance, only the title. We have always historically gone through what the statute says, three readings, so we have suspended the rules twice in order to go to the third and final reading instead of just once. All right, just a quick observation. If it were unanimous, then it would be
 almost basically a consent issue that should have been on the consent agenda. So I certainly wouldn't object if all the aldermen agreed to go straight to the third reading and skip the second. And I agree, there's some time when it's just maddening to sit there and listen to the same thing over and over again. It's like being in church in the old days when they didn't. But there have been times, I think, and I don't have an example when
 In the course of doing those readings, some alderman or another has suddenly spoken up and said, can we table this or wait till next week or whatever? And it's not always useless. So anyway, if you went all the way to unanimous consent, then go to the third reading and be done with it. Don't waste time. But as far as the five minutes versus three minutes, this gentleman just spoke. He used five minutes. He wasn't done at three. And I was listening to every word he said.
 I think it was about two months ago during the debate about our SEGAs that a lady stood up and as she left this room, she said they ought to limit public comment to three minutes. And that may have planted the seed for this. I don't know. I know I planted a few seeds for the five minute limit.
 I'm not necessarily opposed to it. I have two dozen of these little books. These are my five-minute books where if it were really substantive issue, I could get my thoughts and exhibits into these skinny little binders. I don't have any three-minute binders yet. I don't think they make any. But this is an awkward situation. I'm here asking for more public involvement on a night when the room is basically empty and there are just two of us here.
 And the reason I came, even though I didn't really want to come, is because I voted today. I didn't vote twice. It's an old sticker and a new one. But it's just a variation on the same sermon that I give you almost every night when I come here. Because there are nights when I don't come here because I don't really have an interest in that issue.
 And I would like to get home earlier too. When I drag in at 1 a.m., I got to answer to two cats who think they're going to be fed again, and I'm exhausted. So I feel for you, and I don't know that it's productive to have these meetings drag on interminably. But all I would say is if, after thought and hopefully tabling this and thinking about it, if you drop the time down below five minutes,
 You should be more open to listening to dissenters like me and extend their out three minutes not just the time of the people whom you like and Because there's sometimes when you can't get it the statement done in three minutes. Dr Zola moon when she spoke used five minutes and I think all her words were well chosen and It's just again. It's it's part of this bigger picture where I'm very frustrated and
 that the city doesn't do things by doing the hard work of pitching to 52,000 voters clearly stated issues in general elections and supporting democracy. And the more and more and more you get down to special elections and then these little surveys of your 1,000 or 2,000 feet elite down here who go online and answer these surveys of yours, there's certainly a lot more than 150 businesses in this city
 And now when you're further potentially going to constrain citizens from speaking on these issues, that bothers me. It bothers me that it's not the free and open democracy that I think America should be at all levels of government.
 but it's becoming more and more like an autocracy that really just doesn't want to be bothered with the citizens or talking to us or, worse than that, listening to us. So I think if you're going to do this, you should do it carefully, and you should make allowance when a citizen tells you, because there are some people I wish you had cut off at two minutes, including sometimes myself, but I wish you'd be generous in allowing extensions. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. Is that loud enough? Yes, I can hear you. Tom Brown, 2031 West Main Street. I arrived here in northwest Arkansas in 1987. I came from Alaska, where I had served on the Quorum Court up there as a Borough Assembly, and I'd served on a solid waste commission where we were studying incinerators for municipal garbage.
 The first day I was here, January 1987, front page in the Northwest Arkansas Times about the local government, Mr. Mayor, that wanted to build the garbage incinerator up on the campus on Dixon Street in that hollow in the power plant and burn all the garbage and produce electricity out of the waste that would come off of the burning of the garbage. So I said, oh my goodness, now I know why I came to Arkansas.
 Because I'd spent two years already defeating and studying and traveling around the country and looking at incinerators that were burning garbage. Total disasters. And there's nobody that can point to a single garbage incinerator on this planet that isn't polluting today. The few that still exist. Because we had public speech at city council meetings and quorum court meetings, the people in this county were able to get together and stop that incinerator.
 It was very inconvenient for the city council members who didn't get to get home Early enough so they get their beauty sleep and go to work the next day and feel good about it But then they were the ones that were trying to shove this garbage Incinerator down our throats which would have been a disaster We all admit now in which some of us knew would be a disaster then but we weren't getting paid to do this other people were achieving financial benefits by supporting this people that wanted to limit public speaking and
 So, I will guarantee you, I have a hundred times more difficulty today in mobilizing public support to come to a city council meeting because most people say, it's just a waste of time. They won't even let you speak anymore. And then they have three emergency hearings in one night and they will only allow public comment on one of the hearings. That's how desperate they are to keep us from having control over our government.
 No, I know you all pay taxes too. I understand that. But you're the ones that spend the taxes. And if we can't adequately express ourselves to you, and that means we feel like we've adequately expressed ourselves, then what's the difference between you and Franco and Mussolini and Hitler and Poyton in France and Quisling up in Sweden? There's no difference.
 None of those guys wanted to hear any public comment. They had their plans. They knew it was right, and they were going to do it. And don't get in our way. So there you have it. You want to ruin democracy in this country, in this city? Go ahead. Do what Mr. Petty wants. I understand. It's a real problem having to listen to the public. It's to be a real pain in the butt.
 So the alternative is Mr. Petty should resign and go home so he isn't burdened with the terrible burden of having to send meetings and spend so much time considering the public's input. Okay, who else would like to address this? Well, I'll bring it back to the council. Matthew, what would you all like to do? Mark, I see Mark.
 Yes, thank you mayor So I did want to just recap real briefly that while the proposal is to reduce the default amount of input Given to each speaker It's also with the suggested amendments that those are implemented Would make it easier to extend that and I think that we've had a real reasonable application that rule in the past and then we've been diligent about doing that and
 I also think it's useful to maybe paint a picture of what a radical reduction in public input would look like. For instance, there's nothing that requires us to take public input at all. And if we wanted to not hear from the public, it would be within our rights as an elite city council member to refuse to hear from them. There's no statute that requires it. A lot of cities split the difference, so to speak, and only allow public comment at the very beginning of the meeting.
 which I can only think of as token public input. I don't think Fayetteville has that reputation. I don't think it has the reputation as was just characterized to us. I've heard over and over again, whenever we have these controversies that people appreciate that even though
 Someone up here may have disagreed with their individual opinion that everybody seemed to spend a lot of time listening and that the listening appeared to be in good faith, so I don't have the Sense that Fayetteville has a reputation of ignoring public input And I don't think anybody in the region has a sense that that's an accurate description of Fayetteville either
 I do I am very interested. I think the ordinance is better and maybe it's even fair to describe the suggested amendments is critical To make this ordinance worth passing And I also believe that it's worthwhile Suggestion that our comments should be limited I
 Think that's something that's that's worth our consideration and I have some ideas about the details of that I also have some ideas about the details of Maybe some tweaks to the language some wordsmithing for the amendments as drafted from the other from the city attorney's office and so I would suggest that
 tabling this for four weeks to give the ordinance review committee time to meet and consider it I realize it's a resolution and it's not an ordinance but it is legislation and that is the only committee we have to review review drafted legislation so I think it makes sense to me and not make that motion at this time I'm very interested to hear other spots okay
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mark, I apologize. All of us are going to get a chance to speak as long as we want. We're city council members. This actually bothers me a lot. I've been here also 10 years, and we've had some long meetings. And what I think about Fayetteville is we're a community that's engaged.
 To go from five minutes to three minutes, I think is restrictive.
 but there's something else about this resolution it's two minutes in one not only are we restricting the time but we're also adding this straight to the vote without three readings and there's been numerous times i've seen since i've been on city council that i think people are thinking you know maybe we better put on some breaks after we did it the second time and it has happened
 So I don't like that instant passage of an ordinance. Ordinances are important. A resolution often is just a suggestion. It's not an ordinance. This restriction of speech from the general public is troubling to me.
 there are some people that are long-winded we have some administrative staff there are long-winded we have council members including myself sometimes they get long-winded I think that we need to learn to be courteous perhaps but that's a personal choice I also support sending this to the ordinance review committee because I think that we have to look at a way to manage things but I do not think we need to restrict
 the further restrict the opportunity for a person to speak. Five minutes is not that long, and that's what we have currently. A lot of people don't take the five minutes. So I'm troubled by this, just based on my principles that Fayetteville has always had an open arms to hear and open ears to hear people.
 and to let them express their thoughts. And five minutes is not that long. Three minutes is lickety-split. Three minutes is nothing. So I've got to think about this. I'm troubled. Thanks. Okay. Thank you. Sarah. Yes. You know, one of the – I was hoping we'd have more people here to comment on this. I was expecting more people here because –
 We have, you know, one of the things I love about Fayetteville is we have a really engaged citizenry. They come to the meetings. They send emails. They make phone calls, that sort of thing. So, you know, I am reluctant to, you know, we're going to table this, but I'm kind of reluctant to vote on this without hearing from more people. You know, so I wish more people had been here to comment on this issue. However...
 On the flip side of that, I've been to county meetings where you, however many issues there are on the agenda, they give you like 15 minutes to bum rush the podium and everybody makes their comments like whatever, whatever. They're not in any order. They don't call people up after they've read the item. You just approach it all 15 minutes and if there's 10 people in front of you and they all want to talk on one thing, you may not get to speak at all.
 I think that's, you know, we don't want to do that. But I also feel like, you know, two minutes taken off this time, I don't really see that ruining democracy. Yeah.
 But, you know, I do want to hear from the public. You know, so I'm hoping we will have some more commentary on this and, you know, get a little more input. You know, I just don't, I don't think that, you know, I can say what I want to say in three minutes. So. Yeah.
 Pretty much. And for Mr. Brashears, I read your email, and I wanted to say I don't think it's wise to give everybody three minutes and then chop it down to two and a half because those people that have waited there all night are going to be angry. So I don't think that's the best solution either. So anyway, I just look forward to hearing from everybody else. Thank you. Okay. Please. Thank you.
 I want to thank Mr. Brashears for his analysis. That was great. That was very insightful where you could see different trends, and that was great to really put it in perspective. So I appreciate that. I am a little concerned about your suggestion to reduce from five minutes to two and a half minutes because the outcome I could see with that is that we would rearrange or jockey issues.
 though maybe the ones that were most contentious to the very end so that there would be a reduced opportunity for people to speak so I Am NOT supportive of that idea. I like the concept, but I don't think that that would work very well On our end I think that we when we go to agenda session and also city staff could really look and identify issues where we think there's going to be a lot of public input and maybe spread those out a little bit better and
 clutter so that maybe we can manage some of these things so that we're not here till midnight. Sometimes we can't figure out really what's going to have a lot of public comment or not. So there are those kinds of issues, but other ones like the parking deck, we know that we're going to have a lot of discussion about that. The entertainment district, when that comes back up, I anticipate we'll have a lot of discussion.
 maybe we maybe on our end we could do a better job with that and maybe move a few of these items that um to consent when it's possible to the consent agenda when we know that there's really not not going to be an issue what I would what I would suggest a couple of things to Councilmember Petty
 is that if we are gonna alter, if we do decide to go down that road and alter the time that citizens could speak, that we match that up with the same limit that we have as city council members. Let's have some parity here. So if you got, if the public only gets three minutes, city council members should only get three minutes. Let's have some equity here. And then the second suggestion I would have is that,
 You know, we've got a whole lot of suggestions on the table about this. If we could have those listed separately, so maybe, for example, maybe the city council doesn't like the suggestion of the 10-minute limit for the applicant but likes another portion of this change that we're discussing. If those could be really identified separately so we could vote on those separately instead of all bundled in a big package –
 I would certainly appreciate that.
 Would ask if we could hold it for another another two weeks so that we do get more public engagement Tonight's kind of a bad night I think people are watching the election results and maybe that's why they're not here So we could hear about hear from the public a little bit more before it sit to ordinance review So those are my suggestions. Thank you. Okay, son. I
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm definitely interested in having this tabled. I've already received lots of email, so I want to let people know that we do hear you. We are always listening. I get the emails. I get the voicemails. There's more opportunity than just the five minutes at the mic. And I, for myself, always try to balance the way that's most –
 for people to interact, you know, because some people cannot make it to these meetings, be it childcare or work. So I don't weigh any more...
 an input from an email or a phone or speaking more than another input to me all of those inputs are equally important and honestly the more succinct the more I can understand what people are saying to me I really want to listen like I'm really trying to understand what you're saying to me
 Sometimes it gets a little bit cloudy. So I kind of feel like when I heard the three-minute opportunity, which I'm still taking input on, the first thing I thought, well, that sounds great. You know, people will be able to say, okay, I have three points, three minutes. These are the main points of why I'm for this. These are the three reasons I am against this. And I feel like having some more structure to that would be great.
 And then I guess also I would say, I feel like there was another point that I was going to give. I can't think what it is, but my email, my phone number is on the city's website. Please reach out to me for that from there and also come and speak. And I'm looking forward to hearing more input. Okay.
 Thank you. I'm actually really excited to see this coming forward. We spend a lot of late nights here and, you know, I've been at work since 8 a.m. this morning and it's really hard these long days. And I'll be back at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning to do this. And I saw recently at the parking deck arts corridor discussion, several people who had come here specifically to speak about that, that left around 11th.
 and did not have an opportunity to weigh in on the issue. Like Sonia said, I get the emails and the letters, and I read every one of them. I don't have a chance to respond to them, but I do read them, and that's a great way to get more extensive feedback to the council. But I feel like a lot of the five minutes, there are people that come and present opinions, and there are people that come and present facts and new information. And when we see someone who's presenting,
 facts and new information, I think we've been great. We have a great track record of suspending the rules and allowing them to continue to speak. And I'll continue to support that. Regarding the second portion of doing three readings, I actually agree with Mr. Tonneson about reserving that for unanimous votes to go ahead and forward that to the third reading. But a lot of the times, we can't put...
 ordinances on consent. We have to have those through the three readings. And, you know, that gets really exhausting when we have utility easement vacations and such that are really administrative procedures that it would be nice to be able to expedite. So I support the spirit of this ordinance and look forward to working it out to make it work for everyone. Okay. Kyle. Sounds like we're going to get to talk about this more, so I will...
 We'll not go on too long about it, but I do remember what it's like to be on that side of the podium and there are bright lights and 8 9 10 11 12 13 people up here staring down at you and it can be a little intimidating So I understand why sometimes folks get a little rattled and they're not as concise as as might be helpful so I I'm a little hesitant to to shorten their time just because I
 I remember that feeling of watching the timer tick down, and that can be a distraction. I think I was actually standing back by the door when the five-minute rule was imposed, and I think Mr. Tonneson may have been at the podium. That was the 10-hour meeting. And that was a three-minute rule, and he had already finished his presentation, but there were like 200 people waiting when the city council decided we wouldn't be able to hear everybody.
 And so we made a three-minute rule and still the meeting lasted 445 minutes. That's exactly right. I was going to bring that up before we ended up our cheery conversation here. Yeah, I was there till the end of it. But at that moment, I was sitting there looking at my notes, scratching stuff out, trying to figure out what would fit in the new time limit. And I...
 appreciate that time limit because as Meetings went on it did did help me focus But one thing I noticed from mr. Brashear's data the number of four and five hour meetings have actually increased since that night and
 when it was open, free-for-all, talk till you were done, I wonder if people didn't wrap up quicker than watching their time and knowing how much longer they could keep going. I ran the – I told them to move it along usually a few times when we'd get a certain time. But when the five-minute rule came in, I just thought, well, we'll just work with that five-minute rule and that –
 But I think it has become increasingly common that every speaker consumes their five minutes. I should note for the record, though, the five-minute rule didn't start in 2014. That was the first three-minute rule. Then we didn't do anything for years, and then we started getting long meetings again, and that's when the five-minute rule came. Thanks for the clarification. That moment sticks in memories. So for that reason, I'm...
 trying to keep an open mind on this but i will definitely want to make sure that we can find a way to streamline those folks who need a few more minutes and and not totally interrupt their thought process a planning commission has a three minute limit and
 frequently people who are asking you know how do you have any advice on on making our remarks and I find that they are looking forward to coming to us and talking and not feeling like they have to rattle off their bullet points and not forget anything because their time's going to run out before they finish so I look forward to dealing with this later okay more
 Since I talked earlier, I'm going to be brief. First of all, I think if we looked at the meetings before the five-minute limit and after the five-minute limit, that would be a more fair comparison. I can only speak from my own experience when I decided to run for public office, and I knew that I would be inconvenienced, and I knew that my private time away from here was going to be more restricted and that I would have to balance that. So it was not a surprise.
 When I got on city council and we had some long meetings, it happens, but it does not happen that often. I was going to mention the planning commission also. I don't know if other members of the council hear this, but I hear a lot of resentment with the restricted time at the planning commission. They feel like they were rushed. They feel like that they didn't have the opportunity before.
 And no one should feel rushed when they have a valid point to represent their point of view. So that's, you know, I have...
 Would it be appropriate to go ahead and request that this be sent to ordinance review and tabled, or how would I do that? Well, it can certainly be tabled. Usually it is the ordinance review committee that decides to take up some issue rather than –
 councilman petty did to go to ordinance review we haven't had a meeting this yet this year yet and of course the first meeting is when you elect a chairperson so I can't ask the chairperson what were you the chairperson last year well you're still in then so it's up to Kyle then to schedule a meeting
 And the first meeting you might get replaced, but you're still the chair right now. And so I agree also with Alderman Petty. It was called the Ordinance Review Committee. It started off as a noise ordinance committee. And then we saw that we really needed that for complex issues, but it wasn't meant to not be able to cover a resolution like this because this is legislation like you're talking about.
 Okay. Matthew. I guess that's a no, right? Okay. Well, ask Kyle, and if Kyle wants to schedule it, I'm with you. Hey, Kyle. Hi, Mark. Over here. How do you feel about this going to the...
 I think that's a fantastic idea. I would ask for maybe some parameters because I think there's a risk there that we start looking at our rules and procedures and Once the hoods up who knows what I'll get monkeyed with so it might be good to have some Some sense of where the guardrails are on this discussion, but I think To hear you make some Committee meeting Thank you
 well first i just like to thank all the members of the council for keeping it under three minutes so far uh mostly under two minutes yeah so i would prefer this go to the ordinance review committee as a member i'd really like to see it there and in terms of uh guardrails for discussion i think there are the contents of the ordinance itself the two amendments that have been uh informally offered from both yourself and council member turk and uh this other suggestion
 that perhaps council members should also be limited in their time. I feel like that's probably enough for an hour's worth of discussion if you run your meetings and your signature efficiency way, assuming you're elected chair again.
 If there are other items maybe that we want to take up maybe we need to have a second meeting and with that I'd make a motion that we table this item Not for the next meeting but for the following meeting to give the ordinance review committee ample time to meet discuss in the city attorney's office to draft any Legislation that may be recommended by the committee I would just I'm gonna second that motion but I
 terms of parameters for the ordinance review discussion I would like this really to focus on balancing the need for efficient meetings with adequate citizen input and I think if we stay focused on those issues that that we can stay within the parameters of what we're trying to accomplish here
 Anybody else with a motion to set a tree set? I would just ask that we hear this one more time before it goes to ordinance review. I really would like to hear more information from the public before you all take it out and discuss it. So that would be my request.
 Yes, I think even if we're only going to table for two weeks, I don't think it's necessary for the ordinance review committee to wait. My reasoning with all due respect is that the ordinance review committees are open to the public themselves, and if we require more discussion or there's substantial uptick in input after it goes to the ordinance review committee, I think that we can talk about tabling it for a second time so that we can have that third meeting. Okay. Kyle? Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
 Well, being I run these little meetings, I would like to weigh in here just a tiny tad. I have some concerns about, in running a meeting, probably the first time I tell a council member that they've spoken long enough up here. I'm sure I will probably hear it. Somebody will probably tell the mayor that, well...
 that you all are also elected by the people just like I am. And I see that on the horizon, that's just me. On the unanimous consent, and that's fine, that's good. But that would mean, and I'm just getting clarification here which I'm sure it's gotta go to the ordinance review and get some clarification. That would mean if one council member, one,
 Decided that that was not going to happen And then I assume that you're going to do a motion and a second vote of the council Are we got to work all that out? Yes, that's the way it's drafted Now it says by unanimous consent or majority vote of the council members present and voting the time limitation may be altered for the speaker and so you would you would first ask and
 Is that all right? Does everybody agree that they can have more time? If somebody says, well, I don't, then you say, well, there's been a request for more time, and the council needs to vote. So we would fall back on what we're doing now? Yes. Okay, that's good. I just wanted to be sure that's okay, sir.
 I really wanted the unanimous consent to apply only to the three readings, not to overturning someone's three minutes. I think the process we have in place right now is working really well with that. But on the three readings, that I do feel like we should get unanimous consent, just like we would do to put something on the consent agenda, even though we really legally can't do that with ordinances. Okay, but I think Kyle was talking about, you were talking about the three minutes.
 Rule two right instead of getting a motion and saying we just get a unanimous vote yes, what what kit just described is what I had in mind as far as Quickly letting someone resume their thoughts unless someone objected and then taking a vote And keep this in mind council is that these rules and procedures that you lay out is for me to run this meeting and whatever You come up with
 That's why the first of every year, and the Municipal League will tell you this, the first of the year you ask the council if they want to change the rules of order and procedure. And if they do, they change it then, but that doesn't mean that you've got to wait all the way until next year to change it. But what I'm saying is I hope a majority of this council will approve these orders, these order and procedures, so I'll know how to run this meeting instead of me having to figure out at a meeting what to do here. So, yeah.
 I think it's a good idea to send it to the ordinance review. I agree with that. And also, I just need to know what kind of hand I need to play here out of you all, and I'll run this meeting any way you want to. But I will say that about the three-minute rule, the first time that was imposed was during the civil rights ordinance. That's right. And it was about 9.30, 10 o'clock at night. The kid said something like, we've got all these people waiting.
 Now, we need to limit the time. So that was the first time I said if everybody would make it, if somebody would make a motion in a second, we'll put it on a three-minute time limit. Unfortunately, during that time, we did not have a timer. So I had to watch that clock and make sure everybody got their three minutes in, and it still went to 4.30 in the morning. And that's what three-minute time limits are.
 i just want everybody to be aware of that i've been in a few of those didn't you have a lobbying trip the very next morning i went to jonesboro the next day and so we drove to jones i think you went home for about 30 minutes and then you went to john i fell asleep in the chair and for about 30 minutes and then loaded in the car and away we went that was a you know that's a lengthy little drive too so it was a while but i'm just saying you know when you when you do talk about
 The limit on minutes we did do that about 930 10 o'clock then and that thing still went to But at least at that point everybody that really wanted to could say something what they wanted to say and before that the first three speakers had taken one hour and
 Because I was watching the clock. Then there's that. And so this way, everybody who really wanted to talk was able to come and talk and give their, express their opinions to the city council. And I think if we do something like we go so long and everybody gets three minutes and then suddenly after a while I just say, oh, okay, now everybody gets one minute or two minutes. I'm telling you, they're going to get to that microphone and they're not going to appreciate it. The public is not going to have that.
 I'm just telling you from being around the block here a little bit too. So those are just some of my input as it goes to ordinance review. And I think we have a motion to second Senator Wright to ordinance review. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Okay, Mayor, this has been tabled for two meetings, so not the next meeting, but the meeting after that. It will be back before you, and during that period of time, the Ordinance Review Committee with Chairman Kyle here will schedule a meeting, and we'll take all your comments. I don't know if we established any guardrails, but at least we have some places to start. I just wanted to clarify, will that be the March 17th meeting or the April 7th? April.
 okay what announcements i think concludes our business what announcements do we have mayor i have several announcements um i want to begin with a little bit of discussion or just clarification for council members in the public who may be curious about the city's protocols for emergency response in general and the kinds of things that we may be doing uh
 coordinating with our health officials in the community. I just wanted to go ahead and let you know several things, from the granular to the more general. The city coordinates with Washington Regional, the Washington County and Washington Regional state and county health departments in this way.
 The Northwest Arkansas Health Coalition meets monthly to discuss regional response protocols and current threats. The coalition is made up of health care facilities, ambulance services, and health departments from the region. Central EMS fulfills the city's emergency support function and public health and medical services, and they are representatives in the coalition.
 Additionally, our police and fire departments are currently working with the Department of Emergency Management for Washington County and the University of Arkansas and have been for some time to help prepare and educate emergency responders specifically on the virus today that is of concern.
 Representatives from all of the regional health care facilities, ambulance services, and local emergency planning commission have been involved. Updates are being put out daily by the Arkansas Department of Health and the Center for Disease Control so we can closely monitor the status of any outbreaks. In general terms, thank you.
 The city has quarterly training on emergency management all senior staff are Certified in various levels of the national incident management system and we practice incident response in these quarterly trainings and
 issues that we have And then finally just for the City Council's to recall those of you have not been on the council since 2002 the council established a disaster recovery fund and
 And there's a $3 million balance in the fund and policies to that every year, and so there are protocols in place for the city council to address the use of that fund if you also do. So that's the general discussion about how we handle our protocols for emergency response. And if there are any questions, I'll probably need to coordinate with Chief Harden and our police, but that's how we handle it right now. So I hope to give...
 the public some comfort that there are people in charge. Finally, on other general announcements, the Fayetteville, our city is now offering community garden plot registration through March 7th. These are all on the website and further details you can read about on the news flashes on the website.
 Coming up pretty quickly is the new Midtown Trail Corridor Design Charette Workshop. That will be March 11th with a presentation March 12th. We have a speak-up page also if you're not able to come to the March 11th presentation so people can weigh in. And that is for the design of the new Midtown Trail Corridor, which is the planning that's going on for the corridor at –
 The Porter Road, Dean Street, Garland Avenue, Sycamore, Poplar, and Woodland. And that is one of the bond projects. The public meeting will be March 11th from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at a drop-in style workshop at the Trinity United Methodist Church. So I wanted to let people know about that. Also, moving on, we have...
 Everybody's been waiting for the announcement about the bulky waste spring cleanups. We have them all laid out on the website beginning March 14th, March 14th, March 21st, April 18th, and April 25th. So different ward locations for those. I've already mentioned this but I will again. We are offering the bounty for removal of Bradford pear trees or bush honeysuckle.
 And the call for nominations for the Fatal Historic Preservation Awards is open until April 2nd. And that would be that. Thank you. Okay. Any other announcements? Okay. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.