I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of March the 1st, 2022. Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Whitaker? Here. Scroggins? Scroggins. Bunch? Here. Bunch?
 Mayor Jordan. Here, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, good evening, everyone. The first order of business, we have two walk-ons tonight. First.
 Oh, you want to do Paul and then the walk-ons? Okay, Paul, go ahead. Paul's going to give the monthly finance report. Thank you, Mayor and Council. As the Council will remember, normally I give the sales tax report at the agenda session. However, I didn't have the numbers at that point in time. So I'm going to spend a little time talking about sales tax that we received. And I'm going to give a report on January, which is period one of 2022.
 The sales tax collections actually were for December, and they were some of the strongest collections that I had seen since I've been here for December. We're up 11.9% for the city one penny. For the county, we're up 22%. So overall, we were up 16% for sales tax collected for December, applicable to 2022. So we're off to a very good start on sales tax. When we look at the other surrounding areas,
 we can see that everyone in the area did well. Again, we were up to the prior. We were up 11.9%. I think I said 9.7%. That was actually the budget. Prior year, when we look at last year, we were up almost 12%. The Rogers was up 14% for the period.
 Bentonville was up 10% and Springdale was up 22.3% for the period. So we all did very very well and those numbers I'm doing ours as comparison the last year the last set I gave you So when we look at the overall revenue for the month of January, we're again very strong We're starting to come back now sales tax As I said was up
 12%, 16% if we actually account sales tax that we get from the county and the city sales tax for the period. When we analyze the makeup of those sales tax, what we see that's very, very encouraging is the hotel and motel restaurants are coming back very strong. They were very strong this period, one of the strongest periods we've seen in quite a while, when compared to last. Also, retail trade was up strongly for the period.
 What was interesting to me was when we looked at internet sales, internet sales was 4% up by 4%. That's roughly our average if we go back to a 20-year period. And it's starting to level off, I believe. But again, the restaurants and the lodging were up strong compared to last year, strong compared to the budget, as was retail trade in general. So things are looking up. Look at franchise fees were up.
 Licenses and permits were up. We're doing well in building permits for the first month, very early. Fees and fines from the courts are down again, because courts are not processing as many citations as before. Interest rates are down, but we don't get that much from interest rates anyway. But interest rates are very, very low right now.
 When we look at all in all, the city's general fund was up 15% for the period for January, and that's very strong. Certainly very happy with those results. When we go on to look at the street fund, street fund was up 30%, over 30% compared to last year. That represents motor fuel taxes, sales tax, half a penny on the gasoline taxes, and a wholesale tax
 that we get for the sale of gasoline to wholesale users. Also a portion of that which was up is the county road tax, which we're going to turn back on that too. So street fund was very strong. That's good. We're going to be coming forward at the next step
 at the next agenda session of council meeting we're going to ask for uh to increase that budget by a couple hundred thousand dollars to get more salt fill us the salt storage area because it comes in short supply when the snow hits and that'll get us ready for anything coming uh this winter but we're in good shape to do that at this point in time when i analyze the parking fund
 Parking fund actually was up 60% compared to last year. So we're very strong. It's starting to come back. We're seeing parking come back. We're seeing business activity come back to the Dixon Street area and the downtown area. So that's very encouraging from us. HMR taxes were up 30% compared to last year. Again, this was very strong. So we're seeing that come back. As we talked about, we're coming back in the restaurant, hotel, motel, restaurant
 receipts. So that did very well. When we look at the enterprise funds, we can look at
 Recycling and trash collection, recycling and trash collection is up about 3% so far. We're seeing commercial come back a little bit as we looked at it last year. We saw residential was strong all year and commercial was down a little bit as commercial activity had declined, but that seems to be coming back a little bit. So we're up about 3% for the recycling and trash collection fund. When we look at water and sewer, water and sewer billings were up 13%.
 Water usage alone was 8.5%. So we're seeing a lot more water usage. We're seeing more customers. Again, that's Billings. We do have a substantial amount of backlog of bad debt at this point in time, or uncollectible. I'll say we haven't written it off bad debt yet. But we're working with our customers and working through that and through the period where we extended help to those customers
 so they would have the necessary water to meet the COVID health requirements. When we look at the airport, the airport sales of gasoline was up. Fuel sales were up 47%, so that's continuing into this year and that's very good. Again, as we analyze and we look at the airport, remember we've got a lot of very, very large projects going at the airports
 resurfacing is between $6 and $7 million, federally funded almost all of that. And so we're moving ahead at the airport, and we're solving a lot of infrastructure issues that we need to at this point in time. So fuel sales were strong there. All of the enterprise funds were strong. All in all, it was a very, very positive period. We're off to a good start for the year
 for the new year. Again, I'll caution everybody as I always do. It's not going to go on forever, but it's very positive right now. We're looking forward to increased tax collections as we go forward in the year. And with that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report?
 Thank you, Paul. Thank you. Okay, we have two walk-ons tonight. The first one, I just received this probably a half an hour ago, is a resolution to request that the administration delay the deadline for its application process for American Rescue Plan Act funding for nonprofits and conduct a city council input session. And this was brought by Council Member Jones, and so I will...
 I need a motion and a second to suspend the rules so this can get on the agenda. Yes, I need a motion and a second to suspend the rules and add it to the agenda. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to add the walk-on resolution to the agenda. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Warren?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And since the public hadn't seen this really, Mayor, I thought I'd go ahead and read the bottom of it. It's pretty short. Please. Whereas some city council members would like to have additional input through a work session on the current administration process for non-profit organizations to request American Rescue Plan Act funding from the city of Fayetteville.
 And whereas to accommodate this work session and any possible changes in the application requirements and process, the City Council requests that the application deadline be extended into April. Now therefore be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby request that the Mayor delay the current application process for non-profit organizations to request grants into April of 2022 and conduct a work session for those Council members who wish to share ideas and have input on how the American Rescue Plan Act funds should be distributed and how the application process should be administered.
 Okay, so I want to be sure I've got this right. We want what Council Member Jones is asking is that we delay the applications until April and that we have a working session, input session with the City Council. And that's what I understand. I think maybe Council Member Jones can fully explain this. I don't have any problem with that. Yes, go ahead, DeAndre.
 Yes. Good evening, Mayor Jordan and fellow city council members. And Kit, thank you so much for helping me with this. I have spoken with various nonprofits and individuals concerning the ARPA funding. And due to the current strains that nonprofits are experiencing, I'm going to be talking to some of the nonprofits that are involved in the ARPA funding.
 I would like to take this opportunity to present this walk on agenda item. COVID-19 has impacted minority communities far more than others. And majority of the local nonprofits that I've spoken with have worked diligently to support those who have been impacted by COVID-19. However, the following current guidelines
 Projects must be provided by a qualified nonprofit that have been in existence for a minimum of three years, must have a minimum funding request of $50,000, and the American Rescue Plan Act funding will be provided on an expenditure reimbursement basis only are viewed as barriers for those who have been more severely impacted by COVID. And according to the federal guidelines,
 fighting the pandemic and supporting families and businesses struggling with its public health and economic impacts, maintaining vital public services, even amid declines in revenue resulting from the crisis, and building a stronger, more resilient and equitable recovery by making investments that support long-term growth and opportunities, what these current nonprofits are working to do. And I
 So yes, I am asking for the city council to extend the deadline so we can look at how this can be more equitable to those nonprofits who have been supporting those communities who are historically oppressed. Okay. What questions do we have? Susan, do you want to?
 I believe Paul is going to explain at least the rescue plan terms that we as a staff have proposed to work on. Yeah, and keep in mind, counsel, you all will be ultimately making decisions where this money goes. So however you want us to distribute it, I'm good with that. Go ahead. Sure. I'd like to make a couple of comments. One, the American Rescue Act.
 money in the legislation and the rules associated with us with it have been frustrating at best we just got the final rules in right around at the end of the year and of course we've had them for over a year and made some expenditures already so sorting out what is acceptable what is not acceptable what's within the grant guidelines has been a difficult task for us here at staff essentially
 The act provides for two things. And in the case of what DeAndre is saying, it is true. It provides that either we have subrecipients, that we treat as subrecipients. They have to meet the grant guidelines. They have to make reports to us on where they're spending the money and going proactive and forward on how they're going to help the community and get through this stuff. That's the basis we've been going on. They would have to report to us.
 We would evaluate whether or not they were doing it. And we have to evaluate under those circumstances. We're required to evaluate whether or not we feel that they can meet those qualifications. They have to agree to meet all the terms and conditions of that grant coming through federal funding through the Department of Treasury. So they've got to meet all those grant requirements if they're subrecipients. That's the safest way we go.
 It also did provide for direct funding to beneficiaries for lost revenue. That we can do. Guidelines aren't the same, but we don't know what they do with the money. We just transfer the money to them
 assume they've made the expenditures, ask for some information, qualifying. What qualified them for that? Where did they spend the money? Why do they need it? OK, those are two different criteria. We took the safest criteria going proactive, saying we're going to grant up to subgrantees who are going to be here, who can qualify, and who can meet the guidelines and provide services to our citizens. So that's the direction we went.
 we are more than happy to discuss all these issues with the council at open meetings but I would like to broaden that if we're going to do that let's discuss the expenditure all all the ARPA funding Lionel at State of the City outlined what his interests were his interests were workforce development and
 His interests were infrastructure. And his other infrastructure was for nonprofits, being this part of it. So we're more than happy to have the discussions, have the council weigh in, tell us what directions to go, tell us what they support and what they don't support. Remember, at this point in time,
 this particular discussion and the non-profile, because you haven't funded that yet. You haven't appropriated money to do that. We have to do that. But if you want to go and look at this and get in more in depth, we're certainly open to do that.
 We have no issue with that, if that's the direction that the council wants to go. And as of now, I'll just report to you that we have appropriated $2 million of the funding we received, which is pretty near $9 million. We've got $6.9 million in funding. So I guess those are my only comments, Lionel, if you have anything to add. Well, the only thing I want to add, I had three buckets when we started this, was economic and environmental and social.
 and how are y'all, I was going to leave it to the council to decide how they want to distribute that. So we've tried to put a few guidelines in there, but it was...
 Those have always been the main buckets. Yeah, so I'll go ahead and just add, just so that everybody is familiar. A week ago last Friday, we issued the media release that identified all the instructions and where the portal was to be found. And then last week, we spent some time visiting with some of the potential applicants who had questions and concerns that
 Councilmember Jones has brought up about how they can be Identified as eligible through the rules that we set up and so we've been trying to work with them to help them identify how they can describe themselves and
 so that their issues are documented and we would bring all of them to you to discuss. But we, like Paul said, we'll be happy to have a workshop for y'all to weigh in on the rules. It just, we did our best, we gave you all a preview of what we were thinking at an agenda session about a month ago, then we developed our portal according to that preview, as Mayor said, and then we launched and now we're ready for y'all's feedback.
 I think either of us are happy to answer any questions if you have some. Yes. Paul and Susan, thank you so much for that. The biggest concern that I have and that others have expressed, the nonprofits who need it the most don't even meet those basic guidelines. So if you're going to, when it comes to evaluating because of the nonprofits,
 who service those individuals who need it the most, because they don't meet those basic qualifications, then it's still not equitable. Paul, I have a question. If what, DeAndre, if you're talking about people that don't meet or organizations that don't meet the guidelines, Paul, don't they have to meet certain guidelines before they receive funding?
 Well, they do. I tried to discuss with you what the two guidelines were. One, they're a subgrantee. And if they're a subgrantee, they've got to meet terms and conditions and agree to that. We have to somehow assure ourselves that they have the capability of doing that. And that's why some of the rules were decided their way. The other thing it does provide for is it does provide for reimbursement for impacted
 uh impacted institutions time for profits etc but in those particular cases they file they file what they uh what they have and what they've done then it's up to the city to evaluate that now that'll always can be in a question later because we don't have the data exactly where everything was spent etc they don't agree to meet the terms and conditions so those are two options
 And if the city council wants to go in that direction, we're open to listen to it. Again, like I said, we made the decision we thought was safest. We made the decision we thought would be best to make sure that that money was spent effectively. But we're more than happy to change and look at other directions if the council wishes to, as long as they're within the allowable, within the guidelines.
 Paul, thank you so much for sharing that. And I would like to say, as it relates to the barriers, those guidelines that you mentioned, they don't have to be in place.
 as it relates to the nonprofit that has been in existence for a minimum of three years and having a minimum funding request of $50,000. So that's what I was referring to. We understand the guidelines and those nonprofits from what I understand, they are aware of the federal guidelines. But when we look at the federal guidelines, they do not reflect again,
 The projects must be provided by a qualified nonprofit that has been in existence for a minimum of three years and having a minimum funding request of $50,000. Some of these nonprofits have only been in existence maybe for two years. And some of these nonprofits became a nonprofit because of COVID. So when we, again, making it equitable, these are barriers
 to those for those groups who need it the most and who have been more severely impacted. So these guidelines that we have, they're not guidelines from the federal government. And so that's what the concern is. I thought I was clear when I said there were two options. You're right. The guidelines for being in
 in existence for three years is not specifically a federal guideline there is a guideline for reimbursement again as susan and i both said council member jones if you want to look at those we're more than happy for a meeting we're more happy to discuss it with the council
 This seems like a good discussion at the input session. I believe that there should be some guidelines. There's reasons that you don't want to give money out to organizations that haven't set a precedent yet. And I think that's a good reason to vote for this input session so that we can have those conversations.
 And I would like to be clear, the nonprofits that I spoke with, they're not concerned about guidelines, having guidelines. They understand the regulations. They're just wanting to make sure that they are equitable and that they are helping those individuals who have been impacted by COVID, uh,
 in the worst way. So they fully understand that the regulations, they've read those federal guidelines and they understand them according to what they told me. They're just wanting to make sure that they are equitable.
 I think it would be really helpful to have this input session. So I hope we can schedule that and so that we can make sure that we get this, these ARPA funds distributed correctly as they were designed to be distributed by the, from the federal government and also ensure that we meet all the federal guidelines that are out there. So I would really support an input session.
 Andrea, I have a question. Could you provide an example of one of the nonprofits that you've been speaking to?
 Absolutely. I've spoken to several of them. And one that comes to mind, I spoke to Stacey Harper. I've spoken to Lakeisha Harper. I've spoken to Solomon Birchfield. And they're all saying the same thing, that the population, the individuals that they serve, they are not, these guidelines are
 Currently, they don't support, they don't help those groups. And the bigger challenge is a lot of these churches and other groups, their resources are almost depleted. And so this is one of the only opportunities that these nonprofits will have to be strengthened.
 Hey, DeAndre, you know, some of those names you mentioned are familiar to me, but I can't quite place the nonprofit that they are associated with. What are the organizations that the people you just mentioned are associated with? There's absolutely, there's food insecurity and a lot of them support groups who have
 experiencing issues before COVID and now these communities are really being impacted. African Americans, Hispanic, New Beginning, homelessness. And so that's what we're looking at. That's what, that's those groups that I've been having a conversation with. They really, they are committed to working with groups who were
 historically impacted and now with COVID again, it's even worse. I know I sound like a broken record, but that's been the ongoing conversation. And some of them I believe are here tonight and I'm sure that if they can, then they will speak and they will kind of give a, they will provide a better breakdown of what they have been experiencing.
 But I was kind of wondering what the names of the organizations were, because I knew the names of the individuals because I recognize them. But the organizations, I don't know which they were, but that's OK. We'll get to that later, I guess. New Beginnings, White House Solution, Nate Walls and Secondhand Smoke, the Arkansas Justice Coalition. Those are just a few of them.
 Okay, thank you very much. I appreciate that. Absolutely. If I may ask, I'm familiar with HUD, I'm familiar with CDBG. I'm speculating, but I'm assuming rather than starting with a blank slate, we might have looked at some of those program constraints
 and guidelines for evaluating applicants and kind of carried those over. I'm not familiar with the strings attached to ARPA other than it's money coming through the federal government. So I know there's ferocious audit requirements for us.
 and that you're simply attempting to safeguard the expenditure of funds to ensure we account for it correctly and remain in good graces. Is that a pretty good guess on my part? Yes, it is. Yes, we looked at the HUD guidelines. Of course, we have one of the people on our team who's been reviewing this is Yolanda Fields, who runs our CDC programs here at the city.
 The guidelines given for the ARPA funds come from the Department of Treasury, who normally does not have set guidelines because they're not normally a granting facility. So these are rather broad. I think putting it down, and we're more than willing to discuss this, it's either we're going to reimburse
 something that's happened we're going to go forward and want to give me criteria going forward to see what in fact is happening with the funds and how it's serving the citizens now we're more than happy to discuss that with the council if they if they want to and look at that and look at individuals at that point so again like I said we're not we're not
 negatively saying we don't want to discuss it. We're just saying we have a couple options. Either you reimburse for whatever may have been done, and I'm sure a lot of these groups that Alderman Jones is referring to have done work. I mean, I'm not doubting that at all. The issue is, if we're going to go forward and we're going to have it prospective, then we have a record of what is being done so we can report that to the federal government.
 Paul, thank you so much. I have a question. Is the reimbursement, is that for the nonprofit or is that for the city? The reimbursement? Well, there are reimbursements two ways. Number one, it allows the reimbursement to the city for revenue losses. It also provides for reimbursement to nonprofits for revenue losses also. So it could apply to either.
 OK. So it doesn't have to be so the nonprofits don't have to be, the nonprofits don't have to reimburse, right? If we go to the method where they are in fact where they're beneficiaries, which means now we're reimbursing, they have to have some documentation of what we're reimbursing, some evidence of that. But then they're not required because it's not prospective going forward.
 Does that answer your question, DeAndre? I think so. I was under the impression, though, that the city has to be, the nonprofits, that it doesn't have to be disseminated in that form. That's what I am. That's what I'm.
 I'm not sure if that's the right way to do it. I'm not sure if that's the right way to do it. I thought that's what I read. I could be wrong. But I thought that I'm thinking maybe that's just the way the city wants to do it. And if so, because I don't think that's a federal guideline. So if that's what the city is wanting to do, then I think that we, again, that should be part of the broader discussion. Okay. I guess somehow I'm not being clear. There were two ways and two things provided for.
 Once you disperse funds to a beneficiary, it's for essentially funds that have been done for impoverished areas, et cetera, things of that which have been done. That does not have an ongoing reporting requirement. If we treat it and we treat non-for-profits and make them subgrantee, then they're subject to the distribution going forward.
 They have reporting requirements to us, and we must ensure that they're capable of carrying out all of the guidelines of the Treasury Department. So there are two methods. We've certainly read these extensively, and they're open to interpretation, but there are those two different methods. Is that helpful? I understand that, but...
 I thought that that was after they received the funds, not before. And I'm also looking at what other cities are doing, and I don't think other cities are doing it in that manner. I could be wrong, but from my research, looking at other cities and other communities, I don't think that they're doing it in that form.
 So I would suggest that we, I think clearly there's a lot of questions here and maybe we could schedule a meeting maybe we could. I mean I guess I could make a motion to approve the resolution.
 and us schedule a meeting in the next month and a half or so. Well, counsel, let me put you at ease. If you want to extend the application for whatever period of time you want to extend the application process, I'm more than willing to do that. If you want to have a meeting or two meetings or three meetings,
 I'm willing to do that. I mean, if you want to have a meeting where everybody lines up and comes in and presents whatever they think they need, I'm willing to do that. I just need a little direction on where you want to go, how you want to do it.
 i think i thought i heard from what council member jones originally asked for a council member workshop yeah so council could provide input to the process that's what i heard and you can take that input from the citizen however y'all want to do this because at the end of the day you will make the decision on how the money is dispersed so we'll work on a workshop mayor yeah i'm good with that and then i mean that's what i'm hearing from the council anyway
 well yeah i mean provided you all pass the resolution yeah that's fine with me deandre i mean we'll extend the deadline how long do you want to extend the deadline for uh i'm thinking from what from what i can gauge probably until april 30th okay i'm good with that i mean i think we have to have the money spent by 2024. i'm sure we can work that in
 I know we have that skill set to do that. So you want to set a deadline. I'm sorry. I need to take some public comment. I'm working with what the council was talking about here. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration.
 don't engage anyone public or any council members stay on the topic and please no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have participating by zoom Lance Reed okay go ahead Lance
 Good evening, Council members. Thank you for having me. I'm Lance with the Black Action Collective. And so I want to address the ARPA guidelines. And as they are presented, they are presented in a manner that's not how they should be read. It is...
 The reimbursement is from a city perspective from the federal government. If they had given out, gave the nonprofits the funds and the funds had not been, they hadn't received them from the federal government yet. It's not for the nonprofits to provide a reimbursement over something. Yes, the guidelines are going to be there. They provide the reports.
 After they have received the funds and they provide those reports every month. That's how the city of hot Springs is doing it. That's how a lot of cities across the state of Arkansas are doing it. The counties. And so, and then this three year minimum guideline of three year existence that, I mean, what is the purpose of that is not even, I mean,
 there are non-profits that have been founded out of out of as a response to COVID um and so then they are disqualified it's just we need to be thinking about although I understand great well intentions and I appreciate that but that is why it's very essential when we are making these rules and we're doing things that we are looking and making sure that we're looking at things are that are equitable um
 And it's this thing that Fayetteville has this thing about wanting to be equality and equity are two different things. And so, yeah, the equality part that y'all got there, it was great. Thank you for that. But the equity part, we have work to do. So I really support that the city council
 look at this, these guidelines, and it will be very advantageous that the City Council is really in the planning process and a lot of these decision-making process because it seems like there are certain staff members that are going rogue and creating type of guidelines that are not there and interpreting things that are clearly not what they are
 are doing to have some type of power or some type of whatever it is. But that is a disadvantage to the citizens of Fayetteville. And it has been a barrier. And it's something that we really need to be looking at moving forward on how we're going to be working.
 operating from us from the city perspective and from a community perspective of how we are really engaging with the city for things that that community members need and underserved communities say that that Fed they'll say that they support and so these guidelines are I mean
 not what is conducive to what Fabio stands for. And we really need to look at the equity for those marginalized communities that's most affected by COVID and by, and they really need these funds. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? I'm sorry. Monique Jones. Go ahead, Monique.
 Good evening, Monique Jones, Fayetteville, Arkansas. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I am speaking on behalf of the St. James Missionary Baptist Church. I have the same issues that this, the way this was written, there is no D, E, and I, diversity, equity, or inclusion. We say we want to exclude individuals, but Lance is correct that
 This does not even include the organizations that has been supporting this community since the pandemic. And then we want to talk about not just the three years, but that some of these, a lot of nonprofits and faith-based organizations have depleted their funds during this pandemic. And now you say you want me to have capital that's already built up.
 when during a time we've been serving these citizens and the communities with food insecurity, dealing with rental assistance, dealing with anything that they need and rehousing, but then you want me to have the capital still in the bank in order to apply for a grant that's supposed to be to help our citizens throughout our organizations. I'm just confused how
 Is this really your intent to be inclusive of everyone? Or is this written for certain nonprofits and certain organizations to be able to qualify for this grant? And I think I saw, and I could be wrong mayor, that even if the larger organizations
 grab this grant, they can't even sub-grant it out to anyone else. It can only be used by them. So even if they got it and they could use it, they couldn't even sub-grant it to another organization that would be able to help the community. Understanding that if you look at the demographics and you say you want to serve the underserved community, but how are you going to do that if you're not funding non-underserved
 nonprofits and faith-based organizations that are serving your community every single day on the backs of us doing our own fundraising. And this is not, and I wanna be very clear, we're not looking at this grant to be our sole source of income. It just will give us a breath that we, if we could breathe for a minute, because we've been doing this fundraising and doing this work without the support of the city, without the support of the county.
 And we're depleted, we're tired, but this will give us a breath of fresh air to be able to continue to do this work and not have to work so hard
 towards being able to fund the needs to serve our community. Understanding though, what the ask is, is look to see is the way that this grant is written, will it include or will it exclude minorities and marginalized population of your community that need the support, specifically why the ARPA grant was written? We say we want to follow the federal guidelines
 Understand, go back to the standards, read what the Treasury report says, and you tell me that this grant is written to serve every single nonprofit NGO organization that is serving your community right now. It's not.
 It's not. And we're just asking to be treated fairly, to be given the same opportunities. And I want to add the other piece. I want to add the justice piece. Is this a systematic practice that we're going to continue to use to exclude communities of color just because we want to put in rules in place that they may not qualify or they may qualify? But guess what? I'm just going to only allow a few.
 That's not true justice. This is the same system that we've been doing for years that we keep saying coming out of Black History Month that we say that we want to show equity and inclusion towards our community. I'm not sure this shows that as the way this grant is written. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Solomon Birchfield. All right, go ahead.
 Good evening, Marion City Council. I also just want to add my voice to advocate for modifying these criteria. I don't know that I can say anything better than what Monique and Lance just shared. I just know from personal experience this last year and a half, some of the organizations that were literally at people's door with food, boxes of food, meals, people that donated their time.
 and formed nonprofit projects to be able to respond in some of the poorest communities in town, by this criteria would be ineligible to apply for this funding. And these are people that I look up to and admire. I've volunteered in different ways for the different projects. By luck of the draw, the organization that I helped lead, New Beginnings,
 we actually would be eligible, mainly because the umbrella organization that our project is a part of has been in existence for several years doing other smaller projects. But if not for that, then our project also would be ineligible. And I don't want to be eligible if these other partners who work alongside me in some of the hardest hit, some of the poorest areas of our community can't also be eligible for it.
 of the support. So I will keep my comments brief. I'm sensing that there's support from this council to hold a listening session and to take a new look at these criteria. And I hope that they can be modified to be more inclusive. Thank you for that. Thanks, all. Who else? Nobody else ma'am. Okay, who would like to address this and then the council? One came along. Rebecca Scott is on Zoom. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, thank you, city, and thank you, mayor, for letting me speak. I am representing Every Soul Matters. With our grant guidelines, we don't have $50,000 that is not earmarked to have in our bank account in order to apply for this grant. So it's very frustrating on our part to be able to apply for grants that have such a high minimum balance in our bank accounts, right?
 Our other frustration is, is there other grants? Is there other resources that we can look into to apply for? Just looking on the Fayetteville City website, it's hard to navigate to see what grants we really do qualify until you get into it and start digging into it. We would like to be able to
 Jessica Crouch NE ReMEDIES CREATIONS
 It could be for food. It could be for clothing needs, things that they're needing. We're also working on a shower trailer for our unhoused neighbors. And so every bit of money that comes in is going to go right back out the door. So we would love to have some kind of meeting that we can also come in and speak with you about what we do and how we're
 how we do what up how we do what we do and to be able to um find a grant that we can apply for because right now it kind of really restricts us with the minimum balance we just we just don't have it right at this moment thank you for letting me share sure all right who else would like to address us in the chat come on introduce yourself please
 Good evening everyone. My name is Stacy Harper. I am the Executive Director and Founder for the nonprofit organization Lytal Solutions. Thank you guys for letting me speak today. I just want to give you guys just a brief overview of
 our story so you guys can know and understand why it is so important for all of us to sit at the round table and really discuss this thing truly out and come up with a strategic plan on how all organizations, especially black-led organizations, can have funding to continue to support communities in the under-resourced populations here.
 We have covered a massive amount of ground in the community by carrying out strategies and being community conscious and action oriented.
 As a result, we have been able to collaborate with more community partners, increasing the amount of service we offer to children and their families in the under-resourced communities since the beginning of the pandemic. Our strategy has been called Feet on the Street. For two years, we have impacted 15,000 people in...
 WASHINGTON COUNTY AND BENTON COUNTY PROVIDING EXPRESSIVE ART CLASSES, EXERCISE CLASSES FOR CHILDREN IN PERSON AND VIRTUALLY, CAREER READINESS TRAINING WORKSHOPS,
 for kids that are homeless, teens that are on probation, within the juvenile detention centers, and feeding. We have hosted back to school events, Christmas holiday giveaways for families that are in dire need in Washington County. Our impact report is very impressive and it shows that we are determined and dedicated to improve the quality of life for all individuals, especially children here in Northwest Arkansas.
 And I want to talk about the evidence and I had submitted a form to show. So within six years we have been established since 2015. We became a nonprofit organization in 2016. For six years, cumulative, we have made $156,000.
 THAT TOOK US SIX YEARS TO GET TO THAT NUMBER. IN 2016, WE ONLY BROUGHT IN 10,000. 2017, WE BROUGHT IN 28,000. 2018, 20,000. 2019, 31,000. 2020, 14,000. AND 2021 WAS OUR MOST, 51,000. CUMULATIVELY, THAT WAS 156,000 AND SOME CHANGE.
 There's no way that my organization can go up for this funding. And we are in dire need of this funding because we are, like I said, feet on the street. And we are helping a lot of people here in Washington County and our partners second helping.
 St. James Food Pantry, Mighty by Design Therapeutic Arts Studio. There are so many more that we have started to collaborate with to make sure that these kids are school ready when the schools have to shut down. When the kids are out on summer break, we're right there at their front door feeding them and making sure that they have everything that they need to stay socially, emotionally, and school ready.
 And so I'm just here to say, guys, I am an organization, a nonprofit. I've been here for six years. And the fact is that we cannot go off of feeling.
 We have to go off of facts because feeling encompasses biases. And those biases will exclude us from actually taking part in something that is extraordinary for minority nonprofits, churches to actually get. Like Monique said, we just need to breathe, guys.
 And we need that funding to help us breathe so we can continue to support our residents here in Fiddleville, Arkansas. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this?
 My name is Sarah Moore and I live in Fayetteville in Ward 2. I'm really appreciative of this conversation. This is probably not the first time some of you have seen me and we've had this conversation even in front of this body. I didn't realize that our organization, Arkansas Justice Reform Coalition, was going to become such a super sleuth and so in-depth into the American Rescue Plan Act.
 money. We have spent countless hours attending webinars. We have spent the time digging through 450 pages of the final treasury and digesting that information. We were incredibly hopeful that this body and the City of Fayetteville would come forward with these monies into the community. We have hosted numerous conferences and conferences. We have hosted a number of
 cookouts across the county, specifically several in Fayetteville, and have gotten feedback having people weigh in at farmers markets in person, online, on a website where they want these monies to go. I think it is so vitally important that you guys have a conversation, but more importantly
 that you have a listening conversation and you hear feedback from your community from Fayetteville about what they would like to see this money spent on. It can seem like a really large amount of money, but one project can easily swallow it up. And I know all the city departments are well intentioned, have put together different projects, but at the end of the day, the spirit of these monies are to impact those that are disproportionately impacted in our community.
 I want us to really set really heavy that two people in our community lost their lives out in the weather this last week That was on all of our watch We've all worked really hard I know that the intention and the heart is here within the folks that are serving I know our community is doing the best but we actually have Something before us that that will never come to us again you know this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity with how these we spend these funds and
 I really would say let's pull back and really think about how we bucket this money equitably. You know, we put forth things that we've said, resolutions that racism is a public health crisis. It is. But we need teeth behind it. We need action, programs, and dollars. Unfortunately our black and brown communities were impacted disproportionately. Like you've heard tonight, many organizations came together and formed grassroots groups of organizations who don't even have incorporation, you know, that need to be subgranted to.
 We don't even know, I don't think, we don't have a good finger and pulse on what is the total need. You know, is it all in housing? Is it in food? I mean, does anybody have that crystal ball? I don't know that I do. But I think that we need to have a really serious conversation in our community about what could be one of the, you know, the biggest impacts we can make and how, you know, does all this money go to NGOs? Yes.
 You know, does it go to housing only? Does it, you know, how do we do that mix? Because at the end of the day, our economy's not gonna grow if folks aren't housed, if their basic needs are not met. We don't have a workforce. We have to pour into our people because they are our economy at the end of the day.
 So I would really, I would echo some of the sentiments that came forward earlier. I mean, I appreciate the diligence of the city staff, and I understand that they don't want us to get into an issue down the road to be audited. I very much appreciate that. I want to be fiscally responsible. But I don't think we ever want to put unnecessary burdens for it in our community, especially because so many are out there doing as much as they can, and these processes are already overwhelming and intimidating. The language of the Treasury,
 was saying to remove as many of the burdens and barriers as you possibly could so that you were getting this into the hands of the community that needs it. In those pollings that we put out to the community, the big thing that folks were asking for was direct household assistance. That was the feedback we got. Those are things like utility assistance, mortgage assistance, rental assistance, home repair, weatherization, burial costs, reimbursements for medical bills.
 And so I think we really need to have a really robust conversation about where we invest this money to allocate it into those big buckets and then really talk about where we can make some big impacts. Because at the end of the day, again, this money will be gone quickly and it would be great to make the biggest impact possible and to make sure we're enfranchising especially our most impacted, heaviest hit members in our community.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So what I'm hearing, and you all can correct me if I'm wrong, that you would like to extend the time of application until April 30th. Is that correct, DeAndre? Okay.
 Yes, Mayor Jordan and City Council, and I would just like to share, there is a report from 2020 from United Way and the Rockefeller Foundation, 76% of Black households in Washington County cannot afford basic needs. And a lot of these nonprofits are doing what they can to support nonprofits.
 these communities. So I just wanted to provide you all with some sort of stats as it relates to the urgency. Okay, so what I'm understanding, we're going to extend the application date till April the 30th and you all want a listening session or you all want to have a session about the rules? Yeah, council input about the rules. That's what I keep hearing from Council Member Jones. The council will
 Meet again, so and we have to will meet a couple three times will meet as many times as you all want to so But we will establish some sort of ground rules that stay within the confines of the federal rules Of course, we have to do that and we'll take it from there. How does that sound? I mean, I mean, I guess we're down to the part where somebody needs to make a motion in seconds pass a resolution and
 Mayor Jordan, I have a question. In this session, is it possible for the council to even create our own rules?
 based rules that are conducive to the federal government? Well, I'm sure, yeah. I mean, but at the end of the day, DeAndre, that's why we're putting this session together so you all can sit down and decide what kind of rules you want to go by staying within the confines of the federal law. Because at the end of the day, you all will decide where the money's distributed and who's going to get what. Okay. Just wanting to make sure. Sure. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. I mean, that's just my thoughts on it. Thank you.
 i move we pass the resolution okie dokie second we have a motion of a second to pass the resolution is there any final comments from the council i think we all right if not care what you please call it turk yes erzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes whittaker yes scroggins yes fudge
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Everybody, we're going to get there. We're going to get there. We'll have the sessions. We'll do whatever we need to do to make it work, okay? I mean, I'm in some new turf for myself as well, so I'm learning as we go. So we'll make it work. All right, so thank you all. Now we have another walk-on. We have one from...
 Holly Herzberg and Teresa Turk Council members, Holly Herzberg and Teresa Turk, is a resolution to express the support of the Federal City Council for the Ukrainian military and the Ukrainian citizens' brave defense of their country against the unprovoked illegal and brutal Russian invasion. I will entertain a motion and a second to add this to the agenda as well.
 Move we add this to the agenda? Second. We have a motion and a second to add it to the agenda. Care to please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench?
 Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Uh, if you want to read that resolution, I mean, yes, Mayor. I'll read it. And then we'll whereas Vladimir Putin and his spokesman since at least November 12th of 2021 have consistently and continuously lied about and denied their planned invasion of Ukraine.
 And whereas as late as February 16th, 2022, Russia's media reported that Russia's defense ministry said Tuesday that some troops deployed from the military district's border in Ukraine were being loaded onto trains and trucks and sent back to their garrison, marking Russia's latest step away from the threat of an invasion. And that's as reported in Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette of February 28th, 22 in an editorial.
 And whereas immediately before this illegal invasion began, Putin, during a personal phone call with French President Macron, again lied that no invasion was planned. And whereas this lie could not hide the truth that Russia began an unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine on several fronts shortly thereafter. And whereas Ukrainian troops joined by thousands of Ukrainian civilian volunteers
 have bravely rallied to the defense of their homeland, its democratic government, and their own liberty to fight the Russian invaders. Now therefore it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fevolaktsar, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fevolaktsar hereby expresses its admiration and full support for the Ukrainian military's courage and resolve and the Ukrainian Patriots' brave and heroic resistance against Russia's unprovoked
 illegal, inhumane, and intolerable invasion of a sovereign nation and the peace-loving citizens of Ukraine. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby calls upon all Fayetteville citizens and businesses to visibly and loudly support and honor Ukraine's continuing heroic resistance against the war criminal Vladimir Putin and his crony Kremlin supporters.
 and section three that the city council the city of favela are hereby supports the peace-loving russian people and requests that they continue and increase their public opposition to this unprovoked illegal unjust and needless war against their neighbors as well as their opposition to this corrupt tyrant who has even made veiled threats of nuclear war okay what uh now we'll turn it over to uh
 Councilmember Hersberg and Councilmember Turck for their comments on the resolution. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to make a brief comment. I think that this would be a really simple but important way that we voice our support for the people of Ukraine, especially those who reside in the city of Fayetteville or in the state of Arkansas. And so I just want us to be able to say we support you. And that's it. Thank you.
 Mayor, I'll follow up with a few comments. I echo exactly what Councilmember Hertzberg just said. You know Little Rock actually changed the color of the lights on one of their bridges over the Arkansas River. I thought that was a really important symbolic support for the Ukrainians and hopefully maybe there are some city buildings that we could do something similar to.
 and also encouraging our citizens in any way they choose to show solidarity with these brave Ukrainians. I really want to thank Kit for drafting this for us. And then also Section 3. You know, I've worked with the Russians on several occasions out at sea,
 And the Russian people, they really, they don't want war. They're just like us. It's when politics or a dictator such as Putin comes into play that things go awry. But working side by side with them, they are a really wonderful and hospitable group of people. And so I appreciate you including that Section 3 kit. And thank you for drafting this so quickly for us. Okay. Is there any questions from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council this is a resolution What discussion or action with the council like that? I just want to thank council member Turk and Hertzberg for bringing this forward and If there aren't any questions, I'm gonna be passed the resolution Okay, we have a motion second to pass a resolution. What file comments we have in the council? I
 I want to thank you Holly and Theresa for bringing this report kit. Thank you for drafting this. I think it's a very important document. There's not anything else. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Now moving on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 15, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with federal public schools for the upsizing of a water line along Rupert Road with a refund in an estimated amount of $94,890 to be paid by the city of Federal and to approve the project's contingency in the amount of $18,978.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $300 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department from the Reynolds family for the annual Employee Service Awards event.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize the purchase of bunker gear, coats, and pants from Line Manufacturing through NAPCO Incorporated to a source well co-opted purchasing contract in the amount of $101,869.95 plus applicable taxes and freight charges.
 Number five, a resolution to authorize the dedication of approximately 380 square feet of right-of-way to the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the Highway 16 project.
 Number six, the resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a grant agreement accepting a certified local government grant through the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program to complete a community-wide preservation plan and a cultural resource survey of the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 21-79 and to authorize contract with Suites
 in the amount of $535,029 for construction of the Mission Racerback Greenway Connector Project to approve the project contingency in the amount of $60,000 and approve the budget adjustment. This 2019 Trail Improvement Bond Project. Number eight, a resolution to authorize the Mayor to sign a 50-50 matching grant agreement with the Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage, and Tourism's
 outdoor recreation grant program in the amount of $220,000 for park improvements at Gully Park. And number nine, a resolution to award RFP 21-10 to Field Shop Incorporated and authorize the installation of a new tightrope media systems peg channel playout system in the television center for the
 for the amount of 57 428.88 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges i'll entertain a motion to accept consent agenda's red simon second we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda is red care would you please call the vote turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes whittaker yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now let's move on to unfinished business. Number one. Unfinished business. Unfinished business.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 21-087, located at North Pupil Drive between Wellington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 9.40 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to CS Community Services. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll.
 Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes
 Let's go again. Yes. Thanks. Yes. At Norton, it's the reason on that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-087, located on North Futrell Drive between Weddington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, for approximately 9.4 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre, to CS Community Services. Okay. Jonathan, do you have anything new on this one?
 uh thank you mayor i don't have anything new to the request but i did want to offer a brief summary of the tour that was held for council yesterday if i may sure i have 10 minutes
 certainly there were a few main items i wanted to hit on of course as always i want to defer to the council members who attended if they want to expand on these uh the topics that we mostly discussed on the property were tree preservation and if you did not see it in the staff report the tree preservation requirements would change with this request it's currently 25 tree canopy
 under RSF4 with an additional 5% for the portion of the property that's in our Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. That's for a cumulative 30%. That would decrease 5% under the proposed CS Community Services Zoning District, since Community Services has a baseline 20%, plus 5% in the HHOD district.
 The question of building height came up again, as it did at your last meeting. As a reminder, CS, the building height allowance is five stories under community services. There's also a question about street connections.
 This property is unusual from similar requests that were concurrently submitted in that it has access to both Futural, which is a one-way frontage road for Interstate 49 running north towards Weddington. This property also has access to Root Avenue, which is in the southeast corner of the property and is a two-way street which connects southward to Stone.
 And lastly, there are a few questions about development plans with this project. To date, staff has not seen any. And that census could be described as a speculative request. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Suzanne Clark is here as the applicant. Thank you. Okay. Suzanne, would you like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes.
 thank you mr mayor and council i appreciate your time this evening um i did want to make a few comments and i i thank the council for taking the time to visit uh to visit the property uh this property is currently zoned rsf4 and virtually everyone who has looked at this property has said yeah that's not the right zone here where it's located on 49 uh it's really it's not uh developing it for single-family homes is is not workable
 So the request a year ago came in for UT and was denied and at the planning commission meeting there was some discussion about that CS was more likely the right fit for this property. And my client heard that and came back with the request for CS.
 And I was a little surprised, I wasn't at the last council meeting, but some of the comments after reviewing it that seemed very clearly in opposition to CS on this when the staff had made the recommendation and when the planning commission unanimously recommended this to the council for approval to CS.
 And a lot of the comments, there were several statements about hearing from the public on this, and we certainly appreciate that the public is focused on what happens on this property. But the public comments are very clearly indicating they don't want development on this property, period end. We believe most of the comments that it should be preserved and conserved as some of the other property is north of that.
 And if the city wanted to decide that this property should be conserved in that manner, it certainly has got the power and authority to do that through eminent domain actions, but that's not a proper reason for denying a zoning request.
 the the public's right to enjoy the property because they like the view the public's right to enjoy the property because it is covered in trees right now um that's that's lovely uh however this property is owned by the barnes family trust and they've got property rights in that and they should be allowed to develop the property in accordance with the city's goals
 and here the city staff put together a very detailed review that specifically said it's compatible with the surrounding properties that it is in line with the city plan 2040 so cs is in line with the city's goals and if there's a legitimate land use reason for denying that zoning
 i'd be very surprised that it would get through the planning commission with a unanimous recommendation to go to the council so we appreciate the public's desire to not develop the property and keep it the way it is but that's a different conversation if it's maintained for the public
 That's a different conversation under a taking. If we're evaluating this as a zoning request based on land right uses and my client's ability to have the highest and best use of their real property that they own, I'm asking the council to please consider the fact that the staff did that evaluation, the planning commission did that evaluation, and unanimously said that CS is the right zone here.
 So I'm asking you to please take that into consideration. I know that you have heard from lots of the public out there with the fact that they don't want this property to be developed, but I'm asking you to look at what that process is supposed to be for the right to rezone. And since this request for CS is very much in line
 with the city's goals as defined and documented by the staff and supported by the Planning Commission, I'd ask that you please vote in favor and allow my client to have the zoning of CS as requested. And if you have any questions, I'm happy to address those. OK, thank you. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? All right. Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic which is the rezoning no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that so who do we have on no one has their hand raised at the moment mayor okay
 So is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address this on the rezone? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or action would the council like to take?
 I was at the tour yesterday. I want to thank Forrester, Don, and Jonathan for meeting us over there. It was really helpful. I used to live just below that hill, and
 I think for me it was really helpful to go and visit because there's been quite a bit of development since I've lived over there, all up on the hill. And so I can see what could potentially continue to happen up the hill. And the main reason I wanted to go was to see the slope and the topography and also the access to get in and out of the property. Okay.
 So when I lived there, it's now been probably about maybe 10 years ago, maybe it was less than that. The 49 went from four lanes to the six lanes.
 And it made the work traffic's already really bad and then it made it worse right and so now I pretty much avoid MLK at all costs and so to me all the services that really need to happen in that area are on MLK There's so many services. There's food. There's Hotels there's there's a lot but that mountain is very sacred and it is it just is in and and
 I was picking up leaves and things and spores and I'm a naturalist, that's what I do. And I completely understand the rights of the individual to want to potentially get that up zoned and potentially sell it for more money. And I understand that. And that is absolutely their right. It is absolutely their right.
 It's also really important to think about climate change. It's important to think about the lungs of our community. It's important to think about why people come to Fayetteville, why people live in Fayetteville. And we have been, I'm in Ward 1, so I have seen so much change, so much development, so many trees going down, so much, you know, it's, I'm honestly getting, it's getting a little bit exhausting, you know, and so I'm,
 I'm ready to kind of see that a little bit slow down. And I do think that we need to rezone that. But I don't think we need to upzone it. I think we need to downzone it. It would be my personal preference. And I do hope that maybe possibly the residents, the people around there that find that mountain so sacred will be able to find a way to purchase that from your client because it does need to be preserved.
 it was really eye opening to walk that piece of property. And so I wanna close on this. I had a long conversation with the forester afterward and I asked him, when you send me the report, when I wanna read something about a piece of property, what gradation of the forest do I need to look for to understand the type of the forest that it is? And he said he wanted to put it at three levels.
 He said it's either got, it's got to be contiguous to another piece of forest. And I'm going to use the word significant. And in those two cases, you know, we've got both. And so that's, that's where I am with it, you know. But it was good to go, good to go see it and be over there. And I definitely don't want to live over there ever again. The game traffic is terrible and we don't need to add more traffic over there.
 that's all i've got okay what other discussion would you all like to have or action would you like to take yeah i believe that this this property is just too prominent uh when we come in in the viewscape and what it signifies there's just way too much opportunities for for runoff to cause issues um
 So I have issues with just a blanket rezone. I think there are opportunities, transitions that could happen. Those would probably have to come through a PZD and some better playing. When somebody owns something at a current zone, you know,
 They do have the right to petition, but they don't have the right to get whatever they ask. And it seems like that's what's being insinuated here is that since they own it, they have the right to ask to do anything they want and they can do anything they want. But that's not the case. I think that this area needs to be preserved and there's opportunities. And I hope we can come up with a PCD that balances need and not just, you know, maximizing.
 what they can earn. That's really not Fayetteville. So I think there's an opportunity in PZD. So I'll be voting against it the way it is. So I have a few things I'd like to say here. You know, one thing that really struck me about this property, it is, it's very pretty piece of property.
 And it does have a lot of significant, I thought, significantly sized trees on it. You know, it's in the hilltop, hillside overlay district. So that adds, you know, whatever the zoning is, whatever it is zoned, that adds an additional area that's in that adds an additional 5% of the tree canopy that has to be maintained.
 And, but I was also very surprised that it was not steeper because I always think of that hilltop property, hillside property as being much steeper, that is. And I'm not convinced, looking at all the applications that could be applied in the CS zoning, I'm not convinced that.
 that that's exactly the zoning that I would want there. But I also don't think that four houses per acre is really appropriate there either. You know, and I kind of, I mean, I get what Sloan is saying about PZD, you know, and I think we do need to be a little bit tighter maybe with some of our rezonings, you know, because there are so many things that can, when we rezone something, there's so many things that can go in a certain place.
 But I do think that this does possibly need to be rezoned. I do not think it needs to be downzoned because I think that places, you know, talking like that places an unnecessary hardship on the people who are applying for this. And I also do not see four houses per acre going in here. I don't think that fits really well either with this area. You know, the traffic is unfortunate.
 But, you know, if somebody else wants to buy this property and make it into a nature preserve, I'm sure that the people selling it would sell it to you for that. But I just don't know what the right zoning is, but I'm not so sure that we shouldn't rezone it to something else other than RSF4. So thank you, Jonathan and John Scott, for the tour yesterday. That was very helpful.
 uh i i was struck by it not being as steep as i imagined just like council member bunch said however there was a lot of clay out there we saw a spring that just kind of came out of nowhere right out of the side of the mountain this was a fully mature treed area so lots of carbon sequestration going on there right now
 And if it was rezoned to CS, that would reduce the tree crank canopy requirement by 5%. So I will not be supporting this zoning request.
 I would be open to maybe other zoning types in the future, but I think CS allows for five stories, having a five story building in that area, even on a slopey area that wasn't as steep as I thought, and in such a prominent area, I think is problematic. And I think we have to always envision what's the densest and largest development allowed.
 and go from there. So thank you again for the tour. Really, that was really helpful. Okay, what are the discussion? This is an ordinance. We're on the second reading. What discussion or action items would the council? I agree with Councilman Bunch that the current zoning is not ideal. And I think that someone does need to bring forward a rezoning.
 that may be a better fit than the one that we have in front of us. I'm having a hard time with this. It is certainly property that needs to be developed in a different manner than four houses. Thinking about the property itself and the geology and the hydrology
 If you walk across it, and I'm glad that Council Member Turk mentioned that, it is a very wet play area. And it is also protected in the hillside on part of it. That's a good thing.
 But looking at all of it and balancing it, I don't think I can support the requested zoning. But I do hope that there will be, I think a PZD would be ideal. It's not that large of a piece of property and so it would not be extremely tough to get a PZD in there. But some type of rezoning would certainly be more appropriate than what it is now. I'm not going to be supporting this rezoning.
 Okay. Any other discussion? Mike? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I want to acknowledge the
 the professionalism and the adequacy of the representation of the owners. I feel like their council has led them in the right direction and ably and courteously represented them. I think the other thing going for them is the two sides, multifamily zoning. So it's not as if we're dealing with a pristine piece of property that has not already had development adjacent to it, and on the third side, the interstate.
 It was much flatter than I envisioned as well also. I think the community's voice that we're hearing or that I am hearing is that view corridors matter and that going forward for the city of Fayetteville, that's going to be something that...
 is of value to the entire community and the identity and the dna and the sense of place that the city of fayetteville has and so while we cannot request that the applicant come to us and voluntarily offer a design or a plan for going forward that would allow them to
 adequately develop for their profit a portion of the property while retaining view corridor for the community i Know that from the concern that we're hearing that it's that view corridor and tree preservation That is at the heart of the issue and i think that that's legitimate and authentic for the identity of fayetteville and so i Too struggle with this because we've got the property interest right and at the same time um
 they do have the right to develop the property currently. They're not being denied anything. So I'm struggling with this despite the fact that the Planning Commission previously denied a UT and then approved this. I think that it was to honor the movement of the applicant from their original application to a more appropriate application. And I think that
 and they had three previous rezoning requests that were denied and that this was in essence an acknowledgement of them working with the city at that point. So those would be my only comments, Mr. Mayor, thank you. Okay, any other comments? We're still on the second reading. This is an ordinance. So what continued discussion or action would the council like to take? I'm gonna suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon? Sorry, I'm having trouble with that.
 i forgot how it's written now i would not support the rezoning so is that a yes or a no whether it's written well we're just advancing to the third okay that's where i was getting confused yes let's advance it sorry about that i had a little moment heaven whitaker yes scroggins yes bunch yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-087
 located on North Futrell Drive between Weddington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr Boulevard for approximately 9.4 acres from RSF for residential single-family for units per acre to CS community services. I want to say that I agree somewhat with the applicants attorney on this about what you can consider and What you cannot? you
 Fortunately, what I've heard from the city council is that you're not opposed to development of this property. You're not going to try to block development. It is developable at RSF 4, the most common zone in Fayetteville, and even though it's on a hillside, it could be developed that way.
 Also, I've heard suggestions for other developments or even maybe splitting the lot so that part of it can be developed in multifamily housing With the other part maybe not in some such an intense use so but I want to make sure the City Council doesn't say that it We must preserve the trees. So we're not going to let you develop because that's improper. We can't do that. I
 we can't also just protect the viewshed. This is something that we have to follow the law. But I think in this particular case, I heard a lot of good explanations from the City Council. There's still a lot of development potential there, even if it's not re-zoned. City Council is not required to up-zone, even if that might be something that the applicant wants and Planning would recommend and Planning Commission recommend. That's not a requirement that the City Council accept those recommendations. You can make your own decisions.
 But I just wanted to say that before you have your final vote. Before we go on to the next vote here, I tried to say this before, but... So...
 One of the things that I want to find out is if this is turned down tonight, when can they reapply for a different type of zoning or whatever they might want to do? If it is a different request for zoning, they don't really have to wait. If they wanted to bring the same request back, they'd have to wait, I think, a year. To some extent, and Jonathan can elaborate on this, it's up to what the planning commission decides, but if it's a much different zoning...
 even if it's a PZD or something like that that's mainly residential, I think they could bring it back immediately. Is that right, Jonathan? That's correct. It's up to the Planning Commission if the request is substantially different enough from what was denied, which in some cases can represent a change in zoning district and in other instances has represented offering other mechanisms like a bill of assurance to address a concern about height if that was a focus of conversation.
 So, since you brought up the bill of assurance, which we don't have and we can't ask for, we understand that. If someone were to offer something like that, you think the Planning Commission would look at that as a substantially changed version? We just have to take it to Planning Commission and find out? That's correct. It's the Planning Commission's determination.
 Because it's kind of my understanding, and maybe I'm hearing, maybe I heard this a little bit wrong from the applicant, was that they kind of heard...
 conversations at Planning Commission and they just decided to go with this particular that someone had said well if it was this zoning we might we might do CS instead of UT and that's how they came to their conclusion to apply for the CS I'm not really sure about that but that's kind of what I was picking up there so you know maybe a little more finessing of this might be might be in the works because Planning Commission
 And city council are two different bodies. And I know people, you know, people always think, well, I went to you and you said this. And I said, who is you? Well, the planning commission. Well, we're not the planning commission.
 And, you know, so we have a little different criteria here. But I do think there's something that can be done with this property. It can be developed, but it may need to have a little special touch put on it there to shape it up into something different. But I think RSF4 is not an accurate zoning for this. Thank you. Thank you.
 If we don't want to move it forward so we'll have some more time, because I like what Council Member Bunch just said, maybe we need to think about that. We just, how could we...
 We've already said yes, we wanted to vote on it. So we're just here to do that? Or can we? Well, if you didn't want to advance, you can move to table. And that's one way that you wouldn't have to actually vote tonight. But now that you've advanced to the third and final reason, reading, then you're either going to vote on it or you're going to table it. Oh, dear. I'm going to make a motion to table it because I do think that there was a lot of discussion tonight that might be.
 handled with a letter of assurance by the applicant. And I want to give them time to consider that. We may not consider that at all, but it certainly would be an opportunity for someone to think about taking it to the next step. And so I'm moving that. If I can get a second, that'd be great. I'd second that. We have a motion and a second to take. What are we talking about, y'all, two weeks or...
 Next meeting next meeting. Yeah Turd Oh Hertzberg Yes, Harvey. No Jones. Yes Kenyon yes Whitaker. Yes Scroggins yes Bench yes
 It has been tabled, Mayor. All right. Very good, then. We'll revisit this in two weeks. All right. Let's go on to number two. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-092, located south of 375 North Rupert Road for approximately 5.34 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services, and approximately . . .
 3-4 acres from CS Community Services to RA Residential Agricultural. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Herk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Yes. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-92 located south of 375 North Rupert Road for approximately 5.34 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services and approximately 0.34 acres from CS Community Services to RA Residential Agricultural. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. I did not present this item when it first was before council due to the applicant's request to table. So I will go into a little bit more detail of a presentation now. This property is in West Fayetteville. As you can see on the aerial here, it's immediately southwest of Owl Creek School on the west side of RuPaul between Persimmon to the north and MLK to the south.
 This is in Ward 4, and it's a largely undeveloped or completely undeveloped, largely open piece of property. It is most readily characterized by how it's surrounded by Owl Creek and two of its tributaries. Owl Creek runs to the immediate north of the property, and there's tributaries running along its northeast.
 south and southwest property lines, which you can clearly see here reflected in the floodplain and floodways you see bordering the property. The red and blue hatched areas are the floodways, and the light blue is the floodplain on the property.
 As you can see from the shape of the parcel, it is a somewhat atypical request in what's being proposed as far as just the boundaries of it. The black represents the areas to be requested.
 to be rezoned. It's about half an acre of land being proposed to be rezoned from CS Community Services down zoning to RA Residential Agricultural, which you can see here in green. The flip side of that is a request to rezone about 5.3 acres, which you see here in purple, from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services
 Although staff has not seen the detailed development request, the applicant has expressed an intent to develop the property with an age-restricted community.
 The zoning on the property, as you can tell, was deliberate, although it is quite unusual. This was done in 2015 as a part of a council rezoning action all along the proposed Rupal Road, rezoning it with the intent to develop it in a manner the city thought appropriate in association with that major infrastructure investment plan.
 This parcel was, as you can see, rezone the portion to CS community services with the balance of it as RA residential agricultural
 When looking at the request from a compatibility standpoint, staff did find it to be generally compatible. There is a mixture of uses in the area, although to the southwest it is predominantly or exclusively single family homes. There are a number of different other uses in the area. There's the aforementioned Owl Creek School to the northeast. There's another age-restricted community immediately to the north.
 As you proceed north along Repo, of course, as you get closer to Weddington, there's more residential leading the services along Weddington itself. The flip side of this is the city's adopted long-range plans, which staff only found the request to be partially consistent with. The future land use map for the property is split three ways.
 The portion of the property, which you see here in blue is designated a city neighborhood, a budding Rupa road itself before segueing into a portion that's yellow, the residential neighborhood area. And then the remainder of the property is all designated as natural area, which.
 typically would reflect the floodplain exactly, but in this instance, it does not exactly mirror that floodplain, which is unusual. It's not entirely clear how exactly that delineation came from. Typically when we apply that natural area designation in our future land use maps, it follows floodplains or areas of other natural resources.
 So staff did find the portion of the request that is within the residential neighborhood area, the city neighborhood to be complimentary, but that which fell in the natural area does not fully agree with what our future land use map envisions as leaving an area undeveloped or in some state of preservation.
 As far as other pieces of our long-range plans, city plan 2040, this request does speak to some of those goals, but not others. Yes, community services is conducive to developing in a traditional town form or complete connected community with the mixture of allowed uses of different housing types. Similarly, that spectrum of housing types allowed in CS from a single family home up to multifamily housing,
 Justin Fields, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder, City of Boulder,
 and similarly you can see in the infill rating for this property it does indicate some elements that you would expect to find and would be appropriate and conducive to development such as access to transit at the intersection of Ruple and Persimmon the adjacency to the public school and to trail off Ruple but there are a lot of other amenities like park and retail services that are not immediately nearby or are typically closer to Weddington or MLK
 There are some other issues that staff considered with this request. One of course was the deliberateness of the city initiated rezoning of this property. While staff does put a lot of stock in that, you've heard us speak many times about neighborhood plans and how those were deliberately done. Again that inconsistent outline between the existing zoning districts, the future land use map and the floodplain suggests that there may be some degree of flexibility or appropriate rezoning on the property to reflect.
 the reality of what's going on the ground and developability of the property. Another issue staff identified, which is probably foreshadowed by my description of the floodplain, is that this property simply doesn't have a lot of connectivity options. It can connect to Ruple and probably Ruple alone, given the Owl Creek corridor to the north and the tributaries to the northeast and southwest.
 Lastly, and it is worth noting the sign has been to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. They have looked at it and considered it and do recommend taking parkland dedication immediately to the west of the property and towards the south. But of course that will ultimately be considered when it develops and is submitted. That will be part of the Planning Commission's determination, assuming the rezoning is approved.
 All that said, and on the balance of issues, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission concurred, forwarding the item unanimously to the City Council. A lot of the Commission's comments reflected those that staff made in their report and otherwise. The property's shape was unusual. Its rezoning outline was unusual. And allowing this rezoning to go through allows perhaps a more realistic flexibility to developing a property that the City clearly intended to see developed in 2015.
 On the flip side, there are also shared concerns about the limited connectivity, existing flood plane and of course the Enduring Green Network. To date, staff has not received any public comment. I'm happy to take questions and I believe either Blake or Justin Jorgensen or Mark Marquis are available here as the applicant. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 good evening mayor and council justin jorgensen with jorgensen associates it's good to see everyone's face in person um i'm here with mark marquez and as mr kirk explained this was kind of a part of a blanket rezoning for the city and part of that is we're working through the floodplain and kind of our boundary we've been working with alan pugh and able to work
 you know, work through that and all the cross sections in the different areas. And so that's kind of why we're where we're at now is we actually have a boundary of a concept plan and we're working with him on what's usable and what's not. So that's why we're here today on the request of rezoning. Hope not to take anyone's time. I'm glad to answer any questions anyone has as well as Mark or Taylor Marquez. So we're glad to sit here and listen. Thank you very much. Great. Thank you.
 What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber after that. So who would like to address us? Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, neither. Okay. Is there...
 Anyone in the chamber that would like to address this, you have five minutes. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading, so what discussion or action would the council like to take or what discussion would you like to have?
 I guess I would like to discuss that, you know, we're back to CS and a five-story building could be built right there, right next to the floodplain. In fact, some of it would be in the floodplain if it's rezoned to CS. It's right next to a school. Yes, it has some connectivity constraints, but I definitely have concerns about rezoning it to such a high density. Any other discussion?
 Is there any action we all would like to take? I would love it if some of that road was developed not in a single family housing pattern because that's always seen from the developer this whole time. So I have no reason to expect anything else. I would love to see something else, but I don't think Mark's gonna build a five-story building.
 um and if he did it probably would provide services that all those houses that he's built out there needs anyway what other discussion would you all like to have or what action would you like to take or what would you like to do do we need to do public comment first yes we're through public comment um i'm moving we spend the roles and go to third reading yes ma'am thank you we have a motion to say and go to third and final read
 Care which police call the roll. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bench. Yes.
 and ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-92 located south of 375 north rupa road for approximately 5.34 acres from ra residential agricultural to cs community services and approximately 0.34 acres from cs community services to ra residential agricultural okay what kind of comments do we have in the council
 Yes, I have a quick comment. I think this is a good place for density. I am, I definitely am concerned about the floodplain, but I also have a good trust that, you know, the ordinance that we have to
 deal with the floodplain and do a good, robust plan there that will protect those stream sides. You know, there's not, I don't see any forest there. It looks fairly flat, looks fairly like it's maybe oak. It was farmland and then
 kind of left over um and i wouldn't like to see a just you know one house on there um since it's so close to that school it'd be nice to have multi-family near the school so that's why i'll be supporting it um that's why it's up any other final comments from council here would you please call the roll turk no herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon
 Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's go on to number three.
 an ordinance to amend sections 156.03 development parking and loading 166.02 development review process 168.07 permit procedures 168.09 appeals and 168.10 provisions for flood hazard reduction of the unified development code to address incorrect references clarify
 what qualifies as existing impervious area and remove the redundancies and ambiguities from the flood damage prevention code this was left on the first reading i would entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second we have a motion the second to go to the second reading care which please help turk yes herzberg yes harvey jones yes canyon yes
 Whitaker yes Scroggins yes yes in order to amend sections 156 oh three development parking and loading section 166 oh two development review process section 168 oh seven permit procedures
 section 168 09 appeals and section 16810 provisions for flood hazard reduction of the unified development code to address incorrect references clarify what qualifies as existing impervious area and remove redundancies and ambiguities from the flood damage prevention code okay how do you have this one i do thank you mayor um
 i won't go into great detail perhaps as much detail as last time but we'll just touch on briefly for the council and maybe some new members of council mr whitaker what we're proposing to change here and if i can share my screen hopefully i shared the right thing let me see make sure um unified development code
 So hopefully everybody can see that. Really 156.03 correcting two incorrect references. Those sections of code no longer exist as they were originally written. There is some debate and I'll let the city attorney to touch on after I'm through. This terminology change between satisfied and considered, that's really the only public comment that we've received. And some of the concerns from our council during the last meeting.
 But even further on briefly, we've moved streamside protection up underneath the flood damage prevention code and out of its own section of the variances code. 166 is one of the major changes that we're proposing here, not necessarily major, but in this proposal perhaps. Just confirming when impervious area had to exist before it would be counted as existing impervious area.
 Again, the example that we gave last time, so we've had some questions about, if I had a survey for a gravel parking lot that was gravel six, seven, eight years ago, and that gravel has since been removed and returned to lawn area, can I count that gravel? We wanna make sure that everybody's going off with the same playing field as far as existing impervious. This March 3rd date corresponds with the date of our aerial imagery. So we thought that would be a great baseline that we could very easily confirm.
 Under 168, we removed some redundancies. Appeals specifically was referenced in two different sections. We felt that was unnecessary after talking to the city attorney. We've cleaned up and the appeals process has not changed. We're just only referencing that once. Again, also did some cleanup and variances just to make sure that there's no incorrect references there. And then...
 Probably lastly, I'll touch on allowing for some small type development in a floodplain without having to go through the expense of a flood study. That small being in compliance with our current streamside protection codes.
 So provided that that shall not apply to single accessory structures, no larger, no larger than 150 square feet, just including small storage sheds and playground equipment, gazebos, etc. that those would be allowed without having to go through the time and the expense of a full blown flood study. So certainly happy to answer any questions that you may have. I believe the city attorney also did send out a memo to the council regarding the terminology change from satisfied to considered here.
 prefer to defer those questions to him if you've got specifics so okay uh what questions do we have in the council all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that um
 Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, ma'am. Okay. So does anyone in the chamber like to speak to us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would you like to take?
 I'd like to make a comment. So I had a thank you very much to Alan and Kit. I had a nice discussion with Kit and we reviewed some of the constituents concerns and my concerns about changing satisfied to consider. I thought Kit's explanation in his letter but also in discussion was sufficient, was good.
 and has alleviated any concerns that I have about that provision. So with that, if there's no objections or no other discussion, I'll move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. And in order to amend Section 156.03, Development, Parking, and Loading, Section 166.02, Development Review Process, Section 168.07, Permit Procedures,
 Section 168.09 appeals and Section 168.10 provisions for flood hazard reduction of the Unified Development Code to address incorrect references, clarify what qualifies as existing impervious area, and remove redundancies and ambiguities from the Flood Damage Prevention Code.
 i'd like to take this opportunity really to thank our engineering department especially alan pew not only for this kind of correction measure but also for that other major drainage and flood protection measure that was adopted by the city council i think that's going to make a big difference it's going to really protect our floodways and flood plains much better
 We've been improving our flood regulations for decades now. I was actually on the council when we did our first one and it was pretty minor. So we've come a long ways. We're still not perfect. We're also facing a period of time that the climate is changing.
 I think we're all aware that the amount of flooding and the numbers of flood events are increasing. I would expect the FEMA maps to be changing and getting wider, but I want to thank engineering for getting us to the right position now, but I think there'll be more to come. I do too. I agree with Kevin. That was well put. We've seen a few changes since you were on the council and I was on the council, sure.
 But yes, Alan, thank you very much for your work on this. Y'all have done some really great work. If there's not any other comments, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to new business.
 ordinance to approve vacation 22-0002 for property located at 430 West Dixon Street to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 In which the City Council has determined the following described portion of a water sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a water sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, the existing 2.25-inch water line shall be relocated outside of the development footprint in a dedicated water easement. And Number 2, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in downtown Fayetteville and Ward 2. More specifically, it's at the northeast corner of Dixon and West, just east of the Bank of Fayetteville train cars. It's located just north of the building where Hog House formerly was.
 The request is to vacate approximately 1,300 square feet of water and sewer easement, which you can see here in blue just north of the building and just south of the municipal parking lot entrance off of West Avenue. Staff has not identified any issues with the request. The applicant submitted all the necessary documents to our water and sewer department. They've given their consent.
 That consent was predicated on the condition that Mr Williams laid forth, which is that the existing line needs to be relocated and dedicated within a new easement. And in addition to that, staff has proposed our typical boilerplate condition, which is that any damage or relocation.
 of anything within the easement will be at the applicant's expense. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Kara Lewers is here as the applicant, although I don't see her online. She may be there present in person. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor. Council, my name is Matt Poe with Moda Studios. Speaking on behalf of the building owner and also the tenant at the time, Tim Roof.
 We've been through many planning commissions so far to get the building permit and working with CEP for outdoor music. Ultimately, this existing easement, to our knowledge, has no utility underneath it and the utility that may be running diagonal was understood to be abandoned in 1994. That said, the restaurant plans to build some walk-in coolers along the edge of the property and there will be an outdoor container for refreshments.
 built in the middle of this area for the outdoor music venue. Happy to answer any questions that y'all may have. Okay, what questions do we have for the staff of the applicant? Okay, let's make some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first.
 and those present in the chamber will speak after that so who would who do we have on zoom susan nobody mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council who in the chamber would like to address us okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion would the council like to have and what are what action would the council like to take number we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 22-02 for property located at 430 West Dixon Street to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement.
 Will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 And Norwich approved VAC 22-02 for a property located at 430 West Dixon Street to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement. Any final comments from the council? I have a comment. I'm just looking forward to the business owner's plans. That's going to be a real beautiful entryway off of the new parking deck as people arrive to Fayetteville for the first time. So looking forward to the exciting, innovative solutions.
 you mentioned a container so that sounds exciting so good luck with the project and that's all i've got okay any other comments from the council okay care would you please call the road turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes whittaker yes scroggins yes bench yes okay thank you all
 Number 2, an ordinance to approve Vacation 22-0003 for property located at 100 North Skyline Drive to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes,
 Whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of a water sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes now Therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a water sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo Section 2 a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as exhibit a to the Planning Department's agenda memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk and
 section 3 this vacation approval subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developers expense okay Jonathan Thank You mayor this property is in ward 1 on the northern end of the peak of Mount Sequoia it's immediately
 immediately north of the Mount Sequoia Center itself along the skyline. This is similar to the last request in that it's also a water and sewer easement vacation, but in this case, it's even less property. It's about 860 square feet, and this was also different from the last one in that there is no existing water line in there, whether public or a service line.
 So when it comes to identifying any issues or concerns, staff has not found any. The water department or the utility department has signed off on it. And again, we're recommending approval, this time with one condition, simply that any damage of us, as with the last one, any damage would be at the property owner or developer's expense. And again, I'm happy to take any questions the council has.
 Is there an applicant on this one? I'm sorry, Mayor. Yes, Andrew Hicks is here as the applicant. I believe he's present in the chambers. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Andrew Hicks, and I and my wife, Cynthia, are here tonight. We bought this property about a year and a half ago, and when we purchased it, our intention, of course, was to do a small addition on the property.
 east side of the of the present house and uh when we came down to do a preliminary walk through with the uh city official here uh jonathan uh they went through their records and found that there actually was an easement there that we were not aware of so at that time we decided we'd come back and and do this process to ask to have it done because we would like to do a small addition houses
 about a thousand square foot footprint. We want to do something to make it a little bit more livable in the location of where there's a current carport right now. Easement actually rides right under the carport, so the present carport. So once we got that done, we would remove the carport and then put an addition where it is. Okay, is there any questions for the staff of the applicant? All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, do we have anybody by Zoom? No, sir. Does anybody in the chamber like to address us?
 okay i'm going to bring it back to the council council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take
 i just have a quick question i have a quick question so i'm sorry that's okay um jonathan and your number one under your recommendation on that two page two of the packet you said that you wanted to do a condition of approval do we need to add that or do we or is that already in there
 Mr. Williams read that as part of the ordinance, I believe. So that's part of the thing, that any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense? That's correct. Okay, that's it. That's all I have. I just wanted to make sure that was in there. Thank you. Second? We have a motion to second to go to the second read. Care to please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Funch? Yes. And no less approved, VAC 22-03 for a property located at 100 North Skyline Drive to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement. May we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Tarrick? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scronkin yes Bench yes an ordinance to approve vac 22-03 for property located at 100 North skyline drive to vacate a portion of a water sewer easement okay any final comments from the council please call the roll Turk yes Hertzberg
 Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Bench? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. You did real well. Thank you for staying. Thank you for enduring our process. Sure, you were last. Y'all did real well. Thank you. Bye. Bye.
 Okay, Susan, do you have any announcements? Yes, there are two announcements. Tomorrow, if weather continues to be permitting, we will have the prescribed burn at Lake Fayetteville Dam that will cause a little smoke in the area. 1 p.m., we anticipate having that. Also, the last...
 in-person public input session for the parks master planning kickoff that we have been doing the last one will be um and i mean last in this series will be wednesday um that'd be tomorrow sorry um 3 30 to 6 30 at the fable public library
 event center so if anybody's missed the previous two you're welcome there and then what we'll do with the material we've been collecting from all the different input sessions is initiate the speak up page that will allow further input to continue to happen there and that's all I have mayor James mayor I do have one announcement though because the City Council did not pass a resolution to extend the mask mandate it will automatically expire tomorrow morning
 The mayor still has control over the city and so he will determine whether masks will be needed to still be worn in city buildings. But elsewhere throughout Fayetteville, masks will no longer be mandated. Okay.
 All right. I don't believe we have anything else. Thank you all. Susan said we're going to do the burn tomorrow, be a little smoke in the air. I know the council's familiar with a little smoke in the air around here. So that all being said, y'all have a wonderful evening. Thank you. We're adjourned.