I'd like to call the City Council meeting of March 7th, 2023 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Heard. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Ledecker. Here. Berna. Here. Bunch. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Roll call. Roll call.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of January, which is period one of our new fiscal year, 2023. So the combined sales taxes for the general fund were up 7.6% compared to last year.
 Franchise fees were up. Beverage taxes were up. Building fees were up quite a bit. They were up over 30 percent. They're up very strong so far this year as far as our...
 as our permitting is up and very strong at this point in time. State turn back is down at this point in the year, charges for services are down a little bit. Now that takes in parks, parks programs, things of that nature. That'll probably pick up a little later in the year. Fees and fines over the courts, remember most for the last two years, they must have been down pretty much at this point in time, they're flat.
 INTEREST EARNINGS ARE UP AS WE'RE STARTING TO SEE A LITTLE RISE IN THE INTEREST EARNINGS AND THE INTEREST RATES BEING PAID TODAY. SO ALL IN ALL, THE REVENUE IS UP 8% COMPARED TO BUDGET, BUT IT IS UP ROUGHLY 15% COMPARED TO WHAT WE COLLECTED LAST YEAR. SO WE'RE PRETTY STRONG IN THE GENERAL FUND AT THIS POINT IN TIME. STREET FUND IS FLAT.
 compared to last year and compared to budget at this point in time. MFT turned back, state turned back for motor fuel taxes is up a little bit, about 3%. Half cent sales tax is up roughly 10% at this point in time. So gasoline taxes are still up plus that also factors in part of what the cost of the gasoline is too.
 severance taxes down and the county turn back is down at this point in time. So we're pretty flat in the streets. But remember, we've been very strong in the street fund for the last two years. Parking fees, parking fees are down slightly compared to last year. They're down
 just roughly a half a percent compared to last year. So parking fees are still pretty strong in the downtown and and entertainment district.
 Parks development fees, so far we're up 9% compared to last year. And so they are strong at this point in time, showing us that HMR taxes are up. Hotel and motel receipts are up as our entertainment district is also up. Water usage, we're up 4.8% compared to last year for water and sewer at this point in time.
 Trash and recycling were up compared to last year. We're a little flat compared to the budget at this point in time. Remember, we've had some weather issues, which have probably restricted some of the haulers in our area, the contractual haulers for contractual hauling.
 And pull charges are bound a bit. Plus, our transfer station had been down for repair. I think that started in roughly the middle of January, and we're going to be opening up that this week. So that should pick up as we go forward.
 Airport sales for fuel are still up. They're 30% up compared to where we were last year. We'll see how that plays out. Again, we're very, very early in the year, so comparisons are difficult, but we're still doing pretty strong. As far as sales tax is concerned, I did want to talk a little bit about the composition and the components in our sales tax.
 This year we saw a lot of the higher ticket items for December, and these are December sales tax collections. They were down a bit. Accommodation of food services were up, so that's still strong as far as hotels, restaurants are going forward. Also, big box stores,
 like the Walmarts, the Kohl's, places like that. They were up pretty well for the period, but a lot of your more luxury sales in the furniture area and things like that showed some softness and weakness. Internet sales were up 6% for the period. But again, they're still pretty strong when we look back historically. Now, our sales tax increases for the last two years were 2.6%.
 average but if we look back for five years at seven point six so I expect the sales tax to start leveling off this year but right now I'm very very pleased with the results for January and we had some weather issues too as we did in February so we'll see how we come out but but I think so far our revenue strength is is there and is still
 staying pretty high as we move forward. I'll be happy to answer questions. Paul? All right. The next order of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 21st, 2023 City Council meeting minutes.
 number two a resolution to approve change order number six contract with jbz incorporated dba ellingson contracting in the amount of 156 812 dollars for additional construction associated with the woolsey farmstead restoration project and to approve project intensity in the amount of 20 000. number three a resolution to award bid number 23-17 and to authorize a contract with
 SWITCHER CONSTRUCTION INCORPORATED ANY AMOUNT OF $502,480 FOR INSTALLATION OF STORM DRAMAGE ALONG THE MISSION BOULEVARD TRAIL TO APPROVE THE PROJECT AND TENDENCY ANY AMOUNT OF $100,000 AND TO APPROVE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. THIS IS 2019 TRAIL IMPROVEMENT POND PROJECT.
 Number four, resolution to approve amendment number three to the contract with Craft and Tolman Associates Incorporated for additional design and construction management services associated with the Mission Boulevard Trail and Street Improvement Project in the amount of $58,300 and to approve the budget adjustment. This also is a 2019 Trail Improvement Bond Project.
 5. A resolution to award bid number 22-47 that authorized a contract with Rock Solid Trail Contracting LLC in the amount of $75,465 for the construction of trail improvements at Kessler Mountain Regional Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $37,905.
 Number six, a resolution to authorize the purchase of brine-making equipment from Cargill Salt, DBA, Cargill Road Safety in the amount of $116,521 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well go off to a purchasing contract and to prove budget adjustments.
 7. A resolution to approve a contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $58,610 for field surveying services and utility relocation fees associated with the Rockwood Trail Water Line project and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $5,711.
 A RESOLUTION PURSUANT TO 39.10 C4 OF THE FEDERAL CITY CODE TO AUTHORIZE THE MAYOR TO PAY THE AMOUNT OF 33,347.65 TO LAWRENCE CHAMEL FOR A SEWER DAMAGE CLAIM ARISING AT 2143 WEST LAUREN CIRCLE.
 9. Resolution to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $39,986 plus applicable taxes and freight charges for a Toyota forklift from Huggins Hall of Tawny Town and to approve budget adjustments. 10.
 A resolution to authorize a construction manager at-risk services contract with NABHOST Construction Corporation pursuant to RFQ 22-13 for the Yvonne Richardson Community Center expansion to provide pre-construction services not to exceed the amount of $15,000 and construction services with a guaranteed maximum price to be determined.
 by future change orders and to approve the budget adjustment this 2020 2022 park improvement bond project number 11 a resolution to authorize the construction of manager at risk services contract flintco llc pursuant to rfq 22-12 for the fire station for fire station 2 project
 To provide pre-construction services not to exceed the amount of $30,000 in construction services with a guaranteed maximum price to be determined by future change orders and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2022 Firefighting Facilities Improvement Bond Project.
 Number 12, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $7,000 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department from the First Security Bank, Farmers and Merchants Bank, Grand Savings Bank.
 UARC Federal Credit Union and Nelson Berna Funeral Home for the Annual Employee Service Awards event. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Motion to second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes.
 Thanks. Yes. Okay, let's move along to unfinished business. An ordinance to amend 51.136 water sewer rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veach.
 Paul, I understand you won't table this. Yes, Mayor. I'd like to table this to the April 18th meeting. That would be the second meeting in April. We still got some work to do on this. If you remember, we started this study back in 2020. Since then, as we looked at it, we became aware of some new capital projects and capital programs that we're going to have to address in the future years, which this study will cover.
 will provide funds for and we also Have our waiting on Farmington and the Farmington contract So we still have to take this through the water and sewer committee discuss it with them We're still waiting on some adjustments coming black back to back and Black and Beach I hope to have this back to the council the second meeting in April But I thought I would set that date even if we can't hit that date I could give you an update at that point in time Okay questions from the council
 I need a motion and a second to table. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to table. And what was the date you wanted to table to? April 18th. I'm sorry, Ken. Sorry. OK. Date to table, Paul. April 18th, second meeting in April. 18th. OK.
 All right. We have a motion and a second to table this item until April the 18th. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go to number two.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 22-055 located at north bob yonkin drive and west bishop drive in ward 3 for approximately 7.76 acres from ro residential office to cs community service
 Services and our mf24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. This was left on the second reading I would entertain a motion to go third and powering so move second If motion second to go to the third and final reading here, which please call the rough turn Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, Barbie. Yes Jones, yes more. Yes, we'd occur. Yes, Berna. Yes. Thanks. Yes. I
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-55 located at North Bob Yonkin Drive and West Bishop Drive in Ward 3 for approximately 7.76 acres from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services and RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 units per acre. Okay.
 THANK YOU, MAYOR. GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL. JONATHAN KURTZ WITH THE DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT. I HAVE NO NEW UPDATES OR INFORMATION ON THIS ITEM. JUST AS A REMINDER, STAFF IS IN FAVOR OF THIS REQUEST. THE PLANNING COMMISSION FORWARDED IT TO CITY COUNCIL WITH A UNANIMOUS VOTE IN FAVOR OF
 There have been some staff or some public comments and concerns about it. I believe Council Member Burn has been feeling a bit of that and had shared that the developer and the neighbors have been speaking. And at that note, I believe Tim Briseal is here, Mayor, as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening. My name is Tim Brisell. Not a lot of new updates since our initial meeting on this. However, I have corresponded with Mr. Berna and provided some additional information as far as our plans for the property. And I think that was I'm happy to answer any questions. I hope that was satisfactory. OK, what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the city council?
 I will just say that I appreciate the developer pass along the information to us and I've passed along the property owners and that unless something comes out tonight that I'm not expecting I think everyone's comfortable with moving forward. Okay. Thank you. Oh, we're fixing to find out. Now take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have the five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It's on the third and final reading.
 oh there's nobody on i'm sorry it's okay just wanted to make sure everybody knew there's nobody with their hand right okay all right so i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council what actions do you like to take final comments we're on third read well we should just move to what we don't need we're on the third reading all we got to do is vote now sarah did you have some time no okay i'm just kidding there's not any final comments
 Carriage, please call the roll. Erd? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's move along to new business.
 Number one, a resolution to approve the 2023 fire and police pay and benefits study prepared by J.E.R.H.R. group and to adopt the 2023 fire and police step pay plans.
 Yes. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Council. Last week, we presented the 2023 Fire and Police Survey. As you know, we alternate surveys between the fire and police. And then at the end of this year, we'll be doing a merit survey as well. As a result of that survey, we are bringing forward the recommendation to adopt the fire and police pay set plans that are in your packet. Right.
 and we are also bringing forward a recommendation to implement a compression study adjustment for merit staff That was done as part of a survey that we did at the end of last year And I have Blair here with JERHR if we have any questions about the survey or process What questions do we have in the council? Okay Then let's take some
 public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this in the chamber?
 Hello, I'm Justin Pinalto. I'm the treasurer with the Fayetteville Firefighters Association. We had to reach deep into the bullpen for me to get up here today, but I want to start off by thanking all parties involved in this most recent pay study. We want to thank our fire administration, our city administration.
 the HR department and you, Mr. Mayor, for the hard work and dedication of our fire department and our members. Our goal is to better this department and to better serve the city of Fayetteville, and we believe the implementation of this study will help drive us forward. This will mean a lot not only to our firefighters, but their families as well. Again, council, thank you for support and your consideration. This means a lot to us. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'M SURE YOU'LL HAVE A THOROUGH PRESENTATION. PRESENTATION. PRESENTATION. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU, MAYOR. KYLE SMITH, 2801 WEST DOVE KYLE SMITH, 2801 WEST DOVE KYLE SMITH, 2801 WEST DOVE DRIVE. DRIVE. DRIVE. EXCUSE ME. EXCUSE ME. EXCUSE ME. LOOKING THROUGH, THERE WERE A LOOKING THROUGH, THERE WERE A LOOKING THROUGH, THERE WERE A LOT OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THE LOT OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THE LOT OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THE AGENDA. AGENDA. AGENDA. I'M SURE YOU ALL GOT A PRETTY I
 And it's kind of a staggering jump. It's a one-year increase of $12,000 to $15,000 per step. Wow.
 Now, I'm all for pay raises for the staff, but that's pretty humongous for a big chunk of employees for the city. And I hope that when we see on the next item the whole pay plan for merit employees, that I hope that that looks comparable. Otherwise, that raises some questions about just...
 EQUITY AMONG THE STAFF AND HOW WE KEEP OUR DEPARTMENTS THAT ALL SERVE THE CITY ALL KIND OF BALANCED AND FAIR. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS US? SUSAN DO YOU HAVE ANYBODY BY ZOOM? NEW SPEAKER NO, SIR. NEW SPEAKER OKAY. WELL, THEN I WILL BRING THIS BACK TO THE COUNCIL.
 This is a resolution, so. I think we approved the resolution. Second. Wait just a minute. Sarah, go ahead. Before we do that, I have been getting lots of calls from people that work for the city that have either a misunderstanding of how this is going to pan out, and it's not that I'm against this or anything, but I'm just wondering if we, since we've got this other thing coming along,
 Do we want to answer some of these questions and take another, I mean do we have to approve this tonight? Is it something, and it's not that I'm not in favor of it, it's just that I feel like we have a lot of people that are feeling that this maybe isn't equitable and maybe I'm not the best person to explain it to them.
 And that's just my take on it. Well, all I'm saying is the timetable, we normally try to hit early period in April for the actual increases. We're under a real time crunch. We normally are by the time we get the study and by the time we prepare the numbers and bring it forward. And if we do hold it, we're going to delay the implementation of the plan. So I can speak to that.
 I would be, I'm sorry. Go ahead. I agree with Sarah. I mean, I'm new coming in in January. I haven't been sleeping since I've been digesting this because I have been talking to community members. I've had city staff that have reached out that have a lot of concerns about equity. I'm also concerned about our fiscal responsibility. We approved a lot of new positions into the 23 budget, which are, you know,
 a huge investment and adding this on with the unknowns of the additional investments we might face in the future, especially if we want to create an additional equity, not knowing what those additional changes would be. But we also, you know, we're in March of this year and, you know, we didn't have a crystal ball whenever we faced the pandemic. And Paul, whenever you shared with us, you know, the kind of sales tax, you know, the
 returns that we need to have ongoing. I mean, there's no guarantee of those coming in. And so I think between both pay plans, I believe it's $7 million investment that we're looking at. That's a significant increase in investment to our general fund. And so for those reasons, I had more pause. It's not that I really do feel that I value labor. I think really making sure that folks are making a fair wage is important.
 I'm also hearing a lot about individuals that are struggling who serve our city to live within the area of Fayetteville. And so I'd like to explore that further, too, to understand whether or not city staff are going to get to the point that are outside of police and fire with a compression to be able to afford to live in this area. I mean, some of the folks that clear roads and come in during bad weather.
 you know, live in other places remotely like Wesley and Elkins and places like that. I'd love to be able for them to afford to live within our community. And it feels like the time to talk about that's now before we invest and spend all these funds in the event that there is some constraint of how much we really can put towards total pay. I have a question and a comment. I've heard from students as well, and I recognize some of the
 the challenges and I respect those challenges. But my other concern is also health and safety. And we have to make sure that we, when you talk about equity, we have to make sure that we are just, it's making sure that those positions that we consider essential
 that we are doing the right thing. I do understand that when we look even at Springdale, when we look at the police department, when we look at Springdale, when we even look at Prairie Grove, someone told me that Prairie Grove police officers are making more than us. And I, I, I talked to many people and you're right. There are a lot of people that cannot afford to live in Fayetteville.
 And so I think that right now I'm inclined to, I'm ready to support this tonight because I think that it's long overdue. I think that especially based on the knowledge that I have, seeing the things that I've seen as it relates to even during COVID, how our officers and the fire department, they went beyond the call of duty. And it's also disturbing to me that our police department is,
 I think, and I could be wrong, but the least paid of throughout this region, I think that we are the lowest paid. And I think that we all agree that our officers have gone beyond the call of duty. And I also believe that it's it.
 We are facing a crisis, and I think we know that crime is going up, has gone up. So I think that we have to do what we need to do tonight to protect the best interest of the citizens of Fayetteville, because I would be concerned if this was delayed any longer, because health and safety is a huge concern for me and those individuals that I've spoken with. Okay, Scott. As a business owner, it's my responsibility to have my finger on the pulse of what the market is.
 dictates for my employees. I equate that to Mayor Jordan, and I applaud you for having your finger on the pulse of what's required out there. You don't have to guess. All you gotta do is look at the numbers. We have other communities that are paying more than we are. Our citizens require, they demand our top quality law enforcement. They demand a top quality fire department.
 The only way we're going to have that is if we step up to the plate and pay top dollar. Do we have to like that number? No, I don't like having to pay the salaries I pay right now, but I want the best employee. And if I want that, I have to compensate them for that. So I am more than happy to support this tonight and hope that we can push this through.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I was just going to ask Missy how you communicate with the other employees, because I think we all got at least a couple of emails where there was kind of a misunderstanding of how this worked and how the how we alternate years and that sort of thing. So I just wondered what that process looks like and if you provide time for employees to come in and have a further conversation with you.
 Well, employees can always have a further conversation with me and probably do quite a bit. But if I could just go back to the survey process, the survey itself is looking at the actual data. We talked about the methodology last week.
 So the numbers are coming from what is happening in police and fire. What I heard from the emails that I believe you received were some questions about they didn't know about the compression adjustments and things like that. That information was placed in an email or a memo that came out from the mayor. But I'm not sure because we've never done a compression study before. To my knowledge, they probably did not know what that was.
 So, you know, could we explain that better? Absolutely. And so the plan is once we get approval, we will put together spreadsheets that identify each department,
 every staff member what they're eligible for as long and the merit pool. And the one thing I wanted to say about the 6% merit pool, which I've not even presented, that's Paul's item, is that number that we are coming up with is an addition to that compression adjustment. And that is by far better than any of the Northwest Arkansas cities.
 here in Northwest Arkansas. So when you do look at equity, we are, even though it's not time to survey our merit staff, we are looking at what the other city councils have approved for Bentonville, Rogers, and Springdale, and they all approved 6%. They also did not do any compression study. So we are going above and beyond to our peers.
 So, I'm sorry, Teresa. Thank you, Missy. I really just wanted to understand how that all worked and why there was a misunderstanding with this. So, that clears things up quite a bit.
 I also just want to say that I think we need to remain competitive with our fire and police force. You know, those are really dangerous jobs. There's a lot of risk involved. There's a lot of extra training that maybe some other staff doesn't have to perform. And we we need to keep our best and brightest folks here. So thank you again. Thank you. Thank you.
 My question was, so they were notified of this process. And from what I understand, it rotates each year. So nothing's changed about that, has it? No, we will start the process typically around August. We start doing the methodology meeting with all the department heads, and
 That's when we can identify maybe new market factors that are happening, maybe new competition that's out there that we haven't looked at in our job descriptions before. And then we start that whole process and we usually bring it forward at the beginning of the year, just the same time next year. So it doesn't sound like an issue with equity. It just sounds like maybe some miscommunication because you're.
 they will have the same opportunity next year. And this is how it's been done historically. Right. So if you adopt the step plan, the step plan will be in effect for this same step plan will be in effect for fire and police next year when we bring you a structural change for merit staff. That's a result of the next study. When was the last time the fire department and the police department had a raise? Yes.
 They receive a step raise every year. The structure has not changed for two years. So therefore every other year we're bringing forward what the market is doing and making the recommendation. Do we take into account the additional add-ons with the bonuses and with different certifications and longevity, kind of the total all-in when we're looking at the market study?
 We do. It's not in this base pay number that you see on your step pay plans because we're doing apples to apples with the other cities. But in your packet, there's a breakdown of the other incentive packages and certs and assignment pay and things like that. And I think I mentioned an agenda session. I'm actually going to be bringing forward something for the fire department at the next agenda session as a result of looking at those factors.
 So we have, as council members, throughout this process, we have the opportunity to reach out and ask any questions before now, right? Absolutely. And I've been blessed to hear from quite a few of you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm so glad you're blessed. I feel better already. People have concerns about my salary, Mr. Mayor, and so I can understand that there would be concerns in the room. I view the issue as twofold. One is simply the timing of...
 and every other year survey with a year of inflation. If this timing were reversed, we would be in fact seeing a significant cost of living increase by virtue of inflation for our non-sworn employees. And we would have concerns being expressed to us by sworn employees. And that's literally just the luck of the draw and it's no one's fault. It's just life and the way things move. And next year is a catch up year.
 I commend the organization for pursuing the 6% simply because of inflation running at about 8%. My take on the issue is that it is regrettable, it's an expense, it's a normal general fund expense, and the problem if we don't keep up with the labor market is when you lose staff to other organizations
 and they're sworn personnel, it's the equivalent of two years of salary just to train that person. And you're paying their salary while they're going through that training. So you're looking at an inordinate cost to the community if we lose personnel. And for that reason alone, I'm able to support this. It's a big gulp, but it's a big gulp and I'll be voting yes. Thank you.
 And so that's a really good point, Mike, and I think it actually, I would say for some positions it's going to take a lot longer than two years because you lose that institutional knowledge and all of that stuff, so it's not that I am not supporting this, it's just that
 In the past two days, I've probably gotten 10 phone calls from people in different departments that have questions that I can't really answer because I'm not the HR person. I try to direct them in the right, you know, put them in the right direction. And they're, you know, they're just asking questions.
 And could I ask them earlier? No, because I just got them, you know. And they're telling me, some people have told me that my supervisor, my direct supervisor said X, Y, Z. And I'm like, hmm, sounds like maybe, and we have this every time. We have, I've been here for a couple of pay raises and pay studies and it seems like it happens every time that we have a kind of a breakdown in communication and people feel
 being treated fairly in other departments and we have to look at, you know, all the departments too. And it's not that I don't support police and fire. It's just that I've been hit pretty hard in the past couple of days with questions I just, I can't answer when, you know, when people are asking them. So I want to make sure that everyone's treated fairly and, and that they're, they get the explanations that they need. And some of our, you know, some of the
 Some of the people that I'm talking about work the lower, not the low-end jobs, but the jobs that they're in transportation or they're working street crews and things like that. So they may need a different type of explanation than another department would. Anyway, but I feel comfortable with it if you can get with everyone and extend the
 You know, I mean, just sit down and talk to everybody as much as possible, probably more than once, more than twice, maybe even just, you know, make sure everyone is feeling good because in one department in particular, and I think it's transportation, we're 15 or 17 people down. So, you know, and that's not the same as police and fire, but you know, you want your road paved.
 That's why we gave the amount that we did because we're a little bit higher than anybody else in the region in the non-uniform. Is that right? Yes, the 6% is equitable to what everyone else was doing. The compression study is in addition to that. And I don't think people understand what compression study is. I would agree with you on that. I don't think they understand that. They just see this number and they think that it's not going to be fair somehow.
 So anyway, that's all I wanted to say. Is anybody else getting these questions or is it just me? No, I'm getting them as well. I got one. Okay. Can we...
 it might be helpful well definitely for me and if can we go through what a compression study means in a layman's terms that'll be well since I have the expert here I'm gonna ask him to just step up and talk about what's like that
 I should have asked that at an agenda session to get it to the public, but let's ask it here. We have lots of people that, yeah. So a couple things happen with pay compression. Sometimes it occurs when the structure moves up and you have new people coming in that are closer to employees that have been here a year or two, maybe three or four years. And so they're butting up against each other.
 And so that's why we look at time and position to make sure that we understand how long that person's been in the job. And can I differentiate that compared to someone who just walked in the door and create some separation. So pay compression is one, that's one of the ways. The other is where you have employees butting up against supervision, supervisors, because just the dynamics of the position, the technical nature of the position is causing them to move up
 and it's starting to butt up against the supervisor role. And so we have a couple ways that we can address that issue, either create some separation from a supervision standpoint, position that supervising maybe have at least two grades separation, so that addresses that pay compression.
 But for all of it, we use a time and position because we want to make sure from an equity standpoint that we're giving credit for time and position. And those who have been here longer in their position should be, from a pay compression standpoint, not butting up against someone who's just walked in the door. All right. Thank you.
 That was one of the things that I did not want to happen. I didn't want somebody coming in that's a brand-new staffer, that's somebody that's been with us three or four years, and they're making about the same amount. I didn't think that was fair because seniority does mean something to me and loyalty to the city. So that was one of the reasons why I didn't want this. I wanted us to do a compression study and be sure whatever starts is right on up the chain.
 And when we went out for this study, I mean, would you like to explain how the study was done? That you looked at the fire and police and what everybody's making in the region, correct? Yes. Yeah. And one of the reasons why we're behind is because we wait until all the other districts, all the other cities have issued their new pay plans for the year.
 So naturally we're going to be in a position where we're behind because they've already implemented, they're ahead of you by a month or two with their new pay structures. We intentionally do that so then that way we're not implementing let's say in December and then all of a sudden we're losing ground in January, February because we implemented last year instead of this year. So when you hear that you're behind, that's not what you want to hear. What you want to hear is that we're behind.
 We're looking at current pay scales and making sure that we're going to match those or exceed them. Once we did that, I don't know if you covered this in the packet, I apologize if I overlooked it. What's the lowest hourly rate that we'll have folks across? I know this is the next item with the compression study, but since we're talking about it, do you remember what the lowest floor is that we'd have someone at? You're talking about for merit staff right now?
 In regard to looking at, right, correct. I guess what are the floors that we've looked at once we've done the study? Like what's the lowest floors of what individuals would be making in these roles? It's going to vary, I guess, across. But I mean, is any, I mean, well, I guess what the lowest amount, I guess I'm not verbalizing this very well. I apologize.
 So we have a job grading system. Right. So are you asking what the lowest rate a person would come into the city in one of those merit job grades? Correct. Yes. Currently the lowest for a full-time staff member is $15. Okay. Will that be impacted then by the study that went forward? Is it coming up to $15 or will it be?
 Are you talking about the merit study that will start later? Sorry. I'm sure that it will. I mean, what happens is we take a look at all the job grades and do our study, and then we recommend moving the structure a percentage, the entire structure, based on what we're seeing in the market and all of those cities that we also calculate in. Okay.
 Thank you. I will say that I got some of the same correspondence. And then I reached out to MISI to make sure that I was communicating correctly to the employees about the potential 6% as well as compression study that was being done. In each instance that I communicated back to them.
 their response back to me was, oh, okay, great, I didn't understand that. So I do think that there was maybe a lack of communication, which a lot of times you get in these type of situations. But for what we're talking about right now for this particular item, I think one of the things that we're also missing and needs to be talked about is the fact that
 We have senior employees, police officers, fire department employees that have been here for years that have led this department, both police and the fire, to the standards that we are right now that are nearing, quite frankly, are nearing retirement. And if they walked out right now and retired, we've got a big hole to fill.
 And by this incentive pay increase, it's an assumption on my part, but I think I'm pretty on target. It may solidify those senior ranks to continue to build our department and improve the lower ranks.
 to bring them up to the standards that they have brought themselves to. So I think it's a win-win for us, and I will wholeheartedly support this, even though I don't like the number. I think it's a number we have to live with and we have to adjust to, so it is the market. Yeah, I think that's a good point because here's what you want. You want to have the best of the best, and if you're going to have the best trained, you don't want poorly trained athletes.
 substandard police department or fire department. You want the best of the best. And what I wanted to do is to make sure that we were being competitive with everybody in the region. It's about recruitment and retainment.
 And you've got to look at those two factors. And is the number extremely large? Yes, it is. But that's what the price that you pay for doing business in a competitive market, particularly in northwest Arkansas. So and to be honest with you, all that stuff is okayed by me.
 So I guess if anybody wants to blame anybody, it would start with me trying to be competitive with everybody in the market. I've always supported our fire and police. And I wanted to be sure that the the non-uniform people was paid a decent wage. I mean, I can't remember a time that we weren't had enough money where we could do six percent for the non-uniform employees.
 maybe years and years ago when the council, but we want to be competitive. And this is what it takes, council, to be competitive in the market that we're in right now. You don't want, you want the best people and that's going to cost money. I think, I feel, I mean, if everybody's gotten the, you know, some of the same
 I guess somebody had me on speed dial for these things, but if we're getting everything explained well to all the different departments about what this means, and I tried to explain it as best I could, but I still kept getting calls.
 I think I agree with everything's been said. I think we have to, if you want to retain the best people, you want to bring in the best new employees in these departments, you're going to have to pay accordingly and offer the benefits that will entice those people to come here. And stay here. Yeah. But also entice the people that have the experience.
 top of the pyramid, the experience and everything to stay here because you can't have a constant flux of people coming and going. So I know that was a personal experience.
 Hang on, just DeAndre, you had? Seeking help. Okay. So one thing I wanted to commend you on, and maybe this could be helpful to incorporate in future communication with staff, is that we wait till the other cities set their rates. I mean, that's a smart strategy. We're not driving the market upward. We're responding to it and maintaining our competitive edge. So thank you for that explanation tonight. I think that's really critical for,
 our employees to understand And that window of time is only two months so we're not waiting six months or a year To make that adjustment within a couple months, so we're not losing ground too much ground during that period of time Thank you and
 I just wanted I want the voters in Fayetteville to know that this is not an issue with equity and that we value all of our employees and that it is a breakdown in communication. So I really appreciate you explaining that tonight. And I also want everyone to know that when we're talking about receiving phone calls, I get phone calls all the time and my phone calls are centered around health and safety.
 I get calls every week. I've gotten a lot of calls and emails this week about health and safety. And that's something that we can't compromise. And we may not like the number, but it is what it is.
 And there is no, you cannot put a price tag on that and you can't make this political. And so I think that, and I'm not the only person to say this, but I know that we have the best police and fire department in the state and we should wanna keep that. And I think that they've done everything that they can working in these conditions, COVID and other cities receiving more money and all the political stuff.
 But putting that aside, how they work, and I know some of them are putting in a lot of hours, and many of them, because they are more educated, they are more well-trained, that's what we want in Fayetteville. I've lived in a community where that wasn't the case, and we all know how that goes. And so we can't, I don't want that to happen here in Fayetteville. So Mayor Jordan, thank you for bringing that forth. I know that this is not a popular subject, but it's reality.
 And we don't live in popularity. We live in reality. And so I'm encouraging everyone to turn their thoughts and their concerns inward. And let's focus on Fayetteville. And let's do what we can to make Fayetteville more equitable and a safer place for all of us. Thank you. Thank you.
 do we have a motion i believe we have a motion in a second already we do i think and i said okay well well i guess we've heard several final comments do you have anything else you want to add i'll add one more thing i know that when i call 9-1-1 i want the best
 to respond, not the second best, not the third best, the best. That's just how we do it, and it's a data-based decision. It's based on data. It's not a random number. This is information that we've invested to find what is the best number, so that's why I'm supporting it.
 And it is also what our, it's what our citizens expect. They expect the best. And we try to provide the best. And we're going to get to the merit. We're going to get there. We're going to start another study. Because we want the best, the best staff as well. We want the best everywhere. We want the best all around. I agree with DeAndre. I think we have the best police and fire departments in the state. And I want to keep it that way. So this is what it takes. Thank you.
 All right. There's no other comments care. Would you please call the roll? her Yes, it's bird. Yes, our beans. Yes Jones. Yes more no Whitaker yes Verna yes, yes Okay. Thank you all now. Let's move on to number two. I
 A resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $3,800,000 to facilitate the citywide 2022 employee compensation adjustment. Paul? Well, we had some discussion last week about exactly financially what this would need, what the impact is.
 And I'll just review a couple of significant points. First off, the impact on the general fund just for this year is $4.7 million. The impact going into the future annually next year will be $6.5 million. The total impact this year for all funds, general fund plus all the other funds, utility funds, et cetera,
 will be $5.5 million and annually that will be an impact of $7.5 million.
 If we look at this, I'm requesting a budget adjustment of $3.8 million. That's scattered throughout all of the funds. We had $1.7 million impacted for salary increases, so $5.5 million we need. We had $1.7 million. Now we're asking for additional $3.8 million at this point in time.
 If we look at just the general fund, which is the basic impact of salaries, that's where most of the people are that work for the city of Fayetteville. And we would say we need to fund this strictly with sales tax alone. And I'm just picking sales tax because that's our largest revenue source. We would have to increase 8.25% compared to 2022 collections. All the other revenues come in as budgeted.
 Another 2022 sales tax revenue was 7.27 over last year. That's a little bit, but that equates to $40,000 difference. 1% to the general fund is roughly $400,000 a year. So we're behind a little bit, but not totally. Average increase in sales tax over the last two years were 12.6%.
 Over the last five years, we're 7.3%. And over the last 10 years, 5.6%. Now, you've heard me every month when I give you the report to tell you I don't think sales tax is going to be at the same level.
 However, when we're really looking at this, we feel that we should reasonably be able to impact and pay for this plan. If it's not, we're going to have to look at making adjustments or looking at revenue more carefully, but we'll do what we need to do. But at this point in time, we feel it's affordable.
 The general fund surplus for last year, for 2022, I'm not done closing it in fiscal year, but we're getting close. We had about a 4.5% surplus for the year. These are all numbers we talked about before, but I thought I'd just re-emphasize them. So we closed last year with a surplus. Now every year when we close the books, we not only look for and hope we have revenue increases there,
 to provide for a surplus, but we don't spend 100% of the general fund normally or any of the funds. So those funds are kind of lapsed too and that's how we come with surplus. So there's no way of really predicting that with any accuracy because it just depends on how the year goes. But I think we certainly have a reasonable expectation that we're able to pay this.
 with our current revenue sources going forward. We'll do what we need to do, and I'll advise the council on a monthly basis where we are and how we're looking. Certainly this is a large number, as Sarah pointed out to us, it is. But these are very difficult times. The...
 The wage rates throughout the country are very, very high. We expected some of these estimates to come in high. They're a little higher than I thought they were. Also, I do want to add, before I close...
 That since Mayor Jordan's been here, normally for the non-sworn personnel, for the employees, we've normally budgeted about 4%.
 Okay, that's been almost the same every year between three and four percent this year We're budgeting six percent. So that is a pretty reasonable increase and next year We'll have the actual numbers when we do the comparisons to the study like we've done Like we've done in the past. So I think we've tried to address The administration has certainly tried to address everybody Everyone is going to have
 you don't treat everybody equally and you can't do everything for everybody. But I think we've done the best we can to provide salary increases for everybody on a reasonable basis. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have? Okay. Now we take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone. Okay.
 from the public or any council members stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber on this? Susan, do you have anybody on this? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. It takes a motion and a second. What discussion would you all like to have?
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. Chair? I just had a question of Paul. I'm sorry. I wasn't fast enough on my button. I apologize.
 I had an itch and then I missed my button. So we are making these decisions. And I understand that a lot of thought and a lot of effort has gone into this. And I know I've worked with you over the years just as a community member, and I know how diligent the effort is to make sure that we're being fiscally responsible. So I do wanna make sure that I acknowledge that for sure.
 We also, we talk about normality and talk about, you know, normally this is what we do. I feel like the pandemic has really shook on its head what normal is. I don't know what normal is anymore. And I think we just continue to be in different times. I don't know if this is the new normal or what we're tagging it.
 And we've been incredibly blessed in our communities to be quite insulated from the impacts of the pandemic in a lot of respects, especially with our economy. But I have, since I've sat on this council seat on January 3rd, heard you utter the term recession many times and some cautionary being concerned that there could be some constriction. I guess my question to you is just.
 wanting to understand in the event that the projections are not coming in and we've approved this what mechanisms will would be faced with as council members to make sure that we can make these these pay commitments
 Well, absolutely. First thing we look at, that's why we have reserves. We're in a pretty good reserve position, as I discussed last week. I estimate at this point in time we'll end up with about $16 million in general fund reserves that are
 that are on assigned at this point in time so the first thing you'd look at yes there's a reserve position now if we look at this uh... we're talking about five point five million dollars we could stretch that out telepoint that your revenue sources come in this is one reason you build reserves and one reason you want surpluses that goes off the flexibility to address the ups and downs in revenue and of course in government that's always going to happen
 So the first thing we look at is reserves. If not, we need to look at some other type of revenue source that we may be able to invoke at that point in time. We're not at the max of our tax property tax extension, something like that could be looked at at that point in time. We would also certainly look at not only where we are
 As far as the revenue, we'd also look at where we are at the expenditures, and we could take a look and see if we can cut anything there to make some reduction. So those are the things we would look at. So number one, you're going to look at your reserve position to see if you can cover it in a reserve position. Then you're going to kind of look at what your expenses are, see how your expenses are coming in, if there's anything that can be accommodated there, cut back. And your last thing you would look at is any other type of revenue source. Does that answer your question? Yes.
 Just to clarify, so on the general fund reserve, the $16 million, those are available dollars or some of those protected as far as what we have to have in our accounts to cover a certain amount of needed expenses? Yeah, well, the $16 million I'm talking about, that's available. Now, that's all in cash. So those are liquid reserves. It would take a while to get to that position. But that's roughly what we could have to address these types of situations.
 And Paul, while you're up there, I just wanted to verify, as with the police and fire, we made sure we're paying our employees at the top of the market. So we keep our best employees. We're also doing the same with our merit employees with this raise and the compression factor. Are we have we identified that we are again paying our employees?
 at market rate? Well, we haven't fully identified that because that's what that pay study is for. We didn't have a complete pay study. From what we had indicated in the area, we felt that's what the increases were in the area which should keep us in the same relative position. Next year, when we get another study done, we'll go in a comparative position.
 Blair, do you have anything to add to that? You're the expert in here more than I am.
 The other process is every couple of years to make sure you address your pay scale because you don't want to get behind on the pay scale. And you also want your employees paid to be at a higher rate than the pay scale, because if your employees are being paid and have adjustments that are equal to the movement of the range, then that creates compression. So we want to make sure that we're moving the schedule and evaluating it every other year for each group.
 because then that gives us an opportunity to see how we're doing and what kind of adjustments do we need to make to the schedule. But without this study, which will be next year, you have an educated opinion that we are paying our employees
 a commensurate rate for the top of the market? Yes, because what we do is we take the variance to the market and apply that to the schedule so that our midpoint on the range is what we call a competitive midpoint.
 Okay. And the schedule corresponds with that. And it's only through the process of evaluating the market that we make that adjustment. I just wanted to make sure that we bring out the point that we are supporting our police and fire, but we're also supporting to make sure our merit employees are taken care of as well. Correct. We usually dish out four this year. We're doing six. Tracy.
 So I just wanted to, for Paul to reiterate for city council members and especially new members, that the magic number here is we need to have 8.25% increase over last year's revenue, sales tax, right? And sales tax, if we only consider sales tax, remember sales tax is 60% of the general fund. 40% of the general fund is every sources together. Right.
 they need to equal the $3.8 million in the general fund. But if we only look at sales tax, and I picked that because that's our largest revenue source, that's 60% of our revenue. If we do, we need to keep that 8.25% for revenue to fully fund it. So, Paul, you're very good about giving us monthly updates every month, and I just hope that you keep reminding us that's the magic number that we need to hit in order to afford this and stay competitive here.
 Yes. Well, what I do is I also try to keep you informed, not only sales tax, the rest of it. So what we really need to look at is general fund and see what the general fund total is. And that's that's going to be the key to that. But I will make a note to make sure that we discuss that each each month. Thank you, because I agree this is a big leap, but we have to do it. I just don't see any any other way. So thank you.
 Government is very labor intensive. Labor is our most valuable thing that we can supply services to the people. And I think we all need to understand that. I know you all do because you're all here from the public. But I certainly feel that way and I know that Lionel feels that way. Paul, I'm sorry. Before you leave, I have another thought. You made me think of something else. I'm sorry. Thank you. Sure.
 So one of the things that I've heard a lot is that our budget is a living, breathing document, changes over time. And we can't foresee additional needs that might come up. I know city attorney is asking for a new role, and then that will have to be graded out and added to the budget. If the item that passed previously and if this item passes, what kind of headroom do we have going forward? What's your outlook on additional headcount or needs for additional staffing that might present themselves? Sure.
 GOING THROUGH THIS BUDGET SEASON BEFORE WE HAVE THE 2024 BUDGET I ASSUME YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT WELL WE KNOW WE HAVE THE HEAD COUNT THAT THAT
 that city attorney is looking at it as far as that i don't see any other head count however we are going to bring forward a plan in addition to this one talking about the benefits for the fire department part of what we looked at was not only not only straight salaries but we all also looked at where we are in benefit package so we will be bringing forward a benefit package
 for the fire department. The only headcount that I'm looking at right now is the city attorney, which is on Knight's agenda. I don't know the exact cost of that. Okay, so I want you all to get that because there's going to be a benefits package that's going to come along for the fire department. I talked about that at the agenda session last week. And also, we've got old pension funds that we're going to have to address, counsel.
 So I'm not going to hold anything from you here. And I will assure you, and Paul will tell you this, if the mayor's pushed into a corner where he has to make cuts, I don't usually hesitate in making cuts. We're going to keep everything within the price without. Sometimes you have to make some tough decisions. So I want everybody to be prepared for that too.
 but i think everything's going to be okay and if it's not we'll improvise and adjust okay mr mayor yes if i may oh yes i'm sorry yes go ahead thank you thank you um
 My understanding is the percentages, the dollar amounts, that's the fully funded as if every position were filled for the entire year. That's correct. From my experience, part of what every municipal and state government is dealing with through the COVID years is a
 Lack of the normal recruiting pool from which we're able to draw employees. And so, you know, I'm not no slight to the fire chief, but I believe we have, for instance, 23 vacant positions in the police department. That's part of why it's such a big number is because. I.
 The social norms around that professional career field have changed during our lifetime. And so recruiting quality individuals to that career field is different than it was five years ago. And so the entire world is responding to that challenge of recruiting. And it's the same for civilians as well through the COVID years.
 Missy is so blessed, I sent her an article that basically identified that every municipal government is more challenged to recruit for every single position. A career in government is not quite what it was in the past or the perception of that. And so, again, I would say it's a big gulp for us.
 But as a percent of positions vacant, I fully predict that we will end the year with sufficient number of vacant positions that I'm comfortable with your sales tax need projections being the max to fully fund every dollar, every benefit for the year and.
 we will end the year with vacant positions that we are not able to competitively fill. And you are no Pollyanna. I have learned that over the course of a year with you. You are no Pollyanna. And I just feel comfortable with the projections that you've made being realistic. Thank you. Well, that's my last comment that I made. We don't spend all of our budget normally, so that would be factored into that, but you're right. We will probably have some open positions and we manage all that.
 But certainly, we'll certainly, I'll certainly keep you informed of where we are as we're going forward. We will certainly keep you informed because Paul and I go over finances often, often. And so every month we get that sales tax report in and if it's not,
 where it needs to be. We try to make whatever adjustments we need to make. Maybe we don't panic for one thing. I've learned one thing in this business, you don't get too, as my granddad would say, wrapped around the axle. That's why fund balance is important. That's why we have reserve. We're going to have ups, we're going to have downs. We need to manage it and get it on a level playing field. Are there any other questions for me?
 Thank you. Okay. Have we got a motion in a second? Here we do, don't we? Okay. Have you all got anything else you would like to say? I just, I appreciate all the discussion. I just wanted to say thank you for answering the questions and for, you know, again, I mean, it is a big number and I do feel a lot of responsibility around that and to not sleep at night and, you know, to know. I understand.
 You know, it's one of the struggles that some of our staff are facing. So I appreciate that. I mean, I will be supportive of this, knowing that we're going to stay close to the number and old hands going forward. We'll get you a monthly report, Sarah, and you can always call and ask. I mean, it's always open to you all.
 So anyway, I can understand not sleeping at night. Before you go on to that, one thing I've done is I have called, when he says you can call and ask, not only can you call and ask, but what you can call and ask is you can say, can I come down to your office and sit down face-to-face with you and have you walk me through this?
 from your perspective. Anybody in any of the departments will do that with you. And I do that sometimes or just call and have someone say, what's your take on this? Help me get my mind around this. And they're always super, super helpful. But sometimes it's better to just sit down at the big table and spread everything out and ask your questions and have them explain. And they're really good to do that. No, no, that's fine. All right.
 All right. All right. There's no other comments. Caravage, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay.
 number three a resolution to approve and authorize mayor jordan to sign an arpa funded sub-recipient agreement with serve nwa for supportive and affordable housing any amount of one one million two hundred ninety five thousand dollars and to approve the budget adjustment sir thank you mayor welcome
 So the American Rescue Plan monies were given to our cities and across the country to help
 solve for disproportionate impacts within our communities. I've had the distinct privilege to talk over the years within the community to have cookouts, to be on people's porches and out in the parks, and to get a gauge on what individuals are really asking for us to invest this money into. And the number one thing by far that individuals ask for was housing assistance.
 And so I'm pleased to be able to bring this application forward by New Beginnings, who's been doing work in our community. You know, the tradeoffs, and I understand the council members who have talked about, you know, the fact that personalization,
 purchasing properties that potentially serve eight individuals at right under 1.3 million can be hard to swallow at first blush. But to kind of break down those numbers, I mean, this is a 40-year commitment to affordable housing based on HUD standards of our most vulnerable and lowest income. When you look at studies, and you can Google anywhere and look at our highest utilizers of services to understand that vulnerable populations that are unhoused
 end up in jail populations more often and detention centers. Here locally, yearly, that costs us $30,000 a year. They use more emergency services, about 50,000 a year versus about 10,000 an average
 person on the street. And so really, this ends up both being a response to a humanitarian of us saying that we know we're in a housing crisis and we need to do affordable housing, but it's also a more fiscally responsible approach as well. When you span that money across 40 years, that's about a $32,000 a year investment. And you break that down per person over 40 years, that's a little over $4,000, which
 a really sound investment when you think about what the tradeoffs are of these individuals potentially being encampments and being moved along. I'm very pleased to be able to sit beside Councilmember DeAndre Jones tonight, who also sponsored this, and I'm going to turn it over to him before we send it to Solomon Birchfield. Absolutely. Thank you, Councilmember Moore. I just want to add to what she said. Each
 a birthday celebration and this is something that I do personally. I donate all of my donations to go to the housing to support those who are unhoused. As Sarah mentioned, I've had numerous opportunities to see it firsthand, see it firsthand but not living it firsthand. I remember maybe last year I was driving down the road on Weddington and I saw
 a lady jumped out of the dumpster. And I thought to myself, how can this be in a city that is full of compassion? And how can this be in a city that I represent? And I've had the distinct pleasure again of sharing many conversations and talking with Solomon Birchville immensely about how can we solve this problem? Because as Sarah mentioned, this is a housing, this is a crisis. When I think about the ARPA funding,
 the affordable housing and homelessness resonated. When I talked to people and when people talk to me, they were asking, why is this not a priority? When I think about Ward 1 and when I walk through Ward 1, when I drive through Ward 1, I see the challenges. And I know that there are challenges throughout Fayetteville, but as a Ward 1 representative, I have a commitment.
 And I want to make sure that we do everything that we can to offer homelessness, to offer those individuals who need housing the opportunity. So when I thought about this, I thought about supportive housing. Actually, it saves money spent on housing.
 unhoused people, and when it comes to the emergency room, I work in hospital and jails and shelters. It's chronically homeless people who are in the streets. We see that, and on the trails and in the parks. And if not tonight, how will we address this situation? And we know that this will not solve this entire problem because it's very complex, but this is a great first step
 in the right direction. And I would like to say that when we talk about homelessness, we have to acknowledge that members of our homeless community have disabilities and no one chooses to have a disability. Okay.
 What questions? Mayor Jordan, is it okay if we allow Solomon Birchfield with New Beginnings to come forward and kind of paint a picture for us of what this can look like for our community? Well, let me ask you this. Okay, how long would you need? Solomon, how long do you need? What did he say? Yes, I would like for him to do 10 minutes. Go ahead. Thank you very much.
 Thank you for giving your time and attention to the affordable housing and homelessness crisis we have in our community. My name is Solomon Birchfield. I help lead the New Beginnings community. We're a low barrier, resident run, housing focused community where people begin to recover from chronic homelessness. I remember 13 years ago is when I started working in the homeless care system here. I feel old.
 I started working in a supportive housing program, helping people that had been outside long-term. It was a grant at that time administered through Seven Hills, now run through our city, the Hearth Program. It's a fantastic supportive housing program. Our proposal is really straightforward. We asked for the city to invest $1.3 million in expanding supportive housing in Fayetteville. With these funds, we proposed a purchase
 small quality housing units on the market, rent them to people who have disabilities and have long-term homeless backgrounds at affordable rates. Then we'll pair that housing with support services so that the person recovering from chronic homelessness can ultimately heal, thrive, and contribute. We plan to serve six to eight people the first year and over the lifetime of the project, serve 30 or more people.
 I want to ground the project in the community's need for exactly this kind of intervention. We often have a misconception that homelessness is one group of people that share the same circumstance, but that's not really true. I want to give you my one-minute primer on homelessness. There are three people impacted by the affordable housing crisis and homelessness crisis. The first person is in and out of housing, couch surfing, doubling up.
 Maybe this is a person who's paying not just the 30% recommended of their monthly income on housing, but more than half of their monthly income on their housing. This person is marginally housed or insecurely housed. And there are thousands of people in our community who are that person. The second person is not just on the edge, they've fallen off the edge.
 So they probably spent time in that first group, and now they had a job loss or a health event, and they fell off the edge. They're living in their car. They're staying in an emergency shelter. For both this first and second person, there's a book called Homelessness is a Housing Problem. It's a new book. It's a data scientist and housing expert.
 looking at what cities across the country are seeing and looking at the different variables, the housing market, poverty, mental illness, substance abuse. And what the book finds is that for person one and two, the best thing you can do is to increase housing production. It's mostly a housing, it's an economics issue.
 So reviews of zoning and of development and looking at social housing and community land trust, all these prescriptions are those city level answers for people hit by the affordable housing and homelessness crisis. But there's a third person. The third person is chronically homeless, long-term reoccurring homelessness. Research shows that this person is disproportionately likely to sleep in unsheltered locations.
 much more likely to have lifetime trauma, to have mental illness, to have substance abuse, to have justice system involvement, or to have physical disabilities. Now, don't get me wrong. I know a lot of these people in our community. Don't get me wrong. They're some of the most resourceful, generous, funny people around. But I have sat next to a tent in the snow where someone with paranoid schizophrenia is wrestling with despair. Right?
 holding on to a reason to live. And I shake with rage that we as a community can't move that person indoors. And then I have to leave. So chronic homelessness causes a lot of pain and suffering and death. In fact, we lost a gentleman two days ago who has been chronically homeless. And I could spend the next 10 minutes listing the names of people who have passed away
 chronically homeless. So this is the environment in which New Beginnings launches, about a year and a half ago. We stepped up to say, we wanna open a community where we can welcome chronically homeless people off the street. And let me tell you, there is a lot to be proud of. The individuals staying at New Beginnings not only run the place, we've served about 30 people. We have 30 forms of ID, birth certificates, social security cards, IDs that people have obtained. We have 22 people who've either gotten health insurance
 or have started using their health insurance the first time to go to health care appointments. Six people in counseling. 11 people have gone to work. Some of that is project-based employment, but some is part-time. A couple people, full-time employment. Eight people, now nine, have been approved for disability benefits. They should have long ago. In addition to the others who came in with disability. So there's a lot to be proud of. But what we have not seen is a lot of people move out.
 because we hit this wall of who will rent to someone with the background issues. Where is the affordable housing for this person to move into? Our project we've applied for is the answer to that question. New Beginnings Supportive Housing. The program looks to solve the housing half of the problem and the support services. On the housing side, we will lease these units as low barrier so they are accessible for people working on their credit or criminal background issues.
 We'll offer them at extremely affordable rates because of this large upfront subsidy. We can offer them at rates that are affordable even to people on disability-level income. The rents, they'll pay 30% of their monthly income, and those revenues will support the taxes, the property management, the repairs. On the support services side, New Beginnings will step up to fund, to extend our current services we offer.
 to enhance them and to follow people out into their permanent housing. Currently at New Beginnings, we have nurses, we have a social worker, we have peers,
 that come in and support people. We'll extend that into the housing situation. We also need to include occupational therapy, something we've really learned, offering people life skill coaching around hygiene, clothing management, home management, nutrition, health management. It's a really part of the stability for people in permanent housing. When the tertiary department offered the guidance on spending American Rescue money on housing, he said,
 This is a once in a generation opportunity to invest in affordable and supportive housing. So that's exactly what we put in our application. And I'll close with these three quick thoughts. I want to reiterate what Councilman Jones said. No one chooses to have a disability. And I want to live in a community that prioritizes making sure folks with disabilities have a dignified life. Also want to say supportive housing works. In fact, it's one of the only things that works.
 That means if we choose not to invest in it, we are choosing to have people in the parks, camping along our trails. We're choosing to have litter along the Cretes and people die in the woods. In that way, homelessness is a policy choice more than a personal choice. And lastly, I have learned a great deal
 from my friends and acquaintances without housing over the years. And that's why I've committed to working alongside them, not to take care of them, to work with them, not for them. And I know some people were really scared to come tonight, but a few came to share their story. So I hope you'll listen if they speak during public comment. And I hope you'll vote to take this first big step forward towards a more comprehensive plan to make Fayetteville a place where everybody has a home. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Mayor, I have a question for Solomon. So Council Member Moore talked about this was a 40-year investment. I want to know what New Beginnings timeframe is for their supportive services. How can the city be assured that these supportive services that are really a requirement for
 continue to that lifespan of 40 years? It's a good question. Initially, we wrote the application with a sister application that would have answered that. And so that application is not ready for a vote. This will cost about $50,000 per year for the support services for these six to eight people. A little bit, I'm a conservative estimator, so that's a high number.
 We commit to fundraising that and I am willing, if necessary, to get letters of commitment to back that up before we would sign a contract with the city. I'm that confident that we can find the champions to fund that.
 Also, there are grants that do fund just services. We have one grant already active in our continuum of care. There's no guarantee that we get that, but if we did get that, it would match exactly what this project needs. And there's other grant opportunities that we will be pursuing to provide sustainable funding.
 But can you list partners and, you know, you know how these things go. It's a great idea for five years and then the economy changes or the world changes. And and so I I'm concerned about what happens in year 20.
 Sure. What we've done so far is fundraise behind the services of the 20 people at our shelter. We've partnered with groups like the University of Arkansas Occupational Therapy School for internships and the University of Arkansas Psychological Department for counseling. We have volunteer counselors that also come through. So I think there's a combination
 Support services that we fundraise behind and those letters of commitment I hope would give you peace of mind on that and the partnerships that that provide the the university such an incredible partner to partner those services Solomon I have a question You've worked with seven hills and you've worked with Did you ever work with the Salvation Army? I work closely with okay. How long did you work for seven hills? Oh my about
 Eight years. So you know all about sustainability, don't you? That's true. Yes. Okay. So you've been able to, sounds like you've been able to build on partnerships every year, huh?
 That's one of my gifts is finding and building partnerships. Thank you. And I think with the nonprofits that we have, I think sustainability could be an issue with any nonprofit. Sure. I mean, that question, it's not just this particular project. I think it's any project. And so, but I wanted to highlight your experience and your commitment to doing this work in Fayetteville and your track record for success. And that for me,
 it's trust and i think that you know what we're facing right now i don't know about you but i've never seen it to this capacity in fayetteville so i think that your services and what you are proposing i think it's very timely especially for ward one so thank you thank you scott
 Number one, I applaud you for what you do. You know, it's an amazing service that you're performing, and I applaud you for that. Just a couple of questions. New Beginnings has been active for, did you say a year and a half? Yes, sir.
 And you've served roughly how many? Roughly 30 people. Okay. What is your percentage of transfer out of your program? Not necessarily out, but out and up.
 to a better position. What is your percentage of success? We've had two people move out successfully into really stable, supportive living situations who are still housed. We have had three people pass away with us. A lot of chronically homeless people really are on their last leg. And then we do have a couple of people who ended up going to jail.
 You mentioned, I believe, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought you mentioned somewhere in your presentation that you would envision working with the city's HEARTH program to help with supportive services and stuff. How do you envision that working together?
 Because you did acknowledge that you had a separate proposal that was not brought forward for supportive services. And I was trying to recall what the value of that proposal was.
 So that proposal would have just provided ongoing funding to pay for the support services. I was speaking the monetary amount that you were requesting. I can't recall exactly what that was. 36. Okay. Right. Right. So in that 36, that 45, 50 range. Just to say a word on the HEARTH program, it kind of runs independently. It's a kind of a gold standard, Scattered Site Supportive Housing Program. It means there's subsidy for the individual's rent.
 and there's funding for the support services. It's a renewable grant through HUD. Now HUD, Congress can allocate what they allocate. So even that kind of program is subject to congressional approval. And some challenges are we have, for example, a person on the Hearth program staying at New Beginnings and they've got the program to pay the rent and have the services. It has been since August of 2022
 And even with professional help, we cannot find a unit. And in partnership with Hearth case managers looking for units for this individual to move into that matches the affordability requirements that we'll get to these tenants. So to build off your comments, so I understand that you have the availability, you have a person available.
 ready to move out, the Hearth program would assist with that, but even they can't find a facility or a duplex or a home that would qualify for that person to move in. At this time, yes. Okay, so how would this money change that scenario? When we get to,
 own the housing rather than rent from the private market, we can address both the deep affordability and the renter qualification issue. So many folks with chronic homeless backgrounds do end up going through the justice system, whether it's really minor stuff like littering or public urination or trespassing, these are really common. It also sometimes is a drug possession,
 over the years of their homelessness. That's just a fact. And so the winter qualification barrier is one of those hard ones as well. And when we have the housing for this relatively small group of people in our community, we'd be able to lower those qualifications at the same time that we meet the affordability needs. Thank you. Solomon, can you tell us what the
 what it looked like before New Beginnings. How has New Beginnings made a positive impact for those who may not be aware? Can you tell us what being homeless, what it looked like before New Beginnings and the impact that it's made? And also, too, if you can educate us on the barriers, because we talk a lot about
 hitting a brick wall. And I think that if you're not familiar with homelessness or if you're not marginalized, period, you may not be aware of those barriers. What a barrier for Sonia may not be a barrier for me and vice versa. So if you could speak to that, and because I want everybody to see it, not just
 The money's important, but for me, it's making sure that we address the problem and its humanity. So if you could address those points, then thank you, I really appreciate it. Barriers really are very individual. We work, I have a social worker that works one-on-one with people, transportation sometimes. I'm looking for a unit, but I work
 at the come and go on MLK and what's this transportation situation from where that affordable unit is and my workplace. Another may be criminal background or credit background. Sometimes you've been homeless 18 years, you don't have a landlord that can vouch for you. That's a very common denial. And in our market where it's so competitive, it's immediate. You don't have a credit history, you're denied. There's eight other people that want that unit that do
 So really barriers to stability are another layer of that. A lot of people who have been through trauma, who have struggled with mental illness, it is really just managing life with neighbors. That's one great thing about New Beginnings is we're seeing people manage that life with neighbors, staying on top of their lease, stay on top of their bills, the money management sides. Those can be barriers to maintaining stability in housing.
 As far as what homelessness looked like before New Beginnings, I mean, well, I know for 20 people, it looks 100% different. And there are a couple of those people here tonight, and I think one on Zoom. So we may hear more personally. Thank you. Thank you so much, Solomon. And one last thing, Dr.
 I wanted to say, I feel like, and I know, again, going back to the money, we're seeing the amount of money and the number of people. But I do believe that if we're able to, and I think your number was eight. So just imagine if we're able to get eight people together.
 move out and then get eight other people moved in. And the process will continue because this is so complex. It will not be resolved overnight, but we have to be intentional and we have to be deliberate. And as you mentioned earlier, I'm so glad that you said that it becomes, it's not a, you know, I don't, it's a choice, but tonight it's a policy issue and that's where we are. So thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 All right, Sarah, do you have anything? All right. What questions does the council have for Sarah or DeAndre before I open up for public comments? Nothing? Okay. Then we'll take some public comments. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic.
 Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Good evening. My name is Aaron Marshall. I live at 6081 West Bannister Drive, and I'm the President of the Board of Directors of New Beginnings. I appreciate Mr. Jones, your question. I can tell you exactly what it looked like because on the January morning of 2017,
 I was on 19th Street and saw the 140 people living in cardboard boxes and under tarps. And I took pictures that morning. And I'd been going on the point-in-time census count with Dr. Fitzpatrick for 10 years at that point. And I'd never seen anything like I saw that morning. And I texted those pictures to 10 friends of mine that own businesses in Fayetteville. And I said, guys, something's not working. This is getting worse. And we live here. And we have to fix it.
 And so my wife and I gave the first seed funding and were part of the founding team and we were able to build it. And what I thought we were doing was building a bridge from that camp in the woods back to health and hope and stability. And what we built was an on-ramp to a bridge that still needs to be built. We have more than two people that are ready to move out and there's no place for them to go.
 And so that's the next problem I'm trying to solve is figuring out how we can get our folks who are ready to move out into the next step into a physical context where we can then extend support. And our board had a strategic retreat at our year mark, and we decided we're going to keep continuing to build the path, not just a dead end street, not just a city within a city, but the pathway forward.
 which starts with stepping out of the woods into a cabinet, new beginnings, and then needs to go somewhere. And this proposal is that somewhere next because it doesn't exist. And I've been meeting with developers and friends. At first, Solomon says his favorite thing about me is my impatience. I was just going to go buy a duplex myself and show everybody how to do it. And he said, well, let's find people who can help us and let's keep funding
 The program and the support and you guys have seen Solomon. He's a real deal We wouldn't be where we are today Three years ago when we were going through planning and we stood in this room and got it approved There were a lot of people who were skeptical and who were against it and I was scared to death that it wasn't gonna work but it has it's exceeded all of our expectations and
 And every board meeting, we invite one of our residents in for the first 30 minutes to tell us their story. And I hear about hope and I hear about purpose and I hear about stability and community. And we're doing it. And we're committed as a board and I'm committed personally, financially to see this through and to continue to fund people like Solomon and his team to do what they do. I couldn't do it. I'm with you. I couldn't do it. But I know the guy who can.
 And we have talented people who are able to sit with folks who have been through a lot and love them and teach them and help them take the next step. And so I just urge all of you respectfully and passionately to let us take this step and we'll do our part. Thank you.
 I have to hold my gum. My name is Vivian Reese Hill. I work at the University of Arkansas. I make approximately $15 an hour and I have a master's degree. If my husband dies, I'm going to need to find a different place to live because my apartment costs $1,350 a month.
 It's a two bedroom, two bath, and it's in a nice neighborhood. I actually live at the reserve at Steel Crossing, and it's right there by the mall. And for some of you, I think most city council members are going to know that there's a trailhead at the mall, that it's at the corner of Steel Boulevard and the road that goes around the mall. And if you walk down just a little ways, maybe about...
 maybe a tenth of a mile at the most. There's a homeless encampment there that is so big. And I used to walk there all the time and I had stopped walking. And so I started going again in the winter. It's awful. I took pictures of it and I posted them on Facebook and I've had so many people call me. And the thing that is most disturbing to me is that the trash is, it's a health hazard.
 And I'm scared to walk there except at certain times of the day because I don't want to. I used to go out there at like six o'clock at night, you know, and walk and I never felt any problem. And I'm not saying these people are threatening. I'm saying I am scared. And my main reason for being here is because I have seen hearth funds used for people because I used to be a leasing agent at Jenny Mills Apartments.
 And if you throw money at a project or at a person and you don't give them any support, you're throwing your money away. Everybody that I saw that got hearth funds, they just couldn't make it. They just couldn't. I mean, they they they, you know, lived there, but they didn't have the life skills to manage a home on their own.
 And I think we need to be sure and give serious consideration to this because we have a plan. There's a plan to help people develop the life skills that they need to be able to live on their own. For some of us, this is very difficult to understand, I'm sure. I mean, I'm from the generation that said, you know, get off your butt and get to work. And I understand that, but some people just can't.
 And some people just refuse to do so. They don't want to follow the ordinary norms that we have, that you're supposed to pay for your own housing and you're supposed to do this and you're supposed to do that. And we've created an economy in the United States that prevents us
 not prevent, excuse me, let me choose my words more carefully. We've created a system where you have to work to be able to have a place to live, to be able to have food to eat, so on. You can't go out and hunt all your own food all the time and things like we did back 100 years ago. Now we have to help people because some people grow up in such unfortunate circumstances that they don't even know how to do any of the things that many of us have done
 It's going to get worse as we put less emphasis on education. It's a gigantic issue.
 But one of the ways that we can make it better is if we help people. We're going to have to help with their rehabilitation. We're going to have to help them get into society and be able to afford, to be able to do all of the things that will take for them to get a job where they can afford to live in this town. We also need to consider at some point maybe rent control issues.
 something like they have in New York City, because I don't know that I can afford a decent apartment on $32,000 a year. I'm very concerned about it. But to get to the end of my avocation here is that one of the people that responded to my Facebook post said, is this in Fayetteville? No.
 And it's like, yeah, it's right down the road. I mean, just a walk from my house. And they said, that's not Fayetteville. I said, it is. And it's only going to get worse if we don't support things to help these people. They're part of the community, just like I am, just like you are.
 I don't necessarily want to just take care of them. I want to help them learn how to do it, how to do life. Time. Oh, thanks. Thank you. Hi, I'm Jennifer Cole. I live at 1 North School Avenue in Hillcrest Towers in public housing.
 I landed there because I was homeless, because I got a divorce, and because my mom died, who I was buying a home with. I wasn't homeless long. I was one of the couch surfers. I can tell you it's still scary. And when you're waiting on that list and wondering if you're going to get a home, if you can afford a home, it's pretty scary. There's not any affordable housing out there.
 I'm also disabled. I serve the community in a lot of ways. I volunteer out there. I deal with a lot of homeless and people that are chronically hungry, chronically ill, and chronically in need of housing.
 And what I can say is this problem is not going to go away if we ignore it. We need to find an answer and I believe this is a good answer. The people, I volunteer, I get to cook at New Beginnings and I've got to know the people there. And I've seen that they're doing good work and I've seen that they're taking the steps they need to rehabilitate people that need rehabilitation, that need these support systems and it's all there.
 The only thing we don't have is a space for these people to move to once they're rehabilitated. We don't have that next step. Fayetteville Public Housing is tapped out, and they don't always have an appropriate place for somebody who might be schizophrenic to move into. We need to have better options.
 Vouchers without a place for us to go are useless. So if you could look into your hearts and find compassion and see, take a trip down there and see the good works that are going on there because everybody deserves an affordable place to live and everybody deserves good healthcare. And they're getting them that support. They're getting them the paperwork that gets that support, the phones,
 and all those services that you need that you just can't get when you can't even leave your tent, because if you leave your tent, you're afraid somebody's going to steal everything that you have or your food. So I'm going to keep it brief. You're going to hear from some good people. Thank you.
 GOOD EVENING. MY NAME IS THOMAS BROWN. I LIVE AT 339 NORTH GREG. MAYOR JORDAN AND COUNCIL MEMBERS. OUR 2040 CITY PLAN RECOMMITTED PHAYETTEVILLE TO ACCOMPLISHING ITS ATTAINABLE HOUSING GOAL. OUR EFFORTS TO ACCOMPLISH THIS ATTAINABLE HOUSING
 will require us to address several areas of housing focus, including homeless housing, low-income housing, workforce housing, addressing housing barriers, and equity. The attainable housing issue is complex. The determination of response, priorities, strategies, action items, and programs will need the input
 and commitments from many individuals and organizations. New Beginnings is one of those relevant and committed organizations. They are proposing a program that can present timely and targeted opportunities for the city to demonstrate its commitment by taking action on addressing one of those important areas of attainable housing,
 that is homeless housing. Please give serious consideration to partnering with New Beginnings Organization. So thank you. Thank you, Tom. Hello, my name's Trey Stanley. I just wanted to put a name with a face. I'm homeless. I have been since 2015. I've been a resident of Fayetteville since 1992. I managed to raise a family and
 get them well taken care of before I became homeless. I believe I became homeless as a result of losing my job as a commercial construction superintendent and a divorce. And because I'm a veteran, I was able to get a HUD-VASH voucher at one time, but I wasn't working when I got the voucher. And by the time I started working at the Veterans Administration,
 They were already getting ready to kick me out because I hadn't paid my rent in three months. So I'm up here just to put a name with a face and let you guys know that I need some help. Thank you. Thank you. Hey guys, my name is JoJo. I'm also a resident of New Beginnings. If it wasn't for them, I don't know what would be done. I've lived on the streets for 11 years and I've been with these guys for eight months now.
 I've got a lot of my paperwork dealt with and all that good stuff and I'm getting my disability started. Without this program, a lot of us would not be here anymore. Just like Solomon said, we've lost friends. Just like the other day, we just lost somebody else too. We need these places. This program is for two years and once we get to move out,
 IF WE CAN'T AFFORD AFFORDABLE HOMES, THEN WE'RE GOING TO BE RIGHT BACK OUT ON THE STREETS. I DON'T WANT TO BE BACK OUT ON THE STREETS. YOU KNOW, 11 YEARS WAS ENOUGH FOR ME. SO I REALLY HOPE YOU DO SUPPORT SOLOMON ON THIS. THANK YOU. MY NAME IS VINCENT WADE. I LIVE AT 2566 EAST BAYSIDE CROSSING IN PAYETTEVILLE.
 Mr. Mayor, members of our council, thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. I'm speaking out in favor of New Beginnings and their request for funding. Solomon presented some good facts and figures, as did Council Member Moore and Mr. Jones. I don't have a lot of facts and figures, but I'm grateful for those that do. I'm going to tell you that I'm a proud Fayettevillian.
 In fact, I even have the sticker on my truck to prove it. It says, Proud Fayetteville. Among the many reasons that I'm proud to live in this town is that in 2014, the Charter for Compassion designated Fayetteville as a city of compassion. We're one of only 62 cities in the entire world, the whole world, to get that designation. That's something to be proud of, for sure. Webster defines compassion as,
 as sympathetic consciousness of others' distress, together with the desire to alleviate it. For the last several years, my daughter and I have volunteered with Laundry Love, which is an initiative of New Beginnings, and prior to that, Serve NWA. We've done countless loads of laundry free of charge to anyone with need. The overwhelming majority of our clients at Laundry Love are homeless.
 We've had clients come in who've had their campsites flooded by torrential rains. Their clothes were so muddy, we had to wash them twice. The first wash, the water just turned into soapy mud. Other times, we've had to thaw those clothes out because they were frozen together. We had to thaw them before we could wash them. Can you imagine being so cold and wet that your only few spare clothes are frozen together? Yeah.
 It's right here in Fayetteville, Arkansas, a city of compassion. I've witnessed firsthand what kind of transformation occurs when someone who is chronically homeless is given the opportunity for stability and a fresh start that New Beginning provides. I've seen people that are addicted beyond hope get clean, literally and figuratively. I've witnessed alcoholics sit there 365th day sobered.
 Imagine if we can offer that stability to even more people. Tonight, when you cast your vote, I challenge you to ask yourselves, are you a proud Fayettevillian? Is your vote consistent with our designation as a city of compassion? Are you voting with sympathetic consciousness of others' distress and a desire to alleviate it? Please ask yourself that. Thank you again for the opportunity to speak, and thank you for your service to our town. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Janet Gardner and I live at 1198 South River Meadows. And I am a nurse and I'm the healthcare coordinator for New Beginnings.
 And I've had the privilege and the honor of working with Solomon at Seven Hills as a nursing instructor from the year of A. And then now I am a faculty member at JBU. And we are able to, through the health care coordination, really meet the needs of these people who are amazing people who have had struggles that we can't even imagine. And we...
 So I want to speak to your sustainability piece of it, because I believe as an educator and as a nurse, we have untapped resources in this town that we've just begun to start to use with occupational therapy students coming, with counseling students coming. We're working with the hospitalists at Washington Regional for a volunteer project for them to come and help our clients at New Beginnings.
 All of those services will continue and I'll be part of making sure they continue and having funding that enables more of the
 the organization, so I'm there four hours a week. I can't do a whole lot in four hours a week, but I could do more if I was there 10 hours a week. And part of that funding helps those that, to be able to find the partners that are going to volunteer and organize those services in order for that to be sustainable. So I absolutely think that the sustainability is a huge piece.
 I started taking nursing students to Seven Hills about eight years ago. And that was the first thing that the director at the time asked me. How are you gonna, we have a lot of people that walk, that rotate through these doors.
 are you going to stay? Because that's what working with people who have experienced homelessness, the first thing that you do is you have to establish a relationship. They have to know that they trust me. They know that I'm going to be there. They know that Rebecca Wright, who's our other nurse that goes there, we have their back. We are not going to let them go, and we're going to be there, and then the people that come through us, they trust them because they trust us.
 So, allowing to have the opportunity to create those relationships and to find that sustainability within the educational system and the healthcare system in northwest Arkansas is a huge piece to this puzzle. And I think this is just the tip of the iceberg, and I would love for, to say that on this day, March 7th of 2023, we started building our legacy of respite homes.
 of sustainable housing and supportive housing for people who are experiencing homelessness so that they don't have to have that trauma anymore. So thank you for listening and for your service. Thank you. My name is Anita Crosby. I live at 3512 West Buckeye Street. I am not with New Beginnings. I'm here because affordable housing is a big issue on my heart.
 I have a friend on disability who is spending about three quarters of her disability check on rent for a two-bedroom apartment for her and her child. I have another friend who has a friend who is working who lost his apartment. I don't know why. You yourself said you have people working
 Police officers and firefighters working here who cannot afford to live in this town. We have a problem. Is there anything we can do about it? I'm one person. I don't, I am not a lawyer. I am not, I don't know anything. I'm just a concerned citizen who sees that there are a lot of people who cannot afford to live here.
 And I'm appealing to you all to see if there is anything we can do. Thank you. Good evening again, Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. We give a lot of lip service to having a housing crisis. Sometimes we wonder what we can do about it.
 It is a huge problem and it feels too big to solve. We've heard about enough individual problems tonight to make your head spin and make you wonder how we could ever fix all of that. Our housing affordability problems and our homelessness problems predated the pandemic, but since COVID-19, we've watched them get dramatically worse.
 I wish that when we got CARES money and ARPA money that we had paid the essential bills here at the city and then really put all of that into a massive coordinated effort to jumpstart housing in the city. Instead we did a lot of other smaller, really good, really worthy projects, but it has left us still with folks wondering what can we do about housing.
 And so here we are at the tail end of all of that funding with just a little bit left over. And here's this project that we can put this little bit into. I'm really glad that at the last meeting, y'all recommitted to the 2040 plan. And I'm glad we've got the goals listed on the board again here. We will create opportunities for attainable housing number six. You saved the best for last.
 It's not very often that the city council gets such a direct opportunity to do exactly that. Here's your opportunity to create housing that we can define who it will be affordable to under what conditions and for how long. This is a golden opportunity. I hope you won't pass up.
 And I think I know most of you well enough to know that you won't. And so I'm going to preemptively thank you for your support on this tonight because I expect it to pass. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle. Okay. Okay. My name is Michelle Anderson.
 And me and my husband, Terry Logan, used to sleep on a bench right outside the postage with cover on us, but it was still cold for us to stay out there. So we had to go into the nearest place that would let us go in there and sleep for the night. Sometimes we had to sleep on the bench all night long. And thanks to Mr. Solomon coming to see that my husband was on the bench like he was,
 We got a home to live in for right now, but we need a permanent home to live in together because I'm not going to separate from my husband. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Sarah Bryan and I'm from Ward 1. My name is Sarah Bryan and I've been a resident of Fayetteville for 13 years, specifically living here in South Fayetteville for the last three years. I've also worked at New Beginnings since we opened in September of 2021.
 through my time in south fayetteville i've seen firsthand how fayetteville has changed especially in the last three years and how more and more of my neighbors are succumbing to living on the streets tonight i'm asking you to vote for the new beginnings proposal that will allocate the 1.3 million to purchase duplicates duplexes that will be dedicated to providing homes for our neighbors that are
 recovering from chronic homelessness. Every week at New Beginnings, my residents show up and do the work that we as a society say that they should do to be able to deserve our help. So how am I supposed to tell them that? I'm sorry, you're doing all the right things. There's just nothing suitable for you.
 What does that say about the value that we put on people that rent with vouchers or utilize government assistance? And what does that say about how we feel about people living in poverty? I see a new housing complex being built every few months, but still low-income housing is scarce, resulting in more and more of our neighbors having to succumb to living on the streets, or sleeping on a friend's couch, or sleeping in their car.
 By supporting the New Beginnings proposal, we can not only help our residents find permanent and affordable housing, but we can also start to change the narrative about what it means to restore humanity and people. I invite all of you to look at our residents that are here tonight and tell them why you think that they aren't worthy of safe and affordable housing. Why even though they've done all of the quote-unquote right things,
 And most of them, or some of them, do have vouchers to pay their rent. They're still unable to find homes that are within their allowance. We now have four people at New Beginnings with vouchers that have no affordable apartments to move into. We need more affordable housing in Fayetteville. We are changing the entire landscape of our community.
 by not prioritizing affordable rent. I wish that we would actually start to prioritize the health and safety of our community by providing safe and affordable houses. I ask that you please vote for the New Beginnings proposal and tell our city that all people matter. Thank you. Thank you. Hi there, my name is Amber Bruce. I live at 109 North School.
 I've lived in Fayetteville for about 12 years now, and I have worked in the housing services sector for about six years. I started as an intern, and I never looked back, not because it's easy or extravagant, but because I had the opportunity to unlearn everything I thought I knew about homelessness.
 and learn from the people experiencing it, who are some of the most compassionate people I have ever met. I watched them share the last of something, and I guarantee you that with all my privilege, if I needed something, they would give it to me.
 And so that's all I needed to know. And I also, before I got involved in the sector, assumed that because a resource existed, that it was easy to access or easy to navigate. And six years and two college degrees later, I still struggled to navigate those systems myself. So I was really thrilled to hear about this proposal and that supportive services that would go along with that.
 Our population of people who need affordable housing is growing while the housing stock shrinks. I know off the top of my head at least four places that used to be relied on or considered affordable housing that no longer exist for varying reasons.
 And I'm not affiliated with New Beginnings in any way, but I'm very confident that they would be good stewards of this money and do the best that they could for our community and be sustainable.
 and I would also just like to say that it was very heartening to hear tonight as we looked at other agenda items to say this is kind of a high number and we might balk at it but it can be done because it needs to be done so I hope that attitude is shared for this particular item
 because I don't know how to put a value on human life. And I, for one, am sick and tired of hearing about neighbors and people that I've worked with for years that have lost their lives without the dignity and basic need of housing. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'm Richard Tiffany at 105 North Willow, and I just wanted to publicly thank Solomon for coming up with a plan to deal with the homelessness situation. That I hope that you all will support it and that this will be the beginning of what
 a new direction for the city instead of the plan to make life more difficult for the homeless. Thanks. Thank you. Good evening, everybody. My name is Craig Kritzer. I'm a prime example of what it is to help the homeless. I was out on the streets for 17 years living in the mountains, 17 years. Solomon came up with a plan, and then two years ago, the committee came together and they opened up 22 units for us.
 Not only do we have mental issues, there's other issues involved. Sometimes we don't know how to live, we forget how to live, right? I own three restaurants, one part of my lifetime. I had a life. I went through a psychological breakdown and I walked away from everything. Newbie Games gave me an idea again what it is to have clean clothing, clean living. We have peer counseling.
 You know, every week we make a plan. We do that plan. They follow through with that. His staff sticks by our side. They care about us. We are people. We're not just homeless. We're people. We got emotions. We got feelings. We have we have a way of life that a lot of people wouldn't understand if we weren't in our shoes. Now, here's the thing. So I'm the first one to move out on my own. I did. I did housing.
 Right, so I get, I have to take a place. They give me a place, I've used that place for 90 days because there's water and floods. Okay, I lost everything I own. That's okay, right? We got this again. New beginnings, open arms up, they brought me back in. Now again, we're ready to move on, but just no housing. A lot of us got a house, we have housing, but there's no housing. New beginnings, just trying to do a phase two. We can move out and we can bring other people in that were in the beginning like I was. New beginnings, right? Where do we go now?
 Even with the housing that we have, we can't find anything. So I'm totally supportive of what that crew does, what the staff does, what Solomon does. It's a solid foundation of teaching us how to live again. And we're stuck now. There's 22 of us ready to go. There's eight of us got vouchers and ready to go, ready to move on. We can't find a place. It needs to be adjusted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Yes, please. All right. Good evening, council members. My name is Basil Branham. I live on 2100 North Leverett Avenue, and I've lived in Fayetteville for about three years. So just quick off.
 The lack of access to affordable housing has been an issue forever. It's always been an issue. It's been such an issue that the UN had to write it out as a human right to make it one of their goals to achieve.
 They first put out a declaration in 1948 and then again in 1966, and they revisited it again in 1999, and probably have again recently, I just didn't find it. The UN defines adequate housing as safe, affordable, and accessible. New Beginnings is working to combat the lack of adequate housing some of our community members are experiencing by giving them services and by transitioning them into stable living environments.
 With a combination of support services and consistent housing, these community members would have a chance to access the opportunity a home provides. I'm also a member of the small group of LGBTQ youth in Fayetteville who, with just the reality of our state,
 are always on the edge of homelessness. So due to either lack of family support or the resulting mental illness that the, you know, ostracizing experiences that we've had in school and in our communities and in church
 have led us to kind of always be feeling like we're living on the edge. We don't have support systems and to know that at least there's somebody trying to make those support systems, like New Beginnings, makes everything feel a little bit more secure.
 that we don't have to try and find someone who's willing to let us stay with them for a bit or we don't have to live out or out of our cars even though we're working two jobs um so i just want you guys to consider this because i think it can start setting precedent for the way that fayetteville treats the vulnerable people in their community so i hope this committee this committee um
 will comply with the recommendations of the United Nations and consider the more vulnerable populations here in Fayetteville that just really need some help. Thank you guys. Thank you. Okay, okay, okay. Hi, I'm Allison Slankard. I live at 2358 North Blue Mesa. I've never darkened the door of this building and likely probably won't again, but there's a couple of things that'll get me here and this is one of them.
 So I've been a nurse for 21 years, all in Fayetteville. I currently work at Arkansas Children's and take care of some sick kiddos. But what I also do is coordinate the Laundry Love organization or the work that we do down there on 15th Street, the laundromat. First Friday of every month, you can all come and help dry some clothes and fold some clothes together.
 Through that, my kid is a sophomore at Fayetteville. He's done that. We've done that since he was in kindergarten. So I know JoJo and I know Trey and I know Craig. I knew them when Craig couldn't come in the laundromat. He wasn't allowed to. But now I work in the winter shelter, which we did at Genesis and then we did at Central United when the weather went out.
 Craig and JoJo helped me and the rest of us run it. They would never have done that 10 years ago. They would have been the people that I fed and found a bed. In the case of one night, they slept on the floor at Central United. Nobody complained. There's no one here that would
 not complain if they had to sleep on the floor in a gym. Every one of you, me included, would complain. None of them complained. They found a place on the floor and laid down. So in terms of healthcare, what I can speak to before I switch gears from being a PhD student to a nurse practitioner student, because I figured my mouth is better used in front of them instead of writing about them. So that's why I changed. My research emphasis was on how healthcare people treat those unhoused.
 It's horrible. They lack empathy, they're judged, their medications, their pain tolerance is not addressed. In one instance, I had a friend of mine, Steve and Sue, which you know, you've probably seen him around town, he had a net brace that was always on the
 He tried to get a job, he wasn't able to get a job because he didn't have a place of residence. So I went and picked him up from a hospital, won't name the one. They discharged him with dissecting vertebral artery, which is as bad as it sounds. He could follow up in a few weeks with the doctor, but he can't follow up because he doesn't have a way to get there. He lived at the Salvation Army at that time.
 It's really important, I think, that you reserve judgment when you see these people. And I think that in your head, you don't think you are, but I think people do. And there's a difference between sympathy and empathy. Empathy is that you feel with someone versus feeling for. And I think when you understand where these people come from, what kind of people they are, I would let any of these people
 in my home, I have. I'm not scared of any of them. They're perfectly wonderful people. I think in terms of housing, it's really important. I know Craig can speak to that. There are places they could go live probably right now, but it's where they came from. So what service are we doing them if we rehab them somewhat at New Beginnings, and then we send them to what they can afford, which is another crack house. That's dumb.
 So this is an affordable area that's structured, that they have a support system. These people, including me, I've done this for over 10 years. I'm heavily invested in their success. I think that's one of the really cool things about living in Fayetteville. There's a lot of them. But we're always way ahead of Bentville and Rogers and Springdale in terms of social justice issues. I'm very proud of that. A lot of those people just choose to ignore it. It doesn't mean it doesn't exist.
 So I appreciate the fact that I can come here. I'll probably never talk again. I can't even believe I'm up here. But to have a place where they can go that's settled and safe, they can sleep at night. They don't have to worry about their neighbors using next door, how that's gonna affect them. I mean, they're not that far out of non-using. So then to throw them in a place where it's surrounded, it's on either side, it's upstairs and downstairs, it's in the parking lot, that's not fair. It's not fair. So I appreciate you even
 listening to this, I think it's very worthy of your time and attention as they are. So thank you. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Hi, my name is Cassidy Wade. I live at 2566 East Bayside Crossing. When I was 10 years old, I started volunteering with Laundry Lab. I'm almost 18 now. I've grown up with these people. Never before have I met people more deserving of housing than the people who are currently not housed.
 I've met people who have turned their entire lives around just for the opportunity of a roof above their heads, yet they still don't have one. I've met people who started from nothing and who are now trying to make something of themselves. People who five years ago couldn't call a place home and are now staying at New Beginnings and calling that something close to a home, but still not a home. These people have made so much progress in their life with the few resources that are currently available.
 with this housing, they'll be able to move forward more. Currently, they're stuck. They're not able to move forward. The only way to get out of New Beginnings right now is to go right back to where they came from.
 To be able to move forward would be passing this and getting the money to get people in some housing that is sustainable and supportive so that they can actually move forward in their lives. So that all the work they've done over the years to better themselves, to get out of bad situations, is worth something so that they can make something of themselves. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Is there anybody else?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the mayor. I'm sorry mayor. There's a zoom. Oh, yes, indeed. I forgot about zoom Take it away soon. All right, Casey Klein hints. Okay, go ahead easy client hands three six four four West we are road I'm the director of the Community Development Corporation in Bentonville. We were a nonprofit affordable housing developer
 Earlier, a couple of council members had asked about sustainability for housing services programming. And I want to reinforce that there's no operational income from housing services. It's public funds, private philanthropy, great leaders like Solomon. That's the sustainability program for housing services. So nights like tonight are the sustainability program for housing services.
 You know, one other point, I saw the materials in the council packet showed some staff concern for how the resolution complies with the ARPA guidelines. You know, I use public funds. I'm familiar with kind of narrowly defined programs that are written somewhere else and don't really fit your area, but you have to follow the rules anyway.
 I, you know, this feels like a great chance to have the political will and the need lead the programming. And, you know, I have so much respect for City of Fayetteville staff. I know they wouldn't, you know, wouldn't lead anything the wrong way. And the program would stay in compliance. And just want to express my support for Solomon and the New Beginnings program. Thank you. Who else? No one else, Mayor.
 Okay. Keep forgetting Zoom tonight, don't you? Interesting discussions. Okay. What discussions would the council like to start off with?
 I just I'd like to thank all the individuals that took the time tonight. Some of you that said that you've graced city council for the first time. I know this can be an intimidating format and I just appreciate, you know, the ability to be able to listen, you know, with both ears open to hear of your experiences to kind of drive the decisions that we make going forward. So I just really want to express, you know, taking time away from your day can be hard. So thank you very much. Anybody got any, anything?
 Yes, yes. Yes, yes, Sonya. Yes, thanks again, everyone, for coming out. And I know it is a weird thing to step up to the microphone. I've been on that other side in, you know, your emotions kitchen. It's hard. So I do want to reiterate and commend you for coming out. It does make a difference hearing your voice. It does matter. Thank you.
 Every time each person came up, I'm writing your name down, what is it that is impactful to me? So it's absolutely imperative that we participate.
 that we have this forum that you come out and take the time. And I know you had to listen to a few things before. So that's part of the patience, part of the process. So I just want to recognize those who were able to. And for those that weren't able to and it was just too scary, it's okay. Maybe next time, right? I kind of want to get on the application side of things. And this might be more of a Solomon question.
 thing of under and I'm looking at the application and let's see here new new beginnings will verify and let's see eligibility deli see part 11 this is under data collection and record maintenance reporting and I really appreciate and hear that you said that you would be willing to
 give a report. I think it was kind of up to us and what the report looked like. And so I think that that will be a really key part, at least for the city and for us, so that we can all stay transparent about how this investment, you know, could look. Two things that I'm wanting to do, which I think that I feel is,
 we can figure out is how we're going to keep it affordable on the financial side. Because obviously the property values are going to continue to go up. And so how do we do that and kind of that reporting in the conversation? How are we going to do that?
 And, you know, and what if what if the board decides to sell it? So I've been involved in a lot of nonprofits. So I know kind of what happens on that side. So kind of thinking about, you know, what does that look like? And I don't know that this we necessarily need a contract, but if that report can help us.
 Because maybe in five years the board might say, you know, it's going to be way better if we sell this and invest in this other piece of property and build 14 units. Are we okay with that? Is that something we want? Well, I mean, that's better, definitely. So I kind of see it as that way, but I think if we can continue to keep the conversation and the communication open about how that's happening, that'll be really awesome.
 And I think it's important for the city council to ask themselves if they're okay with that too. Because if a couple years, three years from down the road, if we decided to hear that the property's up for sale because it's a better investment, is that something that we're okay with too? So these are things that I'm looking at and that I'm sure other constituents in the ward are asking
 are asking themselves in the city. So I just wanted to point that out and definitely develop that report. I think that's going to be a real key to work together. And Kit and I, we talked a little bit about the fact that we'd have to do a contract later on to lay out the terms. And so I think those are additional things to talk about in the wording to follow up as well. So I just, in the event, Kit, I didn't know if,
 Speaking to that, I mean, Solomon's not an attorney by any means, but the commitment that they have to, I'm not sure as we stipulate, you know, in a contractual agreement in regard to the property, what Sonia brought up about the selling of the property, because we're tying to these particular purchases, this 40-year agreement. So in the event they're going to make an additional investment by selling and purchasing new property, how that works in a contract.
 Well, I will look at their application and listen to what the City Council says tonight. And if you approve this, then I'm going to have to work on a contract to try to protect the interests of our citizens, as well as the interests of the homeless people that are going to be helped in this.
 And it will, you know, we can't as a city regulate rental. I heard someone say we should be like New York City and regulate rents. Well, the legislature says no, you will not. However, we have a contract here. And I think with a contract, that's not a regulation. That's a contractual agreement that the city can have.
 And so I would want to be working with the applicant to try to make sure that what was presented is something that hopefully will actually come to fruition and last a long time. And I think that's probably what you would want to do. There's lots of things to look at, you know, upkeep so that the rent.
 probably needs to be enough to at least maintain the property and pay taxes on it, probably, because there won't be city properties. So I think you might still have to pay taxes. I have to look at that. Maybe not. Maybe we can get some sort of charitable break on that. But so there needs to be some money coming in in order to maintain the property and have it not just deteriorate and then you don't have anything in 20 years.
 So there's lots of things to look at. It will be a real in-depth discussion I will have with the applicant. And then what I would do eventually, after I've gotten something I think I could recommend, is I would bring it back to the city council. And it would be for your decision, has this been worked out to your satisfaction?
 And of course, they'd have to look at their board and have their board approve it too. And so I see that would be somewhat of a lengthy process to some extent because this is a very unique situation. I've never drafted a contract like this, I can tell you that. Although I did look at some of the stuff for Willow Bend and Willow Bend was a different situation where
 We had invested in our own infrastructure and then we were able to use that to try to keep their sale prices down because they were actually selling houses, but selling them at a lower rate. And they were financing that. So this is a different situation. They're going to, my understanding, they're going to rent them.
 In some ways, that makes it a little bit more simple to be able just to deal with one person and not have to look at different classes of people. But yeah, there will be a lot of contracting on that, but I think we could probably accomplish something that you would be satisfied with, I hope. That would be my goal. And that's all dependent upon whether or not you want to go forward with this, but if you do, I will certainly be working on that.
 Okay, Teresa, I've got you, and then I've got DeAndre, and then I've got Holly, and then I've got Scott. Does that sound about right? Anyway, that's the way we're going to run it. All right. Thank you. Kit, you answered some of my questions, but outside of a contract, are there other obligations the city would have with respect to this property if we approve it tonight? Well, that's...
 I think that we would have a lot of power over this property as opposed to responsibilities. I mean, we would be, what we would be giving our part of the contract is $1.3 million, and that buys a lot, right? And so to get our $1.3 million, then what they have said they want to do, that is going to be their primary consideration.
 And so those are the two big things. And then we get together to see how can we actually accomplish this and make it where it's fair for them, but also fair for our citizens. But when it comes to further responsibilities that the city has, I think we have a responsibility to make sure we have a contract that's going to fulfill what they're doing and have enforceable items in the contract so what they have said they will do and perform to.
 that they will or else they, it would be almost to some extent like a mortgage if they don't do, if they don't satisfy the contract,
 then we probably are going to have some rights to claw back the houses or something like that. My goal is not to ever have to do that, but I will want to put stuff in the contract that would protect our taxpayers, even though this is federal money. And I should tell you, we can't do this with general fund money.
 This is not something that the state constitution would allow us to do with general fund money. This is special money, ARPA money only from the federal government where we have much different allowances of what we can do, much broader than what we're allowed to do under the Arkansas Constitution with taxpayer dollars. But for this money, I would do what I could to protect, I guess, the federal taxpayers and make sure that they're getting what they think they should be getting.
 Okay, thank you. I'm glad to hear that you would bring the contract back to the City Council. To all of the policymakers, I'm going to draft it the way best I can, but you're really the ones to make the decision. Did I do the job right? Did they pledge enough? Whatever. Just like you'll have to bring this back to his board and have his board decide whether or not that is a contract that they believe is satisfactory with them.
 Thank you. And Paul, they would have to have the ARPA reporting as well, I would think. So that'll be another oversight. Well, in addition to what you're talking about now, above and beyond the ARPA, there