I would like to call the City Council meeting of March the 2nd, 2021 to order. Chair, would you please call the roll? Pinnion? Yes. Oh, here? Sorry. It takes me a while to get wound up. Yes, you're here. Petty? Do you not hear me? Okay. Scroggins? Present. Fetch? Fetch. Turk? Here. Erdsberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here.
 Here. Jones. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you. Karen, would you join me in a pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, and with liberty and justice for all.
 Thank you all. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public. This meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. I am present with a limited number of essential support staff, city council members, city staff, and the public participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting.
 viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. To request to speak during the public comment period, you must raise your virtual hand to be recognized. If you are accessing the meeting through a smartphone, tablet, or computer, please click the raise hand option to request to speak during public comment period.
 If you're calling into the meeting by phone, please press star 9 to raise your virtual hand for public comment. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone. For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions into the search bar. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized.
 Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item. They may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time or an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This will be the report on January, which is the first period of 2021. Very happy to report the sales tax, as we discussed last week, was up. Sales tax for the city was up roughly 7%. It was up 8% for the amount of sales tax that the city receives from the county. So that was very strong.
 When we look at the other revenue categories, franchise fees, beverage taxes, park programs, court fees and fines, and licenses and permits, they were all down. However, we ended up the month 3%, over 3% above the budget estimates. So I'm very happy to see that we started off January, very strong.
 Street fund, our fees were up 9 percent. The fees we got for motor fuel tax, the fees that we get for sales tax for highways was up. The street fund was very strong for the month of January also. When we look at parking, the Dixon Street area and the parking fees were down. There were 80 percent of the budget.
 that's a little better than it has been so it is improving a bit one thing we did when we looked at the parking fund we've addressed expenditure we're holding a couple of open positions so i feel confident that the parking fund going forward
 from here is in a fairly sound position, especially when we see the transfer that we've gotten in last year. But right now, our revenues,
 are exceeding our expenditures, at least they were for the month of January. And that gives me confidence we're in good position going forward. We're starting to see a little bit more activity down in the Strixon Street area. Actually, as I said, our fees are in the 80% range.
 which is still down 20 percent and it's on the fine section that we're down. That's because people are not staying as long, etc. Hopefully, the fees will improve as we go forward. But right now, I think the parking fund is in good position. When I looked at HMR park development fees, although they were down 10 percent for January, that's much better than it has been,
 for most of the month of 2020. Reduce the budget this year. So we are not expecting the same collection rate that we did last year. However, I'm looking for it to pick up
 as we go forward. And as we remember, we cut back capital projects to make sure that our revenues would be in line with our expenditures. So even though they were down 10%, I thought that was an improvement over most of last year. Water and sewer essentially was flat compared to budget. Down about 1.8%, the billings were compared to prior year.
 We always talk about the past due amounts because as you will recall, we're not cutting off people for inability to pay their water and sewer bill at this point in time. We've got accounts receivable in a neighborhood of about $1.3 million at this point. Over half a million dollars of those are over four months in arrears.
 So we are going to have some issues going forward. However, that's only an increase of $50,000 from December. So that seems to be slowing down and sell something that's going to have to be addressed when we go back to normal cutoffs.
 and penalties. We're going to work with payment programs for people, but that is an area that we will work on as in fact we approach the point that the coronavirus is under control. Trash and recycling, billings were 87% of the budget. That's about in line with expenditure. Again, it's the same scenario was last year. Commercial has held back.
 and residential is up a bit. As far as the airport, airport fuel sales were 73 percent of budget. There are 30 percent less than last year, so we still have challenges in fuel sales at the airport. However, flights were significantly up for the period,
 were up almost 30 percent so the flights there were a lot of flights in january compared to last year during 2020 especially compared to the end of the year so flights are picking up
 We now are going to have to keep an eye on fuel sales. So if they pick up to the point where they start producing a surplus in airport fund. But all in all, I thought January was a strong month economically for the city of Fayetteville. I'm looking forward to hopefully continuing in the future. I think sale tax will level off. But we're at a very good start at this point in time. And I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do you have, Paul, on the Finance Report? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Let's go on to the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the February 2, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $9,680 representing donation revenue to the Animal Services Division.
 number three a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of eleven thousand three hundred and three dollars recognizing hazmat services revenue received from washington county and increasing the related expense budget number four a resolution to authorize the purchase of a caterpillar generator from riggs tractor company
 Any amount of $28,598 plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract be used by the police department. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of an auger-style side
 side load refuse truck from Arkansas Municipal Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $294,205.65 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract be used by the recycling and trash collection division. Number six.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of two RhinoFlex wing brush cutters from Williams Tractor Incorporated in a total amount of $41,624, plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges pursuant to the source well co-opted purchasing contracts. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Bobcat track loader from Williams.
 with a forestry cutter attachment from Williams Tractor Incorporated in the amount of $94,778.47 plus any footfall sales, taxes, and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract. Number eight.
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of a Towmaster semi-trailer from Williams Tractor in the amount of $80,428 plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract and approve budget adjustments.
 Number nine, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a John Deere loader from Serving Equipment LLC of Springdale, Arkansas, in the amount of $150,765 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opting purchasing contract.
 Number 10, a resolution authorized purchase of a caterpillar 308 excavator generator from rigs tractor company for the total amount of $96,564.99 plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source will cooperate purchasing contract and to approve budget adjustment.
 a resolution to authorize purchase of a playground safety surfacing from landscape structures incorporated for the installation at bryce davis sweet briar and david lashley parks in the amount of eighty seven thousand nine hundred ninety eight dollars and ninety cents pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract and to approve project contingency in the amount of eight thousand eight hundred dollars
 number 12 a resolution to approve change order number one contract with milestone construction company llc any amount of forty two thousand seven hundred twenty eight dollars and 19 cents for the repair and replacement of a sidewalk support structure and storage area adjacent
 to the town center plaza and number 13 a resolution to approve change order number four to the contract with benchmark construction of nwa incorporated in the amount of six thousand one hundred and seventeen dollars and seventeen cents for additional gravel needed for the construction of the fleet truck wash facility i'll entertain a motion except consent agenda as read second
 All right, we have a motion and a second to accept consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all.
 Under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to approve real estate purchase contracts with Farmers and Merchants Bank, Federal Depot, LLC, and Dixon and West Investments, LLC, to purchase about
 one half acre in the depot bank lot for $350,000 to approve a lease to own arrangement with Dixon and West Investments LLC for the 0.2 acre lot on the north end of the city plaza to agree to convey to Dixon and West Investments LLC the ownership of about 14,000 square feet of bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass the emergency clause.
 Council right now what we're waiting on is the latest that I have right now. I don't have a completely fully signed contract, but the farmer and merchants bank is taking the contract to their board for consideration next week, which would be on March the 9th and I should have something back to you by March the 16th. So what I would.
 I would like to ask you to do is to table this for two weeks until the farmer, until we hear back from the farmer and merchants bank on the contract. And then I will bring this back to you on March 16th. Move the table for two weeks. Second. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Carol, would you please call the roll? Ingram? Yes. Petty? Yes. Roggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all very much. I should have something finished up and ready to be back to this council by March 16th.
 Number two, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $154,900 for the remaining architectural services related to the replacement parking deck
 for the Cultural Arts Corridor project and to approve the budget adjustment. This is 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond project. I would respectfully ask that you table this for two weeks because this one ties in with the other one. So I would appreciate a table. Move the table for two weeks. Second. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Brogan? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number three.
 An ordinance to approve the annexation petition of Patricia Lynn Severino as trustee of the Robert Eugene Burge Irrevocable Trust and annex 59 acres of land located at 3435 East Zion Road. This was left on the second reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. All right we have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Um, Carabincher Police call the roll. Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to approve the annexation petition of Patricia Lynn Cervino as trustee of the Robert Eugene Burge Irrevocable Trust and annex 59 acres of land located at 3435 East Zion Road.
 Okay, now it's been a request by the council this last Tuesday to combine number three and number four in this annexation. So if I understand, Teresa, what you asked for was to have both these, the annexation and what they're going to put if the land is annexed
 in one presentation. If that's not correct, you can correct me. Thank you, Mayor. I was hoping that because the cost-benefit analysis and the drainage analysis are all very tied together with the annexation and also the development, if those if that could be presented at the same time, I don't care if we consider
 the annexation separate from the development, but I thought the information should be provided up front for everybody to hear since they are really, they're very interlinked together, if that makes sense. And what I'm saying, there'll be two separate issues, but you want a presentation sort of on both things together.
 when we do the first one. Is that correct? That is. Thank you. And then the applicant can have 10 minutes on this one and 10 minutes on the next one. Is that okay with everybody? Anybody opposed to that? I'm also under the understanding the applicant kind of wants these tied together. He doesn't want the annexation without the PZD.
 So that makes sense to tie them together because that's actually what the applicant wants. It's kind of a package deal. We can discuss them, or you all can discuss them together, but there will be separate votes, and the annexation must be voted on first, and then the rezoning would be voted on second.
 Right. And I can have the applicant tie both his presentations, I assume, on the first one if you would prefer that, but I think the applicant may want to weigh in on them separately. I don't know. Can the annexation be contingent on the PZD? No. No. Yeah, thank you, Kevin. Okay.
 Mayor, may I? Yeah. Since we're having this discussion, I just want to confirm that the public will have two opportunities to comment. One on the annexation and also one on the proposed PZD, correct? That's correct. Thank you. Well, shall we begin? All right. Jonathan and Chris, I believe you have your first out of the box. Yes, thank you, Mayor.
 Yes, thank you Mayor. Good evening Council. In crafting the presentation with Chris Brown, the City Engineer, it was clear to us that the best way we could share our comments if we were going to combine these presentations was if the Council would entertain it to suspend the rules now and afford us our additional 10 minutes before we begin. Otherwise, our concern is that we'll get 10 minutes in the presentation, need to stop, and then there'll be a motion to suspend the rules, add the time, and then continue.
 So if the council is interested in entertaining that, please do, if not, we'll go ahead and begin. Well, I had planned on you all having about 20 minutes here to do both presentations. I mean, in one, unless the council has some other opinion. I move to suspend the rules and allow the extra 10 minutes. Second. So we're gonna give them 20 minutes, right? Is everybody all right with that? Okay. We have a motion and a second to give the staff 20 minutes on the presentation, which will cover both of these.
 All right. Caravage Police, Caldwell. Yes. Petty. Yes. Broggan. Yes. Bench. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. OK, you all go ahead and get started. Thank you, Mayor. Hopefully my screen is visible to everybody.
 Just as a bit of a reminder and diving back in, this property is in northeast Fayetteville, as you see indicated here, the red box with the red arrow. That's about three quarters of a mile upstream from Lake Fayetteville along Hilton Creek.
 The property currently straddles the city limits with about 59 acres located in the county and proposed for annexation. Within the city, there is 23 acres of budding crossover that is proposed as a planned zoning district in conjunction with the area to be annexed. The PZD extends across the property from crossover in the southwest to Zion Road to the north and northeast.
 To orient you a little bit further from the PZD to what I showed you the map, what you see here in red is the area intended to be annexed, that 59 acres of the overall approximately 82 acres.
 The PCD includes three planning areas and I've put Hilton Creek on here so you can see how those relate to the planning areas in each slide. Planning area one as you see outlined here in the red boxes is intended to be non-residential with the potential for multifamily development. It includes about 6.2 acres, the preponderance of which is a long crossover with the opportunity to have some non-residential development towards the interior of the site.
 Planning area two, which is the majority of the property, totaling almost 40 acres, includes largely alley-loaded single two, three, and four family residential potential.
 And planning area three represents basically the open spaces, extremely low density portions of the development. You can see a thin shared open space being proposed down through the interior of the site along its eastern boundary. A small portion towards the center slash north portion for detention. And then the area along Hilton Creek and its riparian corridor intended to be set aside as well in that planning area.
 As far as procedure goes, development of the property follows five broad steps. I'll try to be brief on this, but please let me know if you want me to dive deeper into any of them later on. As you know from the agenda, what we're looking at tonight are the first two of those steps.
 First being an annexation. Before coming to the city, a property must receive an order of de-annexation from the county, which this project has. It's submitted to staff. We review the request in terms of our guiding policies on annexations outlined in City Plan 2030. We take a recommendation to the Planning Commission, which if forwarded comes on to the council where the item is today.
 At the same time, or sometimes one after another, properties being annexed usually come back for some sort of zoning entitlement.
 Most properties or developers don't want the annex just to be zoned agriculturally. So that's what the PZD is that you see today. Those are reviewed in terms of compatibility with existing land uses, consistency with our long-range plans, as well as consideration for infrastructure and the ability of a city to serve those properties. Similar to an annexation, these begin with staff and make a recommendation to commission, who in turn make a recommendation to council.
 From there, a project is submitted for development entitlement, which is typically where you see a lot higher degree of detail in a project. That's detailed site plans, detailed building elevations, and a lot of what you've heard discussed and several council members have expressed preference to see details on are usually seen at this stage in a project.
 This includes a lot of those detailed studies that you've heard mention of, traffic studies, flood studies, whether our city's water and sewer systems have the capacity to handle development, whether there are wetlands on the site, anything else that may be relevant to a particular project.
 Unlike annexations and zoning, these do not go to the City Council. They're submitted to staff. And then depending on their scale, they may go to the subdivision committee, which is a sub body of our planning commission. And then onto the planning commission itself. If it's a small enough project, our code indicates that these can be approved by staff in some instances.
 From here it gets into what we call the construction level of details. This includes grading permits, which if you want to think of it in a fairly simple way is everything below ground. So you're looking at streets, curbs, gutters, utilities, drainage. That's where those are reviewed. And of course as the name suggests, that's also when the topography of the site can sometimes change. When earth is moved and it's actually graded.
 sometimes subsequently to that are building permits. That's the flip side of a grading permit. That's everything above ground. Typically that's your structures. When you begin to go vertical on a project, these are reviewed in terms of our adopted ordinances as well as codes that are sometimes adopted at the state level like building codes. And these are like a grading permit reviewed at a staff level.
 One of the questions that has come up repeatedly on this item and other annexations in the past is, what's the real distinction between a property being developed in the county versus the city? This may be a little overly simplistic. Of course, there's more laws on both sides of it, but I think the ones that are most often come up and are the most concern are outlined here. If this property were to be developed in the county, there are some stormwater standards that Chris Brown, the city engineer, is going to touch on shortly.
 And additionally, the city has planning area jurisdictions over the property where it'll have to meet several of our subdivision standards in terms of block length and properties having access to streets.
 If it was annexed into the city, as you probably would expect, it's subject to a much higher degree of standards. In addition to those stormwater and subdivision standards, there are tree preservation requirements which we cannot apply in the county. We have landscaping standards like the planting of street trees and maintenance of green spaces. There's a water quality component to our drainage manual.
 additionally developments in the county or buildings in the county aren't subject to any sort of municipal building permitting process whereas if it's in the city of Fayetteville they do get a building permit reviewed for our standards and adopted codes for building and energy code and then lastly there's what may seem like a small detail but affects some people we do have a
 something of a dark sky ordinance in Fayetteville that's observed for most types of development, which would not apply in the county. And lastly, as you all know, and came up recently with this item was streamside protection standards, which thanks to y'all's speedy action related to this project, those do apply now if the property were to be annexed into the city.
 And with that, I'll hand this off to the city engineer, Chris Brown, to touch on a few environmental issues, drainage issues.
 All right, thank you Jonathan. My talk will basically focus on differences between city and county related to the annexation and also answer some of the questions that some of the council members have asked in previous meetings. So starting with stormwater, Washington County requirements are to keep peak flows at pre-development levels for the two-year storm event and above.
 This was our code prior to 2014, and this picture you see actually is the stormwater pond at Copper Creek that was designed using our old codes. It's a little difficult to see, but there's a channel that runs through the middle of the pond, so any water that comes into the pond immediately flows to the opposite side to the outfall structure. We don't get any kind of sedimentation or water.
 water quality features out of these types of ponds. They also drain down much quicker and in many cases don't hold any water. Next slide, Jonathan.
 This is a picture of a pond as compared to the previous one you saw. This rocky area is a forebay, a sedimentation basin that catches a lot of the initial sediment that comes into the pond. As the water fills up, it goes into that landscaped area that is a bioretention area that captures up to the first inch of water and doesn't allow it to leave the pond.
 The outfall structure you see there is kind of a stepped structure. So as the water continues to increase in height, additional water is let out. And again, that's to mimic the existing flows that are coming onto the site. So say we have four standards like we talked about a few weeks ago, water quality, downstream channel protection, and then the flood protection for up to the 100-year flood.
 There was a question about direction of flows on the land. This is a depiction of that. The area in black is the proposed annexation area. The blue shaded area is the watershed of Hilton Creek. The black arrows are the flow direction. The water typically flows to the either southwest or northwest, depending on which side of the creek you're on. It flows towards the creek.
 and towards the west as the creek is flowing. This is a depiction of the sewer in the area. So again the blue is the watershed, the black outline area is the annexation, the black and yellow dotted line is current city limits.
 And then you can see all the structures are kind of the brownish dots. The green lines represent sewer lines. So it's pretty easy to see that any of the areas inside the city limits are typically going to have sewer and areas outside the city limits do not.
 And that's basically because of this very, very simple requirement. Property within the city limits must connect to sanitary sewer when available, and property outside the city limits cannot connect to sewer without special permission from the city council.
 Lastly, this is a picture of hydric soils, which are basically soils that could potentially be wetlands. We use this mapping function to make decisions about whether there are additional studies needed around wetlands. So this is a standard procedure that we look at as developments occur.
 So again, the standard process, if we see that hydric soils are present, a wetlands determination, wetlands delineation is required. And that's before a grading permit, which is typically two steps beyond where we are now, as Jonathan mentioned earlier. But we do have a wetland delineation that's been provided to us by the proposed developer, and there have been identified a little under six acres of wetlands.
 So you'll hear later recommendation for a determination by the Corps of whether those wetlands are in their jurisdiction. The study itself says that they are not or says that they likely will not be considered jurisdictional wetlands, in which case there would be no federal requirements related to
 the protection of the wetlands or mitigation if the wetlands are removed. But again, as we talked before, the wetlands requirements are our federal requirement. The Corps of Engineers has that jurisdiction and would be the one that would be looking at permitting. We do not have city codes related to wetlands protection. With that, back to you, Jonathan.
 Thank you Chris, I appreciate it. That brings us to many of the land use considerations that staff took in reviewing the project. Many of these came out of City Plan 2040, the city's comprehensive plan for land use development. The first of these was the future land use map, which has unusual for a property has three different designations. These are city neighborhood area, residential neighborhood area, and natural area.
 These you can kind of imagine as a transect from our most dense to least dense or intense parts of the city.
 On this side, the city neighborhood area is up against crossover road where you'd expect non-residential developments and perhaps more dense residential developments occurring. This segues on the future land use map into our residential neighborhood area which is intended in our future land use map to represent this wide spectrum of residential uses which staff feels that the applicant's request mirrors with their proposal to allow a mixture of
 of one, two, three and four family dwellings in planning area two. And lastly, the portions of natural area largely follow Hilton Creek and its floodplain. Again, we feel that the PZD request reflects this or speaks to it with the proposal to minimize development entitlement in that area.
 As far as the property's infill score goes, it does vary fairly significantly, which is perhaps not surprising considering some of it's in the county. Its highest score is near Crossover Road, where it has immediate access to water, sewer, etc.
 close proximity to trails and parks. Transit additionally has a pretty rapid response from the Fayetteville Fire Department. And the future land use map does speak positively, again, for the piece next to Cross River Road in particular.
 Also, within city plan 2040, if the council will recall, is a new item called the growth concept map, which indicates a series of nodes throughout the city where the city anticipates the higher levels of development that can support rings of development around them that can be walkable, compact, complete neighborhoods.
 The intersection of Zion and Crossover just to the west of this site is one of those nodes, a middle tier one that would support this. Again, we feel that the PZD reflects this and speaks to it. Lastly, the Master Street Plan does indicate a major street passing through this site. It would basically be a continuation east from the intersection of Zion and Crossover, which travels east through the property and into the county where it could potentially link up, providing future connectivity there.
 Other issues that have come into play with the proposal includes questions about infrastructure, flooding, drainage, water quality, a request for a fiscal impact analysis, and some public comment that I'll touch on. First, infrastructure. If you had a chance to visit the site, you almost undoubtedly traveled on Zion Road or the one-lane bridge passing along or accessing the north portion of the property.
 Staff did have concern that that represents the weak point in this project's proposal as far as infrastructure goes. We are comfortable with the proposal given that the intent or since the original PZD was proposed, the applicant has withdrawn a significant amount of development proposed along Zion and effectively leaving that area undeveloped for now.
 We feel like that speaks very much to the fact that the roads there are not adequate to handle significant amounts of development. Similarly, staff did confer with the utility department and they were able to confirm that there is adequate capacity both of the major water transmission lines that run to the east of the site coming from Beaver Lake and the sanitary lines that are located at Crossover Road.
 As for flooding drainage and water considerations and concerns, staff does share many of these. As a result, we've recommended a flood study be a condition of approval of the PZD.
 uh if you all will recall i believe chris brown spoke to this when he presented to you all at a previous agenda session staff does put a lot of stock in our city's drainage criteria manual and we feel that ultimately development under that manual will either reduce or cause a neutral impact to the surrounding properties there is some evidence and indication from our engineers
 suggesting that the amount of phosphorus or other water quality issues from this property may actually be less considering its agricultural use today versus what it's being proposed to use for in the future. And that leads to a fiscal impact analysis that was requested from staff. I'll drive a little bit deeper into this without hopefully going too far.
 When properties are annexed into the city, it's often curious whether it's actually going to contribute positively or negatively to the city's treasury. That's what we looked at. One piece of a fiscal impact analysis that's important to consider are the assumptions. With this PZD, it was a little bit difficult compared to ones that have been done in the past. Whereas Planning Area 1, the residential piece has very clear allowances of dwelling numbers.
 or planning area two excuse me has cleared numbers of residential allowances planning area one is a mixed use allowance district which could mean any number of things could develop there so staff had to make several assumptions on what could be there and it ultimately settled on one that included a mixture of multi-family retail office and restaurant
 Diving into the numbers, we start out looking at one-time revenues. These are generally calculated by our unified development code based on the type of development and its scale.
 These were fairly solid numbers with the exception of parkland fee and lieu. Touching on that briefly, any residential development that comes to the city is either required to pay a fee and lieu for the impacts that development has on our city's park system to help improve the parks and ensure that they provide the adequate services that our residents have come to expect, or they're required to dedicate parkland.
 This number you may have noticed the report was the most widely varying and this is because the applicant has proposed to dedicate parkland which would represent a value of theirs that they are giving up, in which case the parks fee would be $0.
 Whereas if a fee in lieu was required, that could vary depending on the time. How many do you have about one minute to finish up? Oh, thank you all. Hurry up. A widely varying fee in lieu ranging from about half a million dollars to just over $1 million if the fee in lieu was required. It's ultimately a planning commission determination.
 Moving from there, annual revenues were calculated based on taxes, represented about $330,000, as opposed to annual costs, which were the maintenance or service requirements of the city at about $275,000. When these were taken in tandem, Planning Area 1 did have a very positive number, which in this type of analysis, anything over 1 is good, below 1 is bad.
 Planning Area 2 fell below that one number. So you could see that this is reflected in the city sale tax numbers. Non-residential development definitely pays the bills of the city over residential development. We were asked about some alternatives. I'll skip that for now, but if you'd like, I can go into those. There were a few. Thank you, Bear. Okay. What's the wishes of council? If you want to get the staff on time, you may. If you wish to move on, we will have the applicant give 10 minutes.
 Move to give staff five more minutes. Second. Five minutes? Okay, we have a motion and a second to give them five minutes. Caravage, please call the roll. Nguyen? Yes. Gideon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Hey, Jonathan, you have five minutes. I have 615. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Council. I'll get that pulled back up. Thank you. Thank you, Council. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council.
 I apologize for being a little bit long-winded. Again, just touching on that total cost benefit, as it was looked at, it's basically a number, a ratio of the benefits to the city versus the costs. The non-residential piece would carry the residential piece in this project with the planning area two where residential proposed falling just under that one threshold of one as a non-burdensome part of the project.
 Again, there were a few alternatives staff considered. We weren't able to get all the way into them as the chosen alternative just for lack of time. One was basically replicating development further south in a similar condition, almost on the same amount of acreage. This included the area just southeast of Mission and Crossover, the Crossroads Village development. It has an estimated tax revenue of just over half a million dollars.
 Some other hypothetical scenarios, not necessarily based on locations in town, included a piece without multifamily, included additional office space, which had about $367,000 in revenue, and a piece with a smaller number of multifamily, but also a reduced amount of office, which also had a revenue of $336,000.
 When you compare these to the scenario staff chosen, which you see at the top here, 335, they all show favorably. Again, we weren't able to get into the details of what the actual benefits cost ratio would be. But generally, most of our city services are based on a per capita ratio, like the police service, the parks maintenance. So it is a...
 Probably fairly safe to say that anything that includes more non-residential development has a more positive impact on the city's coffers.
 Some other impact or considerations I wanted to share with the Council, if you've not had a chance to look at these before. There are some strengths and limitations to these. The strengths are that it is a very simple output. If you're over one, you're great. If you're under one, you're not. It's also fairly easy to put these together. I say that if this was your only job, it would be easy to put together.
 I realized that we weren't able to come forward with four or five fully vetted ones, but it could be feasible if enough time was allowed. Some of the limitations that are worth considering is that tangible costs are very difficult to come up with. These are those typically applied to environmental impacts.
 Additionally, there are always more variables that can be considered. In this instance, the city could get additional fees from permitting, but without knowing what the buildings will look like, we don't know what those numbers are. And of course, there's always the strength or weakness of assumptions. You have to make assumptions when you make these kinds of analyses, and there are inherent challenges in that.
 So all that said, there has been the last issue to identify was there has been quite a bit of public comments on this item. I won't go into all of this. I know you all have had a lot of opportunity to hear that. I don't want to shortchange it. And if the commission or council wants to hear of any of it, I'm happy to talk more. But I suspect you'll have an opportunity to hear that this evening.
 Summarizing the actions up to the council, staff and the Planning Commission did recommend approval of the annexation by a vote of 7 to 1. The item was heard several times by the Planning Commission before this proposal ultimately came forward. Staff was not in favor of the previous approvals, particularly with concerns for the infrastructure issues on Zion.
 Similarly, both staff and the Commission recommend approval of the PZD. The Planning Commission forwarded it on a vote of 7 to 1. There are a number of conditions that were recommended with the PZD. Some of those are fairly typical, such as updating the PZD booklet to reflect some of the requirements of the UDC. One minute, Jonathan. Thank you, which is a standard.
 There, the flood study I mentioned above, just making sure there's consistency throughout the PZD as there are with city codes. The Planning Commission did add a urban design requirement that the lots not be, that garage doors not exceed a certain proportion of the lot width. And as Mr. Brown noted, we do have a potential additional recommendation of approval that we hope reflects some of the concerns expressed today.
 by the council and indicated by the preliminary wetlands report, which is a condition of approval could be included that a Corps of Engineers jurisdictional determination be required at the time of development submittal.
 With that said, I appreciate the additional time. I apologize for exceeding my 20 minutes and I'm happy to take any questions from the Council. Thank you. Okay. Okay, we have the applicant here and I'm sure they're going to get a presentation. So would the applicant like to speak before the Council and then we'll take questions from both staff and the applicant. Okay. All right then. What questions do we have? I apologize, I was on mute.
 Is that working? Thank you. All right, hello City Council and city staff. As always, we'll try and keep this brief. I'm Alex Swindlin with Flintlock Limited. Project engineer Blake Murray is also available to answer any technical questions that might arise and the owner's attorney Robert Rhodes is also available. The project boundaries for annexation are shown on the 2040 future land use map. The area is well within the planned growth area of Fayetteville as adopted by the City Council last year.
 We're pleased to be able to come back after our previous tabling with a recommendation of approval from the Environmental Action Committee. They made no additional recommendations for conditions of approval above and beyond the city's standard development codes.
 The EAC noted support for development in the city versus the county, not only for many of the protective codes we've previously mentioned, but also because development within city boundaries would require compliance with energy codes that are not enforced within the county. This ensures that not only are homes built following international building safety codes, which are not enforced in the county, but they're also required to be constructed to higher energy efficiency standards.
 We continue to propose with the support of the Planning Commission, the planning staff, and now the Environmental Action Committee, the development of this property within the City of Fayetteville is the best path forward for responsible development of this property. We often hear citizen conversations about development review framed as a choice between development that we're proposing now or permanent preservation of a property. As you all well know, that isn't a real question before us this evening. Instead, this decision is about how and with what oversight and controls this property is developed.
 We think that this area can be most responsibly developed within the city's boundaries so that significantly more stringent development and stormwater codes may be enforced than if it remains in the county.
 We're also pleased to have been able to support a very quickly done preliminary wetland study to city engineering departments for their review. The report finds that while there are identified wetland areas or hydric soils, they do not meet the definition of jurisdictional wetlands as defined and controlled by the EPA's Clean Water Act.
 A botanical report is completed as part of that study as well, which showed extremely low plant diversity, almost entirely low ecological value introduced to invasive species like Bermuda grass and tall fescue.
 There were no signs of aquatic or wetland fauna noted, except in Hilton Creek itself, which also reflects what we've seen on site with the degraded current site condition. So although there are hydric soils on the site, which we see throughout Fayetteville's development area, they are not serving a strong ecological function with diverse plant or animal communities. And they're also not likely jurisdictional wetlands. Hilton Creek itself is now fully protected by the Streamside Ordinance as well by EPA standards.
 It's unusual that our wetland study would be provided so early in the process, so we're really grateful that FTN Engineers was able to get that quickly. As Chris noted, the report will need to be confirmed by the Corps of Engineers as is standard in the process. It will also be reviewed in full by the city staff as normal during the development review, as will the additional flood study that is typically required and reviewed during that process.
 I understand that a number of comments that the council has received in the past week have been in support of development of the property, but only if the development is done in a low-density format. Voting to leave the property in the county or to disprove the PZD would boast the actions in support of low-density development. We disagree with this approach for several reasons. First, in multiple reports, the EPA has advocated for higher-density developments because they minimize overall land disturbance and impervious area associated with development. These
 These studies have found that large treated lawns of low density development are often compacted enough to provide little effective infiltration. Combined with the chemicals frequently used to treat such areas, they present a negative overall impact on waterways. Larger homes and driveways are also common in low density developments, which further increases the overall impervious area per home.
 Second, we don't think that our continued low density developments are a responsible reaction to our area's unprecedented growth rate. You'll hear me advocate for small units on small lots on many projects, because I believe that we're a region with a supply and demand challenge in our housing. We've all seen those effects. Housing costs have increased 75% in the last 10 years.
 New demand is dramatically outpacing new supply. Not only are we one of the fastest growing regions in the country, we also have an incredibly small average household size. It's just over two people on average. I believe that several city council members live alone or with only one other person, as is typical in our demographics.
 That's the most common household type in our city, despite the dominance of three and four bedroom houses on fairly large lots as a housing type. Our small household size means that to house the same number of new residents as other regions, we need twice as many individual homes in areas with larger household sizes.
 With a projected population increase of almost 200,000 new residents in Washington County alone in the next 20 years, with our current household size, we'll need to build around 100,000 new homes. We have a choice about how much land area we disturb to build that housing. And if we only accept low-density developments in line with feedback you're receiving, we will disturb significantly more overall land area than if developed in the pattern that we propose. Okay.
 because sprawl is a development pattern, not just a location relative to downtown. Annexation and approval of the PZD allow this property to be developed at a responsible density of six units per acre over a smaller total disturbed footprint. This is also the minimum density generally accepted to support transit.
 The existing adjacent transit route connects potential future residents to a wide range of goods and services within walkable or bikeable distance. This is an unusual proximity to good services and transportation for an outer ring development. And we believe the proposed traditional neighborhood pattern reflects these adjacent land uses responsibly.
 The proposed PZD preserves 25% of the property with an open space or conservation zoning. It provides an important plan link from the most recent Master Street plan. It also provides for the ecological restoration of a badly degraded waterway. As you all saw firsthand on your tour, the existing site is undeveloped but by no means pristine.
 The stream bank has been channelized for more than a century. Much of the cover on the site is weedy Bermuda grass, tall fescue, and broom sedge, with little native biodiversity in evidence, as we noted in the study. Prairie mounds are visible, as they were across most of Fayetteville pre-development, but on this site, they've been disturbed by the plowing and mowing and the active farm for over 100 years.
 The development proposal before you does protect the best parts of the soil around Hilton Creek and provide for additional preserved open space and water filtration of the Copper Creek runoff before it enters Hilton Creek. The stormwater from this development will be treated in its own palms in addition to the park area. The proposed park area dedication has been strongly supported by the neighbors and advocates for the water quality of Lake Fayetteville. The Planning Commission, Engineering Department, and Environmental Action Committee have all expressed support of the proposed dedication as well.
 We've discussed water quality and storm flow extensively around this project. I believe one of the best reasons to support this annexation and rezoning application are that this land is likely to be developed in the immediate future, either within the city or within the county. If annexed and developed within the city, our development codes will provide significant protection to the water quality of Lake Fayetteville.
 In addition to increased stormwater protection, the ability of development to be placed on city sewer rather than septic systems provides protection for Lake Fayetteville's waters against increased E. coli pollution.
 There are existing flooding and water quality issues in this watershed that won't be solved by leaving this property un-annexed or undeveloped. Development under the current PZD proposal allows for improvement of water quality and stormwater flooding, including treatment of uphill water currently being dumped into the county by an eroding channel by Copper Creek subdivision via city infrastructure. By annexing this land and accepting the proposed PZD, you ensure that the land is developed to follow the best practices in all of Fayetteville's development codes.
 We hope you'll agree that we've taken this project firmly into the kind of traditional conservation development pattern that the city needs to meet our rapidly growing population. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the city council for the staff or the applicant?
 Mayor, I don't know if Peter is on the line or if Leif is. If they are, I would really like them to read what the EAC's recommendation was. I think the applicant mischaracterized their statement, and it would be helpful to have that read if they are available. Okay, go ahead. Peter, are you on? Yes, sir, Mayor. Can you hear me? Yes. So this is from the January 25th.
 Environmental Action Committee. I'll read it to you. Fayetteville Environmental Action Committee discussed the Chandler Crossing annexation and PZD at our meeting on January 25th, 2021. While neither supporting nor advocating against the proposed development itself, the Environmental Action Committee recognizes the positive environmental benefits that the city's development regulations will provide over the development in the county. Therefore, we support the annexation of this property into the City of Fayetteville
 Further, we recommend that the development should prioritize stormwater management and quality in a way that provides maximum protection of and benefits to the downstream water quality of Lake Fayetteville. Additionally, we support the permanent creation of open space in this development to provide ecosystem services, whether through the dedication of city park land or through private open space dedications.
 And finally, the Environmental Action Committee recommends that the developer provide floodplain and wetland delineation during the preliminary plat process. Thank you for your consideration. And that was the recommendation from the EAC.
 Okay. I have a question, Peter. So how did, you know, and maybe Teresa, I think you're on EAC also. How was this presented at EAC? Because we've been told it was approved and then it wasn't really, it wasn't disproved. It was, so how was it presented and what were they asked to vote on? Does that make sense? You know, what were they asked to vote on as far as this subdivision?
 or this development? Yeah there was a presentation by the developer and by planning staff and then a fairly extensive discussion by the environmental action committee members on the proposed development and essentially the environmental action committee members worked together to craft
 the language or give, I guess, give myself and Leif sort of a draft of the language at the meeting. And then we worked via email to sort of tailor the language to their specifications and get the final verbiage that was sent out to you all and that I just read. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 So if I could follow up just a second, there was a bit of confusion about whether they should make a recommendation or not, whether they were allowed to make a recommendation or not. And Peter, how would you characterize their decision? Is it neutral? Because that is what I got out of the conversation. I wasn't there toward the latter part, but I watched the discussion on video later. Yeah, I would say yes.
 you know developments like this coming to the EAC are not um not normal um there's not a standard process or protocol for these types of discussions at the environmental action committee uh so it was a little bit um
 It was a little bit difficult in our environmental action committee members are not well versed and I guess the city's development process, either so it's a lot of information coming at them I think when they when they do get a development project like this. So it was an attempt to try to help them understand sort of, you know, the global scale project.
 in terms of our development and where this project sits, and then this particular development's impact on that. And I would say, if I could try to characterize it, I think they were,
 and I think the recommendation reads this rather agnostic on the development itself, but did recognize the benefit that having the property annexed into the city, they did recognize the benefit that the city's additional environmental protections would provide for the property. And that was part of their recommendation. Other questions we have from the council? Okay. Okay.
 Well, I guess we'll take a little public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on the topic new no rude behavior Please give us your name and address. We normally let the residents of the city of federal speak first But since this is very close the county is very close. We're going to just let the residents of federal and the county residents all speak so, um
 But please give us your name and address. But y'all will be allowed to speak at the same time as federal residents are. Number eight, please press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address first from the public? Sandy Formica. Okay, go ahead. Sorry, you guys, I accidentally raised my hand. I've never done this before, so I don't have any comments. Okay.
 Joseph Robertson. Okay, go ahead. This is Joseph Robertson at 3397 East Iron Road.
 I appreciate you guys listening to the public this evening. We have made extensive comments and provided lots of documentation, and I hope that you took the time to read through that. We have a lot of concerns. We're not completely against the annexation or the development. We're just worried about how it negatively affects us.
 And one of those with the annex is that it encircles 12 homes and excludes the bridge that's been bad repair and part of Zion Road. So it leaves off the responsibility of maintaining those things that would clearly be encircled by the city.
 and so those are some of the main concerns that we have with the annex and so I would ask that you would deny this particular annex so that they would go back and rework it and make it to include everything that should be in the city or cut off the northern part if they don't want to include the the road and the bridge that's all I have for the annex thank you for your time thank you
 Who else would like to address us? Michelle Lang. Yes, my name is Michelle Lang. I live at 3322 East Zion Road. Mr. Mayor, I have two short videos of flooding on Zion Road, which a few people have already seen, but a lot of people have not. I would request permission for these to be shown during my time period so that they are on public record.
 I think that will take council action to do that. I understand that, sir. Mayor, I would move to allow Ms. Lang to show her two videos during her five minutes allowed public speaking. I second that. We'll start the time again if this passes. So we have a motion and a second to allow the videos to be shown. Karen, would you please call the roll? And you? Yes. Betty? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, we'll start the time clock again.
 Mayor, we have loaded those videos here locally on our network. So when you're ready, Keith will start the video and Michelle will. I have seen them. I'm sure a lot of folks have, but some folks may not have. So we are ready to go with them. Be ready. Keith, if you're ready to go, then Michelle, you can go ahead and begin talking. OK, thank you.
 Keith will be sharing a screen at some point. Let's let him get started. Yeah. Our time will start. Right. They're not on the screen. Michelle, do you want to go ahead? Yes. Thank you. This video begins by showing property on the north side of Zion Road. It pans towards the west.
 towards the one-lane bridge over Hilton Creek. And then it ends by showing homes on the south side of Zion Road, which back up to Hilton Creek. As you can tell in this video, the water had already receded approximately six to eight inches when the video was made.
 In this video the vehicle is traveling on Zion Road east from Crossover and it comes up to the one-lane bridge on Zion which is over Hilton Creek. There's the bridge underwater. I want to point out that at this point the creek and all the property you see is inside the city limits.
 Unfortunately, these two videos have been an annual occurrence since we've lived in Fayetteville the last four years. We've had a flood very similar to this at least once per year. Thank you for allowing these to be shown. The council has been provided with numerous letters and science-based reports over the last couple of months.
 explaining the importance of making wise decisions regarding the proposed development and the probable consequences of ignoring these in your decision making. So I please, I ask you please make your decision based on facts and science. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Kerry and Tony Griggs. Go ahead.
 Hi, this is Kerry Griggs, Tony Griggs. We live at 3349 East Zion Road. We would just like to say that after viewing these videos, we've lived here for over 20 years. And for that span of time, there's a flood similar once a year for the whole 20 year plus.
 So it's not something that's going away. It's something that's getting worse. And it got much worse when that pond at Copper Creek was put in. So we're very concerned about what is going to be done about that pond and how are we going to keep the water that's coming out of it in the banks of Hilton Creek.
 I understand that we're all worried about the water quality at Lake Fayetteville, but I'm concerned about having to rebuild my home a third time. We can't keep doing this. This water has got to be kept within the banks of the creek, and we need help with this development, whatever it is. We need to make sure that that is addressed because this should not continue like this.
 we should not have to deal with these floods every year and have the city approved projects that add to it. It should be addressed finally. And I appreciate your time. Thank you for listening. So I'm sorry, but just so you would not be in favor of the annexation. I'm just trying to get a little clarity here. Yeah.
 I know that property is going to be developed. I just want to have someone give me some assurance that it's not going to add to the damage to our property like the creek at the pond put in at Copper Creek.
 We've got to address the flooding before we do any other projects that add to it or could potentially add to it. And I think with those videos you see the severity of it and you see why these neighbors are so concerned about, you know, it's not just what we're going to, it's what we're having to deal with today over and over again. Thank you very much. I think that answered my question very well. Who else wants to address this? Kelly Stewart.
 Go ahead. Yes, this is Kelly Stewart 3306 East Zion Road. Currently a resident of the city of Fayetteville so we are not in the county. And I just wanted to express my concern that second video really hits home because that is our property.
 We have lived here since 2009 and as Carrie mentioned and Michelle, it has gotten increasingly worse every year. There's no hundred year flood. There's no five year flood. It's City of Fables already what we see behind
 The eight ball. I mean, we're already trying to catch up the stormwater management where we need to be today all over the city. You have to admit that we're millions of dollars behind and behind in time as well. We don't have faith that this development is going to.
 keep us where we are, which is not where we need to be to begin with. When we're looking at Copper Creek and Stonewood, and that was not properly, it wasn't developed properly, and the bulk of our flooding comes directly from them. So for us to trust that the new development is going to do anything but make things worse, when to begin with, we've got to fix everything.
 and we're going to have to start looking at the stone wind and copper creek issues before we even start going further. Like I said, we're in the city of Fayetteville, several of our neighbors are in the city of Fayetteville, we've got a mix
 literally having to redo the interior of our home. We have to come up with, you know, how we're managing the water. Like, oh no, it's springtime, here it is March. You know, let's get our game plan together. And that's unacceptable. This property for many, many, many years did not have flooding until Stonewood Copper Creek. And that's it. I am not in favor of...
 uh development um i realize that you guys have a strong case to bring into the sea of fable so that it can be managed but when like i said other places in the city are already behind on water management and then copper creek and stonewood weren't done properly um it's just it's it's too risky um you know ideally i'd like to see it stay farmland and maybe some folks come in and start a
 growing crops. I mean, let's look at some other opportunities as we're overpopulating the area. You know, we need to look at not only housing all these people, but, you know, look at some other opportunities for land use. So that's it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Nicholas Anthony. Go ahead.
 Well thank you very much. My name is Nick Anthony. I live at 3301 East Zion Road and I'm in the county. I'm going to start by saying that I'm really proud of my neighborhood. I'm proud of the friendships and the diversity of talents the residents in this area offer. In fact, if you've been listening to us and reading the letter sent over the past few months, you should clearly see that we're passionate about preserving the Birch Farm and the surrounding areas.
 We take pride in our homes and property and I don't think anyone should have an issue with that. We love and respect the environment that this area of Fayetteville supports and I don't think anyone on this committee has a right to question our sincerity. You haven't had the opportunity to hear from concerned citizens, professionals, and scientists caution you not to disrupt the farm. We have given extensive documentation of the roles that this land plays regarding the health of Lake Fayetteville.
 Over the course of this year, during the COVID and everything, I've repeatedly heard, follow the science, follow the science. Oh, we have to follow the science. Well, city council members, the people impacted by this decision have given you the science. And we have shown you the extra flooding caused by Fayetteville Copper Creek Stonewood developments. We have geology experts discussing flooding that will likely come from this project.
 If you review meetings with the Parks and Recreation Committee, you'll see that they generally rejected the architect's plan and suggested that the plan to use plants to capture phosphorus was generally inadequate. I challenged the myth that low density housing was worse than high density because of lawn fertilizer services. There's no phosphorus fertilizers applied by lawn services in this area as they are compliant with the Illinois River watershed regulations.
 You were provided with a summary of taxpayer-funded review of the Fayetteville Clear Creek watershed. We've had an extensive discussion of the impact of creek bank erosion on phosphorus deposition and all but certain blue-green algae challenge of Lake Fayetteville. I presented economic data for similar algal blooms in lakes across the United States. I provided a video of what 15,000 dead fish look like on the banks of St. Mary's Lake.
 Please note that this fish kill was after 10 years of Allen treatment and dredging, both done in an attempt to manage the blue-green algae blooms. This treatment alone cost this town of St. Mary's in Salina $5 million per year. I presented new literature documenting the generation of methane gas from photosynthesis process of the blue-green algae. So I have to ask, what science does a developer or architect provide
 that has convinced you that this development will be safe for the local residents in the Fayetteville-Clear Creek watershed. What science has been presented that overrides everything that you have been presented to you today? I certainly hope that you're working off of more than just gut feeling. Your committee will decide what happens to this land, and you can ignore the science and support this project or reject the urban sprawl that this project represents. It's your call, good or bad, you own the consequences.
 I do have a couple questions before I close for the City Council. The current flooding problems are clearly coming from the Copper Creek and Stonewood developments. You all know it's there, and you write it off as something that was done 15 years ago and doesn't count. You act like the Chandler Crossing development is different because we know what we're doing now. My question is simple. Why don't you just commit to fixing the detention ponds at Copper Creek and Stonewood developments before committing to this new development? And my second question is...
 really comes down to something I haven't heard through this whole discussion over the months, and that is what are the proposed price points for the houses that are going to be built in Chandler Crossing? You know, we have this discussion that this is going to be, you know, housing and affordable housing for people that, you know,
 That's fine. But I want to hear what a price point is for these houses because I really question whether these houses will be affordable to the average person. So with that, I'll leave it to you and I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mike Whitaker. We'll hand it.
 This is Mike Whitaker, 365 North Olive Avenue, Fayetteville. And I'm going to speak very briefly as the current chair of the city's Environmental Action Committee. And Peter did an excellent job of summarizing that when our committee started,
 was reviewing the project, the committee did come down completely neutral on the development itself. The committee was clearly in favor and supportive of the annexation because of the additional oversight that it would afford the city of Fayetteville for reviewing any development that took place.
 And so I just wanted to affirm his summary of our committee being completely neutral in either for or against the development. The only other concerns that we shared was the Parks Department staff concern about the acceptance of open space that was too near an existing park versus being able to have the payment in lieu of open space to locate a park where it would be more effective.
 So again, I just wanted to affirm that our committee was neither in support of or opposition to any development, just recommending in favor of the annexation. Thank you. Okay, so I want to be sure I'm clear on this. So Mike, you're saying that the committee was neutral as far as the development, but you were okay with the annexation?
 Correct. Okay. That helps me. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Colleen Gaston. All right. Colleen, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and members of the City Council. As I've said, my name is Colleen Gaston. My address is 3270 North Rom Orchard Road, Fayetteville, 72703, although I am just outside the city limits.
 As I've said before, I really am uncertain about my position on the annexation, but I'm continuing to go with basically a gut feeling, which I could understand if the council disagrees with it, that annexation is not appropriate. I have no question about my...
 opinion that the proposed PZ is inappropriate and not a good thing for the city but on the annexation there are a few things I'm just going to try to address some things that were brought up tonight
 I think there are some things that the city should consider for the annexation. The first is that this whole issue of would this be a benefit to the city? And Mr. Kurth discussed his February 12, 2021 memo, which concludes that the annual revenue compared to annual costs shows a surplus there.
 He noted, however, that this is based on primarily on the benefit calculated for planning area one, which is an area of and I want to emphasize this is only 6.2 acres that's contiguous with crossover road. So it's the part of the development that's in the county, but that's what makes this.
 annexation arguably under the memo a benefit to the county and so if you look though at the assumptions that went into the calculations for planning area one again six point two acres they are that there will be up to 400 multifamily residential units 880 residents 5,000 square feet of restaurant space
 7,000 square feet of retail space, and 150 full-time employees. This does not come from anything that's in the applicant's request because they did not provide that level of detail. There is no detail given about the commercial space. So these are the assumptions of the planning staff.
 but I assume that is what could be allowed. So I would like the city council to think about this type of density on those 6.2 acres. And again, we all know that we need a
 variety of choices for housing in the city and we certainly need multi-family homes and I have no opposition to that and it's not because this is in my backyard It's not in my backyard, but it's because of the sensitive location of this property proposed for annexation in in relation to the botanical gardens in the in Lake Fayetteville, but but but I would say that if you take out
 The assumptions, uh,
 for this 6.2 acres in plan area one, it quickly becomes apparent that this, the entirety of the property is not gonna be an annual benefit or to the city in terms versus the cost. And the other thing about those calculations is they assume, I believe immediate full built out, of course, that's not what's gonna happen.
 Mr. Kurth, look for some comparable developments that you could see about whether there was a benefit to the city. One that he did not mention that I think the city should think about is the proposed Mission Heights, or not the proposed, it's been in existence for I'm guessing 10 or more years, the Mission Heights development
 off of Mission Boulevard across from Westwood Gardens just before, just west of the intersection with Crossover. That was a PCD that was supposed to have commercial development at the front of the development. There now is housing on that hillside, but to my knowledge, there's not a single commercial development or restaurant space or shop space, retail.
 on that site. And I think that's one of the difficulties with these types of PZDs is they may get sold with the idea of yes, it's gonna be mixed use, but in reality, and I've heard this in other city council discussions, that's not what . Right, who else would like to address this? I don't see anybody else having their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Well, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 All right. What discussion do we have with the council? We are on third and final reading. And then whatever discussion we may have on this one, let's open up the floor and get going. I've got some questions for staff. Where is the flooding that we saw in these videos? Is it upstream or downstream from the proposed development?
 The videos that were shared, sorry, this is Jonathan Curtis with Development Services. The videos that were shown were immediately downstream from this property, which does include what comes from the Copper Creek stormwater ponds, but does not include what comes from the Stonewood subdivision ponds. Okay. Yeah, I've got a list of questions. Does the Botanical Garden flood occur?
 I have heard from their director, yes, but I don't have any data on that. I don't know, Mr. Brown, do you have any records? I know our engineering division and our floodplain administrator does keep some records on these when he's requested to visit the sites. Yeah, I don't have any specifics on that particular location. Sorry. Okay.
 Okay, I guess I have a question for Kit. If we turn down an annexation or a PZD solely based on flooding that's coming already, is there any liability to us if we don't have any? Is that arbitrary and capricious? If you would turn down the annexation because of flooding,
 Certainly that would be no problem for the city from a litigation point of view. As I have explained before, you have very, very wide discretion when it comes to annexation. Basically the question you ask and answer is, is it in the best interest of Fayetteville to have this land inside Fayetteville or do you want to keep it outside? So really you have great discretion when it comes to the annexation.
 If you do approve the annexation and you look at zoning, then you still have a lot of discretion in zoning. And I think you could look at flooding that is occurring, that seems to be occurring on that property. And I think some of that's near the creek. I think a lot of that was up for going to remain residential agriculture or something, but you can look at all kinds of issues involving property,
 whether the land is proper for this kind of density that is being requested by the applicants, whether this also is something you believe is the best interest of Fayetteville, does it fit with our long-range plan, is it going to be compatible to the neighborhood? There's many different things you can look at in a zoning. And generally, your decision in zoning is going to be upheld too. We have yet to lose a zoning case in the 20 years I've been city attorney,
 Because as long as you have a reasonable grounds for making your zoning decision whether it's yes or no Then the court will uphold that the decision had to be arbitrary and capricious and unreasonable For the courts to reverse the zoning decision by the city council. Okay Yeah, I absolutely agree that this should be in the city There's there's clearly issues. I think our standards are
 would better suit that than what's happening in the county. I think we need to have some longer conversations about the detention ponds that are already in place upstream that have nothing to do with this current development that we're looking at. Even when we're having massive flooding, there's basically no water in the detention ponds by Copper Creek. So they're not really
 doing what they're supposed to already. So we've got to solve those. I believe in nodes. I don't think that you just want to build a city up and out with sprawl. And this is definitely one of our nodes. So I think this location makes sense. We're on crossover. There's a lot of people would be interested in driving both to Springdale and Fayetteville from here instead of just having the traffic kind of go one direction.
 i think some people think we're voting between no development and this development something's going to get built here and then hopefully we use our design standards and and we actually give this pcd a good look we didn't approve rezoning on crossover recently to save a pond and that pond is gone
 and so we said okay neighbors we we're going to agree with you uh we're going to not do this up zone and and now we have way less detention uh at that site than if we had proved it and actually had maybe redone a detention pond there so um we're unfortunately not looking at the difference between this being a farm or this being 400 units it's 400 units or
 something else that can go here. So I also know that the applicant is interested in these coming together. So if we're gonna vote for the annexation, I hope that we also vote for the PZD. So that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this from the council? One of the discussions, sorry. Mayor, I'll make a comment. Okay. I've listened very carefully to all of the presentations and
 I feel more or less the same way that Councilmember Scroggins just described, and that development under city controls will undoubtedly be better across all metrics. That said, and I know we're going to talk about this a little bit later in more detail, I'm pretty darn sensitive to water quality impacts, unlike Fayetteville, and it's been a dream of mine to...
 to take a comprehensive plan to restore Lake Fayetteville to more natural water quality. So I'm pretty concerned about that in general. So my approach on this particular item was to try to understand the proportional impact that may be associated with this property in the watershed.
 And one of the things I wanted to look very carefully at was the total size of the watershed and how much of the area, how much of the geography was taken up by this particular property, and also what some of the sources of the existing pollution are. And what I found out is that, well, the source that I mainly used was the Lake Fayetteville Watershed Partnership.
 which exists to try and clean up Lake Fayetteville. What I found out is that there's a very, very small portion of the total watershed that's contributing to our water quality issues with Lake Fayetteville and with some of the flooding that is ongoing that we've seen. The watershed is just so much bigger.
 In fact, I'm optimistic and I believe I've come to the same conclusion that our city engineering department did, which is that this project, as proposed, may actually mitigate some of the water quality issues that we're seeing on the lake today. And the Lake Fayetteville Watershed Partnership defies eroding banks.
 and stream banks which haven't been stabilized or which have had their vegetation removed as being one of the main sources for pollution in the lake. Along with, interestingly enough, people who don't pick up after their dogs. There's more than 400,000 pounds of dog feces estimated are flowing into that Lake Fayetteville watershed today every year.
 I was stunned. So in any case, I'm prepared to support the annexation and probably in leaning towards that as well with the PZD. But I'm, of course, listening carefully to see if there's anything new and compelling that comes up. Okay, what other comments do we have? We're on third reading now. We're fixing to vote this up or down. So any other comments or?
 discussion you want to have.
 I'd just like to reiterate some of the comments I've heard before. You know, I've read every email and I've tried to respond to a lot of them, but I get a lot of emails and if I ever get behind, I can't ever get caught up on them. But I tried to, you know, I tried to read over everything that I got. And, you know, I'm concerned with Lake Fayetteville as well. But when we went, you know, when you go to that site and you look at the creek that is there, you know, you can see that there's a lot of people that are there.
 When we talk about the existing, I mean, the complaints seem to be either we, you know, if we don't annex this or approve this PZD, just poof, all the problems go away. Well, they don't all go away, but they don't get any worse. And that's not necessarily true. I mean, something is going to be built on this property. And I...
 You know, I'd love to see it stay farmland, only have the creek improved. And instead of having just a ditch running through it, have an actual stream with native plants and stuff like that, like you would see a normal creek. But I don't see how we're going to get that in its current form. And I'm really concerned if we don't annex this, that it will be built in the county and we won't have any control over it through wood if it's annexed into the city.
 And that is a real fear for me. And, you know, it's kind of like I've got to weigh it out. What do I think is going to be the worst option? And I think the worst option is to leave it in the county. Thank you. What other discussion do you have? I agree about the annexation. I think that it is important to go ahead and annex this property so that it will be developed with the city of Fayetteville's
 we do have protections that are not offered in the County. So I certainly, after thinking about this a lot, because we did get a lot of correspondence regarding this, and I think some people thought that if it was annexed, then the PZD would have to go along with it. And there was some confusion there. So after separating out things, I certainly am going to vote for the annexation.
 I still have some concerns about the PZD. And I'm just tottering. Like I'm hoping some other people talk about this PZD thing. And so anyway, I do think it's important that we annex this, but the PZD, I'm not comfortable with it 100%. Okay. Anybody else?
 Yeah, I want to echo a lot of what has already been said. And Mark, Councilmember Kenyon and I, I have a little bit of data that I, because I was thinking on the same things. The numbers that I took from Jonathan's, Chris, from his presentation, I got a total of 82.26 acres of,
 And then the math of finding that 56% would be the developed area and 44% would be an open space area. And so that, you know, I've kind of continued to wonder, you know, what was that kind of coming out? And I saw everything from kind of a 25%. But when I actually did the numbers for planning, it was a lot more than I thought, yeah.
 So this isn't necessarily toward the annotation, really talking about the PZD, which you were asking about, Mark. But I do believe that there's been an incredible effort with the developer, with the planning, with everyone working together to try to find what is that balance? What is the smart balance of the use of the land, right?
 responsible use of, you know, storm water management. I do want to clearly say that I don't think, I don't want any of our people who came to speak this evening, and thank you so much for coming to speak and share your, those are very real concerns, those water flooding is very real concerns.
 And I appreciate you guys sticking through with us as you come and share these things. I do think that there's something could be developed there that could be worse, as already stated. And I would love to see a responsible approach from the city, which we saw that we can do,
 And if there are things in Copper Creek or Stonewood that need to be repaired, that we should go back and visit that as well. But I don't think that this is going to fix those issues. In fact, what I hope, and this may be opening a can of worms, but I would love to see that those neighbors come into the city so that we can address those issues and really look at the problem as a whole and the issues, the flooding issues. And I believe Mr.
 Let's see. I think it was Mr. Robertson who discussed how considering the road, you know, the responsibility to the road and the bridge and being able to come and bring all that, think about it as a whole unit. Rethink how the water is flowing there. We have those arrows which was another part of Jonathan's presentation that was really helpful or Chris's presentation.
 And I appreciate the staff really going back and listening to our questions because I feel like all of my questions were answered. And that really is helping me to know that the annexation is going to be an overall benefit. It won't solve the water issues, but if we can kind of continue to work on it overall, we can get to a solution. So I will definitely be supporting the annexation for water quality and future better storm management, stormwater management. Thank you.
 Okay, anybody else? I have a quick question here for Jonathan. Based on Sonya's calculation about the annexation versus the PCD, what are we talking about as far as open space on both of them?
 That's a good question. I may have to defer somewhat to the applicant on that, just because the planning area three on that proposal isn't going to be necessarily conventional open space. Some of it's intended for detention.
 Okay. But if you did mean as the planning areas and the raw acreages are, planning area three is intended to be just over 36 acres and the other two planning areas where the preponderance of the development is intended to be about 46 acres.
 So 46 acres of open space? No, of developed area. Correct. 46 acres between planning area one and two, which is the non-residential piece near Crossover and the residential piece that represents the majority of the area south of Hilton Creek. All right. So in the planning area three, the open space, how is that...
 You know we've got detention ponds and obviously nothing will be built on the detention pond but what about the rest of it. How is that designated in, can that designation change in the future if it's open area now 10 years down the road could it be turned into something else.
 If other uses were proposed into it, that would typically require the City Council to amend the PZD if it's something that's not currently allowed. So that would require going back to the Planning Commission, coming back to the City Council. Is that what you're asking? I think, okay. Okay.
 Planning Area 1, we start from Crossover Road and we go back. Planning Area 1, 2, and 3. In Planning Area 3, on the back part of the property, which is the annexation part, there's some open area also. Now, is that going to be, is that where, you know, is that where detention ponds are or is that just going to be just open parkland area? Yeah.
 It's intended to be a mixture of both. I may share my screen briefly. I'll pull that back up for just to make sure we're all talking about the same thing at the same time. Allow me a second here. So planning area three is a very odd shape, which makes it a little bit more challenging to talk about. What you see here that I'm indicating in kind of the north central portion of the property. We don't have your screen yet, Jonathan.
 Second time's a charm? Yes. All right, I apologize. Thank you. This, it's the odd shaped parcel outlined in red here, which includes those dog ears that have been spoken about often that prevent it from being an island. This portion here in Plenty Year 3 is intended to represent or serve as detention.
 There's intended to be a linear park that serves the other planning area too along here. And this northern piece is what's intended or what's been proposed as park land along Hilton Creek to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, which would ultimately be a planning commission call
 And then there is also an allowance for, I believe it's one unit per two acres on this portion of the property, which effectively would mean you could theoretically have one house on Zion Road when all is said and done. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Certainly. Mr. Mayor, I have some comments and some questions. Sure.
 Um, Jonathan, can you put that put your slide back up there again. Um, you mentioned that the Planning Commission will have the decision about whether planning area three is parkland or not. Is that is that what I understood?
 Yes, sorry, let me get it pulled back up for you. Yes, ma'am, that is correct. The way our Unified Development Code is established is if parkland dedication is intended, if it's one of our larger classifications of development, it has to go to the Parks Board for a recommendation. And that recommendation is taken to the Planning Commission who, as you said, has the ultimate determination on that.
 Now, in previous conversations, maybe I misunderstood, but I thought if the developer wanted to dedicate parkland rather than fee and lieu, that the city had to take that from. That's what I thought the advice of the city attorney was. So I just want to get clear right now where we are on this. There's one caveat to that. It has to be acceptable parkland.
 We have turned down parkland before when it was underneath a large electrical utility lines. And here with the film that was shown, if that is a, according to the people that were showing the film, this is an every year occurrence. And so if every year the land that is being proposed for parkland
 Floods that badly. I think that the Planning Commission would have the option to say that this is simply not acceptable parkland
 uh even though we have accepted some creeks before but in this particular case if it is it looked pretty wide in the flooding and if it really is a very regular occurrence then i think the planning commission would be justified in saying that at least some of the land that was being proposed for parkland is not acceptable because of the frequent flooding okay thank you so much for clearing up that that ambiguity for me okay
 All right, and thank you, Jonathan, for putting that up. I probably don't need that anymore. So I do have a lot of comments.
 This is a very, very complex situation. Frankly, I'm very disappointed with the city of Fayetteville that we're allowing this flooding to continue to our residents, not the county residents, although they shouldn't have to endure flooding either. And it seems like if the problem is with these two developments that the city approved and had built.
 even though they were under old standards, that we ought to be good citizens and retrofit and remediate that problem right now before we do anything. If I were a homeowner in that area, I would be horrified to have to figure out what my budget was to deal with the flooding that I was going to experience every year in the springtime. I just think that that's terrible.
 So that's the first thing. I really think the city needs to fix that immediately. I know we've got ongoing discussions about stormwater fees and that sort of thing, but this is a serious issue right now. So that's my first comment. The second one is, sure, it looks like the...
 Our specifications, our codes are superior, far superior than Washington County's. But if the annexation comes along with the development, then I think there's some serious problems. The calculation that Jonathan, that Mr. Kurth put together, I thank you for doing that exercise. I know it's very difficult. You have to make lots of assumptions. Yes.
 But even under your scenario right now, as Ms. Gaston pointed out, those 6.2 acres in Planning Area 1, most of that is already within the city. It's not part of the annexation at all. And only Planning Area 1 gives you a positive above a 1 in terms of the cost-benefit analysis. That's already in the city.
 So, you know, the other 40 acres in planning area two where you have less than one you have less benefit to the city. That's part of the annexation. So we already have the, if you will, the money generator already within the city, the city property.
 He also estimated over 880 residents and 150 full-time employees. That, it's hard for me to see 150 full-time employees in those areas. Again, I know you had to make a lot of assumptions, but are those realistic? Really, really hard to know the future. I'll shift now a little bit to the area, to the...
 You know, that piece of property, the annex property, contains nine wetlands that were identified by the FTN report. Sure, there are only 5.8 acres of wetlands left.
 But those areas right now, those fields, those wetlands, those are providing filtration for all of that runoff that's occurring, that's going in Lake Fayetteville. Those are actually providing some filtration that we are going to lose with this annexation process.
 When you pave over almost all of that property where those wetlands are, you're going to create a bigger problem. In some of Mr. Brown's presentations, he talked about the city codes are designed to not do any more harm, but they're not going to fix anything either. I think that is going to be a tremendous challenge. Even to not do any more harm is going to be huge.
 The developer is going to have to bring in truckload after truckload of fill. Those wetlands are going to have to be filled in. And I don't really, to me, it doesn't really matter if they're under federal jurisdiction or not. That's all complicated up there in Washington with what's considered waters of the United States. So that argument's been going on a long time. The fact is they're wetlands. Right.
 That's the fact. And the developer is going to have to fill those in with truckload after truckload of dirt and fill. During the process of the building process, we're going to have to closely monitor to make sure that none of that fill runs off into Lake Fayetteville and does additional damage.
 I mean Lake Fayetteville is in bad shape right now. I mean these harmful algal blooms, once you get an algal bloom to the magnitude that we've seen the last three years, they're very difficult to get rid of. So it's so much easier to prevent contamination than to actually clean it up. And we do have a serious phosphorus and E. coli problem. We've got the lab results back. So those are our ongoing serious issues.
 I am on the fence about whether to annex or not, but I'm not on the fence about the development. The development is way too large. It's outside of the mayor's law box. It's not compatible with the surrounding neighborhoods at all. And there's no inclusion of any of anticipated stormwater cost in Mr. Kurtz analysis. And I know those are further downstream and that's why he didn't include them.
 But with this amount of flooding that we've seen with these two videos, I mean, that is a very, very serious issue that we're going to have to address. And adding this development will make it worse. I don't believe that it will make it neutral. I think it will make it much worse than it is right now.
 So those are my comments. And this is just a very, very complex area that really needs a lot of help. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments about the annexation? Okay. Let's go ahead and vote. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Erdsberg? No.
 Yes, it's here is yes. Jones. No. Okay. All right. Thank you all. Let's move along to number 4, an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district title, Rpcd.
 2020-0002 for approximately 81.89 acres located at 3435 East Zion Road. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I move. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? Petty? Scroggins? Yes.
 Banks? Yes. Tarrick? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled RPCD 2020-0002 for approximately 81.89 acres located at 3435 East Zion Road.
 okay since the staff is already presented in the previous item I'm going to allow the applicant to have 10 minutes in this one and then if there's questions for the staff or uh we will open it up to that as well so with the applicant like 10 minutes to speak for the council Allie you're muted
 Sorry about that. Phone call, audio, and Zoom. This is currently beyond my technical capabilities. We're here to answer any questions that city councilors may have specific to the PVD, any of the technical questions that have come up. I think it's important to note that while the most productive areas, the commercial areas, are
 Mostly in the area of the city that you know is not being annexed. I also think it's important to note that those areas are not currently zone to allow that development. And so part of the PVD passing is providing for that, you know, really profitable development area as a whole. So, you know, we've had some
 arguments against the annexation for that reason. But I think part of the PZD itself, we have broad support from city staff, from a number of studies that have been required as part of this review process. And we hope that overall it meets needs. Thanks. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff and the applicant on this, on the PZD from the city council? Okay. Well, we don't have any questions. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one term to speak. Five minute duration, broke into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage any council members. Stay on the topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Please unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address from the public on this? Nobody from the public. Here we are. Joseph Robertson. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just wanted to speak about a few points that we haven't addressed yet as we've been focused more on the annexation. As far as the financial impacts, I know Mr. Anthony covered it pretty well with the historical examples of pollution in a lake that directly affected the community.
 I'm afraid that we're going to tip over that point with additional flooding and therefore the pollution into the lake. So also with the cost benefit analysis that was done, so it calls out area number one as the main driver of the benefit. And I may be misreading it, but it looks like
 almost $800,000 of annual tax revenue is called out there, but it looks like it goes to Springdale schools in the county. So if that's even partially true, it's hard for me to understand why the city of Fayetteville would want the development done. So as you've heard already, our flooding is our primary concern for the neighbors.
 But that not only impacts us, it also increases the erosion and therefore the pollution into Lake Fayetteville and our city's backup water supply. So I would say it definitely impacts the city as a whole. So I just really want us to be careful with this. And I'm worried about how we're going to just from our track record, how we're going to
 and make sure that we don't negatively impact it. So how do we do this measuring of before and after and know not just we think it's correct, but we know we did not do harm. So some of the other concerns I think have probably been addressed as long as we stick with
 the way the PCD states today, so like added traffic to Zion, assuming that we don't have exits on Zion Road. We have stated issues with safety on the bridge. Since it's brought before the City Council, I've personally witnessed four dump trucks go over that bridge and one fire truck, including an assault truck.
 It just, it worries me that we're saying that we're not going to take responsibility for the maintenance of the bridge, but it's obviously already an issue and we're going to make it more of an issue as we add more people to this area. So, and also with the exits on Zion, if we end up having those, they pose their own safety concerns related to the 90 degree turns that we have next to the bridge
 the land that we're talking about. And I know they've mentioned only having like an emergency exit and assuming that we can make it only emergency. I think that will address a lot of the traffic concerns. And I believe that's all I have. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Margaret Britton. Go ahead.
 I'm sorry. I think I'm off mute now. Yes. Okay. Okay. I'm Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. I'm not in this neighborhood, but very concerned about the lake and
 the water resources in Arkansas. Not so long ago, the city of Fayetteville and Springdale and the federal government paid for a big study that the Water Resources Center did. They said that this land, they termed this land sensitive. We know that we've got nine wetlands on the land. We know that we have hydric soils. You might want to take a second look at that hydric soil map.
 Hydric soils are formed under conditions of saturation
 flooding, I'm reading this from a definition, or ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part. That means that water has been on top of this land long enough for enough times to develop this soil type, which has a whole different biota in it because it is anaerobic rather than a typical aerobic soil.
 The only reason I'm stressing this is that you have to be really aware that no matter what happens with the Corps of Engineers determination finally on these wetlands, this is a wetland. There are nine wetlands. There's five point acres of wetland. It's sensitive. We know that. And it's hydric soils. Whether it's jurisdictional or not, we'll find out. Okay.
 This is, to say this is a complex issue is the least of the problems. It's very complex. I'm very worried about the phosphorus from this land going into the lake. I know that the developer has worked a lot to try to mitigate this, but there is a limit to how much we can engineer ourselves out of. This is a very, very wet area. We have a very impaired lake.
 If you do go in the direction of approving this PZD, please get the flood study done first, the Corps of Engineers wetland delineation done first, and then consider development. Also, the septic fields that are now in the city, as of minutes ago,
 need to be, need to go on sewer. That's another finding that this study that you paid for from the Water Resources Center recommended was get rid of septic in the Lake Fayetteville watershed. I know that you're headed toward 100-year flood protection, but why don't we ask for 100-year channel protection too? Most important, this parkland. Now,
 The city attorney said that perhaps the parkland is not suitable because it floods so much. The fact that it floods so much is one reason we should take it as parkland, as parkland to protect another park. As parkland, it would be, and you can ask the developer to guarantee this, it would be fully renovated with native plants so that it would,
 be a better flood zone when it does flood and it would also take up phosphorus which then the phosphorus would be removed in the plants once or twice a year with cutting. So I think all of these things have to be taken into account if you go in the direction of approving this PZD. I beg you to be very responsible to the environment in terms of flooding
 sediment into the lake, phosphorus in the lake, all the way to the Gulf of Mexico. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Kyle Smith. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I also do not live in this neighborhood or anywhere near it. I'm a clear across town on the west side where we are used to bearing the breadth of high demand for new housing in town.
 and so I would like to take a moment to encourage the spreading of the wealth a little bit to that end. It is important that we treat all of the area of town to share in the new development demand.
 This in particular being connected to the mayor's box, it is, while it is outside, it is adjacent to and attached to the mayor's box, I think is an important note. Also that 265 is a little different from most of the other legs and that it does continue north as a major route to Springdale and other Northwest Arkansas cities. So that I think equips it better to handle some higher density developments right along. Yeah.
 I would echo the sentiment of some of the neighbors about water quality and say that it is exciting to hear members of the council speak up so strongly about their commitment to water quality. And I would say if you don't trust our development regulations as they are right now, then
 then by all means please please strengthen them as quickly as possible and don't just do that for this one property and and for Lake Fayetteville but for all of the development that will happen around town that would and the surrounding areas that would benefit from more assurances as to water quality. I personally think that our regulations do an adequate job. I would always like to see a little more out of them but I think that they
 um have the guarantees that are and promise what's needed to to justify bringing this in and taking care like that so i would support this uh at the pzd now that we've annexed it and uh thank you very much thank you who else like to address haley young go ahead um hi my name is haley young from 3260 idlewood way
 And sorry about that. My mom was about to come in. And I am a green team leader of Hoss Hall Academy, as well as a rower for Lake Fayetteville. And I would just like to say I would love to see land be annexed and environmentally put through. As I don't like the quality of the lake now, and I would not like to see it go even further down in quality.
 I think that it's a win-win situation, cleaning up the lake as well as keeping this environmentally sustainable, as this is going to be a thing everyone can use in the future, and it is a lost benefit if we let this lake go to waste. And with the phosphorus that could come in, that's just
 looking for eutrophication as well as like red the blue green algae like dog deaths that's a very big possibility I would just like to also echo the sentiments made by previous speakers I think this is a very like tricky issue and I do not have all the information but I have to say that
 I think that this is a very important thing to annex this land as well as take it on for a park or to regulate it with severity, because I would like to see Lake Fayetteville be its best. And I think that's possible with your help. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Nicholas Anthony. Go ahead.
 All right, well thanks again. I have a few more things to comment on. This is Nick Anthony from 3301 East Zion Road. I live in the county. I actually live right in the elbow of this property that we're talking about. And over the past few months, you've been provided with scientific evidence that building a high density development on the southern portion of the Burge Farm would have a detrimental impact on residents along Hilton Creek and Lake Fayetteville.
 For example, if you reviewed the information you would know that the area is considered for development made up of weathered Fayetteville shale has a tremendous shrink and swell potential
 You would have learned that the soil works like a sponge that expands and shrinks and you would have seen a video of how this describes this type of soil and the question is why is this relevant? Well from June to October we rarely have any water runoff from the development site. However, once saturated the water will continue to leach out of the soil. Water in Hilton Creek
 during the summer reflects the runoff from Copper Creek development and is often dried by summer end. The addition of the development will lead to frequent water flow to Lake Fayetteville because every rain event over the development is equivalent to flushing 40 acres of contaminants into the lake. Detention ponds or not, the summer rains from this site will go to Lake Fayetteville.
 In fact, based on the average summer rainfall totals for Fayetteville, expect an additional 20 million gallons of high density development water to enter Lake Fayetteville. All that rainwater would have to be handled by absorption, or would have normally been handled by absorption into the soil, plant growth and evaporation in the mounds and swale region of the Burge Farm.
 If you read my letters, you would know that development region meets the criteria for wetlands. I knew this 15 years ago because Robert Burge told me in one of our fence side chats. The recent wetland survey has agreed to this. And if you review the new FEMA flood map, hopefully you did, you would see that much of the central portion of the proposed development is in a floodplain.
 The architect wants to move the wetlands to another area on the farm because the current location interferes with the proposed development. I'm not really sure how it works. In fact, I think the retired geologist, Mr. Lang, summarized this one, the best one, and one of his reports summarized it as this. The mound and swale topography also serves the function of cleaning the water before it enters streams, lakes, and rivers. They've been compared to our own kidneys that filter out impurities.
 The Chandler Crossing will be removing these kidneys and putting Lake Fayetteville on a dialysis program, which will be designed by the developer. Ms. Britton did a brilliant job of educating us over the past few months about the blue-green algae threat to Lake Fayetteville. Lake Fayetteville is on the 2018 list of impaired water bodies, and during the past two summers, the level of toxic algae in the lake was so high that the health department required the city to notify the public to its danger.
 The toxic can be deadly to animals and dangerous to humans. And the large growth of algae is a result of too much phosphorus in the lake. Recent water tests on Hilton Creek shows phosphorus levels are already too high. Plus runoff from Chandler's Crossing acres of heated pavements and roofs will increase the temperature of the water going to the lake, thus leading to more outward growth.
 You would have found scientific discussion of the septic system and central sewer system. This discussion provides sound science behind the dangers of system failure in each case. Imagine if 70 to 100,000 gallons of sewage leaks into Fayetteville Clear Creek watershed from this project. Do you think this is impossible? Well, why don't you ask the residents of Salem Village and Clapper Creek who experienced that very thing almost exactly one year ago.
 Given the fact that Chandler Crossing is located over the Boom limestone and close to Lake Fayetteville, a failure as described would be an environmental disaster. Any leaks will flow downslope, both on surface and underground, towards Lake Fayetteville. Probably not the best outcome. I do want to come back to the one question, and this is, again, I think it really needs to be answered because I think you're putting a value to this development.
 I want to know what the proposed price points for the housing and apartments are going to be in this PZD. And thank you for your time and appreciate you letting me have the opportunity to talk. Thank you. Colleen Gaston. Go ahead, Colleen.
 Thank you again, Mayor and City Council members. My name's Colleen Gaston. I live at 3270 North Rom Orchard Road, Fayetteville, Arkansas, 72703. And I can just briefly touch on three aspects related to the proposed PZD. The first is that the December 11th, 2020 spillway study performed by FTN was not addressed
 or has not been addressed by the staff or by the applicant. And during extreme weather events, the stormwater runoff from the developed PZD will exceed the runoff from the current undeveloped site and this will
 only exacerbate the inadequacy of the existing dam and spillway as noted in the STN report. So I think that that issue needs to be taken to consideration by the council. The next thing that I'd like to counsel to think about is that this PZD emphatically does not utilize low impact development or LID as it's called design principles.
 The council has the authority to deny the PZD as proposed and to express its desire that future rezoning proposals for this property are designed to, should be designed to protect the water quality of the lake, preserve the environment of the botanical gardens, and protect the environmentally sensitive wetlands, and also beneficial, I mean, you know,
 You've heard enough. I think everyone understands that wetlands provide a real benefit to ecosystems. They provide an ecosystem service that is valuable and should be accorded that value. And they shouldn't be just written off as Ms. Quinlan apparently did by saying, well, all of Fayetteville was prairie potholes and mounds. And it's all been paved over and it's all good. I think that we now know enough about that.
 the importance of wetlands to give them the protection that they deserve. And my last point is related to detention at the facility, you know this idea that the stormwater detention can be engineered so that
 conditions are improved that maybe phosphorus is reduced. And I think that's a questionable assumption, you know, and if even if you allow that phosphorus may be reduced somewhat, but I really think that that's unlikely given that most of the literature on the subject says that detention basins will remove about 80% of the total suspended solids. But that means that,
 20% are not removed and it is suspended solids that generally have the phosphorus bound to them. But one thing that hasn't been talked about much is that because detention ponds primarily rely on gravitational settling as their primary source,
 pollutant removal mechanisms. They only generally provide fair to good removal for particulate pollutants, such as TSS, but low or limited removal of soluble pollutants, such as metals, soluble phosphorus, which is another component of phosphorus,
 Total nitrogen, nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen, pesticides, herbicides, oil, gasoline, diesel, solvents, refrigerants, detergents, the list goes on. But note that these are pollutants that are associated with urban runoff, not with agricultural runoff. And you are going to get drastically increased urban runoff when you have the type of impervious pollutants
 area that is that we're looking at in this PCD. I'd also refer to the as a last quick thing to the the legislation text. I think it needs to be clarified. It's not even clear exactly what's going to be improved. It says 6.2 acres for commercial and multifamily uses but that's not limited in any way. I think what was the numbers that were used in the fiscal analysis are totally
 too high and inappropriate for this sensitive location. And also there is no definition of the 36.06 acres for low density residential and agricultural uses that should be defined in the legislation text because that's what you're improving. And you are gonna, you have the possibility of getting up to what is approved in the legislature
 the legislation and if it's not clearly stated then down the road there may the the council be maybe faced thank you I'm sorry if I went over I'm not understanding how this clock works apparently thank you you're welcome who else would like to address this Sandy Formica go ahead can you guys hear me yes
 Okay, thank you for allowing me to speak. This is Sandy Formica. I live at 1327 East Ridgeway Drive in Fayetteville. And I'm going to be brief. The stream that flows through the property, there is...
 It has a variety of qualities throughout its watershed. And though it has been channelized, that's not the worst quality.
 section of stream for that feature. And also the wetlands and the mounds that are onsite. If you look at the LIDAR data and also some of the aerial photography, you can see that there's actually quite a bit of mounds that have remained intact. And so if this property is developed,
 and we're looking at open space, if there was a possibility to take into consideration leaving some of the wetlands and the mounds in open space, I think that would be a great idea.
 um if you know it's okay to put some energy towards that stream but there's worse stream bank erosion problems in the watershed and um but there's not those intact prairie mounds and wetlands everywhere so i just would like um if it is developed for that to be taken in consideration on the development design okay thank you thank you who else would like to address nobody else mayor
 Okay, well I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's left on the second reading. What discussions or what wishes of the council do we have? Sorry, go ahead, Sloan. Oh, I just, we are on the second reading. I mean, I don't think we'll be voting on this tonight, but I do think that having a PZD in a plan is better than
 Basically having no plan and rezoning to something like RSF4. So I hope a lot of our conversation now and then maybe in two weeks is geared on trying to make this PZD better. So that we actually kind of now that we're doing a PZD, I really like PZDs. It's like you're buying a car and you get to actually get in the engine and start looking at stuff.
 instead of just like a name of a car. So I hope that we do have a conversation on improving this if we have reservations about approving the PCD. So, Simone, you said you would like to hold it on the second reading? Just not vote on it tonight. It can go to the  yeah. Okay, but  okay, I got you. What other discussion do we have?
 I wanted to, you know, we talk about the, a lot of people have talked about the property tax of the, you know, the part of the, I guess it would be planning area one, which has the most diversified use and has the most commercial use.
 possibility in it, would be the moneymaker, I guess, for the city. And they talk about the property taxes going to Springdale schools. And I'd like to remind people that there are subdivisions and there are students that live in Fayetteville that do go to Springdale schools. And when we send, you know, when we have tax dollars that go to another school district, it's not
 It's usually we have citizens and students that are going to that school district as well. And we should try and, you know, I mean, it's not just contained only in Fayetteville. We kind of want the education to be good in the entire area. But I also wanted to bring up that, you know, we talk about
 Just the value of the land and the property taxes generated by the land and where they go. But we have, we really don't have any way to anticipate, but I know it will be a great influence when we have housing in there that we will get a substantial amount of sales tax revenue from these homes.
 People will, you know, they'll shop in Fayetteville, they may shop in Springdale, but they'll probably shop in Fayetteville. They'll get their gas in Fayetteville, they'll go to restaurants and bars in Fayetteville. And so those tax dollars, when we have people being able to live in homes in Fayetteville, we have to anticipate that we also get tax dollars from that.
 Where do, so some of the programs in our city are funded by sales tax dollars. So what would be some of those programs, just to remind people? So for instance, like transportation, parks, you know, what goes into our general fund and that sort of thing, just to remind people, it's not just the property tax income. Is Devin on? Devin, are you there? Yeah.
 I am. Can you hear me, Mayor? Good evening, Council Member Bunch. In regards to specific uses of what we use sales tax for, I'm going to defer to our Chief Financial Officer, Paul, for that. In regards to the sales tax in collections that Council Member Bunch mentioned, and Jonathan touched on in his presentation, and anywhere in Arkansas, we're going to be
 see sales tax heavy, just with low property tax values. And one of the things that we were looking at, and I actually rely on Chung, given she's an economic development finance professional, to look at those property tax numbers for me, that those revenues are going to Springdale School District, but it's in the Springdale Fayetteville District. And so Fayetteville on that does get a portion of property tax. It's always going to be a very, very small portion of revenue for us.
 And so anytime we look at that too, one of the items that I wanted to touch on in regards to sales tax is when we think about people and we think about employees on the site, those aren't our big revenue drivers. They do have a major impact. We saw that in the railroad crossing discussion at Greg and Van Ash with the massive injection of housing there. But the slide that Jonathan showed that shows crossover and mission,
 And we pulled 6.2 acres and I intentionally did not include a liquor store or grocery store. That would have not been fair to the analysis. And it's extremely high. And Fayetteville's restaurants, too, one of the things that we have noted and why I do feel comfortable in these numbers, that they are conservative on a perfect basis is because our restaurants and our retailers do perform higher.
 on a per square foot average. It's something we've seen. Our tax collections are very strong compared to what many economists and modelists say. And so in regards to uses and what we as the city use that for, Council Member Bunch, I would defer to Paul Becker, but I'm happy to reiterate on how we get sales tax if I can. Okay, thank you. Come on up, Paul.
 Sorry, I was watching upstairs and I had to get down here, but our sales tax on many, many programs. It's 60% of the general fund, so it funds most of the basic operations of the city, police, fire,
 things of that nature. It also helps to fund the parks and some of the parks programs if we're looking some of the amenities that we're discussing. Also remember 40% of the one penny in sales tax, which is roughly between eight and $9 million funds our ongoing capital program. That capital program funds many, many things. It funds some of the money goes to parks
 overlays within the system, a lot of money in transportation, sidewalks throughout the city. So sales tax funds many, many things in the city, not only operational needs of the city, but also many capital programs. I'll not be happy to answer if you have any specifics on that, but like I said, we have to remember roughly $8 million worth of sales tax goes to capital improvement programs.
 You can look in the five-year plan. We'll identify some of those programs to you. Also funds 60% of the general fund and the general fund operations. So sales tax funds many, many things in the city. Also those sales tax help pay off our bond issues. Those bond issues essentially are the $123 million that we sold in bond issues that fund streets,
 parks, the corridor program, the police facility, the fire facility, all of those programs are funded by sales tax. We're funded by a bond issue, and that bond issue won't be paid off by sales tax. In the future, we'll have to have other bond issues, probably, to keep the capital program moving forward. But sales tax really...
 I'm going to quote a phrase that John Latour used to use that actually got from me, or that we agreed upon that it's our lifeblood is sales tax. So it's very, very important in the funding of the city.
 both in operations and capital. Sorry to be long-winded, but like to go on for a long time. I hope that answers your question. It does. It does. I wanted to remind everyone, and I was hoping they'd hear it from you and not so much from me, and I really appreciate you coming down from your office.
 running down the stairs or running up the stairs, down the stairs to get to the microphone there. I appreciate that, Paul. That really kind of reiterates my point that it's not, we do need to consider the property tax, but it's not only the property tax that is important when we think about development
 And it's not just that the property tax goes to Springdale schools because we have many students in Fayetteville, especially in this area where we have Springdale's Fayetteville overlap as far as schools that go to school in Springdale. I've had relatives that lived in Fayetteville and went to school in Springdale because of where they lived.
 So it's important that we don't look at everything just staying right in Fayetteville because that education of the students in Springdale that happen to be Fayetteville citizens is also important. Thank you.
 So, Paul, while you're still there at the podium, or at least in the same chamber or the same floor, I have a follow-up question. Could you tell us how much the city annually spends on stormwater repairs and maintenance, and then how much the city has estimated how much they need to keep up with the current stormwater issues that we are experiencing today? Sure.
 off my head. I can't answer you. I know we looked at that when we were doing the, during the study that we talked about for a potential stormwater utility.
 I know that Chris worked on that. I don't know if Chris can help me with that number. Sure. Chris and Alan are both here, and the stormwater utility study is still underway. But as far as an annual budget, if Chris or Alan could answer, that'd be great.
 And let me try to address the difficulty in that, if I could, Teresa, it's scattered through many different funds. Part of it is paid out of transfers, part of it is in transportation, part of it is in the capital improvement fund.
 As we know, we have a bond issue for drainage, so it's over. But you're talking about the annual maintenance, and that number I would have to get. Like I said, it was calculated, but I'm sorry. I don't want to come right off the top of my head in case I'm wrong on it. Chris is here.
 I've been communicating with Alan to see if he has specific numbers. I don't have those specific numbers, but I think it's pretty obvious that we're pretty woefully underfunded. The bond program did allow us to catch up on a few of our very large critical infrastructure needs, but from a
 from an operational standpoint, you know, we're maybe at 10% of the funding level that we really need to fully fund and do some of the things that the study has identified that we could be or should be doing. So, yeah, it's an issue, obviously. Thank you.
 And Chris, I don't have maintenance in particular broken out of that, but it's about $1.5 million annually that we spend today. You know, depending on the various options that you selected, those ranged in price up to...
 Somewhere in the neighborhood of about $4 million, I think, is where we're going to land, probably three and a half or four. So hopefully, Teresa, that gets us close enough to answer your question. But as we continue that conversation, hopefully here in the next couple of months, we can get some more accurate data for you.
 Okay, thank you. But just to be clear, you used the $4 million as where you think you might land, but I know there's several different, there's an A and a B and a C and an A plus a C or something like that. There's various scenarios of land.
 of what would be charged to the residents if this were passed. I guess, what is the high-end number of what it would take to really retrofit these detention ponds, do annual inspections, maintenance, all of those kinds of things that are rolled into that
 into that big dollar number. And the reason why I'm asking this, obviously, is Sarah took his path down the path of sales tax. But I also want to illustrate that we're so far behind in our stormwater fees that we might even have to create a utility fee just to catch up. And with this development, that will add more to that need if that is passed. Sure, and...
 Again, I'd hesitate to kind of guess that those are going off my memory just because it may be incorrect. And I apologize that I don't have those numbers directly in front of me. But as far as the detention base and retrofits, it did add quite a bit of capital into the program if we were going to do that en masse.
 So, you know, option A, and this was early in the program that I'm looking on, was about 3.5 million. Option B, which included those detention base and retrofits, was about $8 million. I think we finally, as a committee anyway, settled on option AB, if you will, or a blended option between those two, which landed in that around 4 to $4.5 million range.
 It did include quite a bit of CIP. I will tell you it wasn't as robust in the detention basin retrofits as the full option B was. So to answer your question, I believe you could be approaching $8 million if we started selecting everything that we wanted to do. And Alan, is that $8 million annually or is that a total amount? That is annually. Okay.
 Okay, thank you very much. And that would deal, if we got to the $8 million, that would deal with all those detention failures and retrofits to bring it up to the current city code. Is that correct? That is correct. And that was spread out in the capital program, which was about a 15 to 20 year program. Okay, thank you so much. What other discussion do we have?
 I think one of the reasons that we're having such difficulty paying for stormwater and transportation and a lot of these issues is the actual lack of density that we've been billing that and doesn't bring in the property taxes that's needed to actually pay for the infrastructure. There's a lot of cities that end up in almost in a race where they have to approve more and more low density developments so that they can pay for their previous low density developments.
 So that's just something to consider when we talk about the cost of actually taking care of sprawl. You actually want to increase your tax base in both sales tax and property taxes in an area so that you can pay for that infrastructure. So I feel like sometimes the issue is coming from...
 or the solution to an issue is the original issue and you end up kind of just in this massive circle. What other discussion do we need to have? I just have a few points. I think, you know, the, I think as I'm,
 looking at the future for this property, you know, as we look at how things are developing with climate change, I really do want to have a very responsible way to have this developed and I do believe we're going in the right direction. I'm not completely convinced that it's in the best possible form, but I understand the process which Jonathan very clearly laid out will will get to that as the studies, as we compare the studies
 with what needs to happen. I am very concerned about Mr. Anthony's living in the elbow because where that where that little L shape happens there's a lot of development just right up against that edge so I'm very concerned and it also overlaps with one of those arrows from another one of I think Chris's maps, Chris's maps and so
 I think, you know, Allie Quinlan's presentation about doing density to help to prevent sprawl and improve the water quality where we can kind of separate where there's development, where there's green space. I think continuing to go and hone in that direction is what I'd love to see. And I believe Ms. Formica's comments about
 considering to see if we can integrate more of the mounds would be awesome. And she also mentioned that the stream area that she felt that that wasn't the worst part of the stream area. So I'm interested to see and learn more about where the issues are. Or where we could, you know, if there are places that we can address that will solve more problems. I'm sure she would be involved in that conversation.
 Another, and I guess I'm kind of getting to like, there's still a little bit more ways to go. And so I'm definitely leaning toward council member Scroggins leaning toward not necessarily making a decision tonight, but the, I believe Chris Brown also made a comment that we didn't really have wetland regulations.
 And we typically have left that at a federal level. And so that concerns me as well. So maybe do we need to consider what we do when the jurisdiction kind of falls in our lap? So these are things I'm thinking about and feel like we need to still hone in a little bit further, but we're definitely going in the right direction. And I trust that between plannings,
 you know, what they get back from those studies that we can, you know, really think about what climate change and how that all kind of intersects. And also to protect those people's property, you know, however best we can as well, even if they're not in the city. I hope at some point they would be annexed, but I think we should be considerate of our neighbors. What other comments do we have?
 Well, as we go forward, I certainly have appreciated the insights on the PZD. I do want to remind the City Council that we do have a low-impact development guidelines that was approved by City Council probably eight years ago. I'm not sure. And this is such a sensitive area. I'm a little bit disappointed that there is not a...
 The utilization of the guidelines that we have. This is sensitive. This is going to impact one of the impaired lakes that we have in the area that should be so sensitive.
 cherished that we would do anything to get it healthier. And so I'm having a lot of struggle here looking at the different information that we have received. And being a scientist and I've been on the water sewer solid waste committee now, I think for 11 years where we've I've learned a lot about stormwater management and
 I really think that this is a critical decision and it has to be considered with a very critical eye towards the real science behind the runoff into this watershed going into Lake Fayetteville. So, yeah.
 um that it's a struggle for me because i would like to see this to be developed responsibly i know that it's going to be developed one of these days anyway i'm glad we got it annexed so that we can use uh some of the authority of the city but at this point i don't see that the pzd is meeting the criteria that i would expect in a high density development in this area
 Okay. Anybody else? I assume we're going to leave it right here, unless you all would want to do something else, whatever that might be. Any other conversation? Okay. So I assume we're just going to leave it here for two weeks. Okay. All right. Well, it's 820 and the mayor needs short breaks. So about 830, we will start again. Okay, let's get going. Okay.
 Okay, I'm going to call us back to order again. Let's see. We're on number five of old business. An ordinance come in 161.22 community services to move use unit eight single family dwellings and use unit nine two family dwellings from committed uses to conditional uses. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Brogdon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Herd? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Warren?
 I have an ordinance to amend section 161.22 community services to move use unit 8 single family dwellings and use unit 9 two family dwellings from permitted uses to conditional uses. Okay, we will open up for questions to the staff. Jonathan, who's got that?
 Mayor, I am present. This was former Council Member Smith's item. The only thing I would have to add is I did receive a couple pieces of public comment today from developers in the city that have CS zoned properties. I know previously we'd heard from a gentleman who develops on the northwest side of town who was in favor of the amendment. These two are on the south and southwest sides of Fayetteville. They had reservations about the
 about the amendment and that have concerns that they rezone to see us specifically to have the flexibility to develop single and two family uses by right. So I just wanted to share that with the council and I'll otherwise be available for any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have in the council on this? Okay. We don't have any questions. Let's take some public comment.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have five minutes duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage any council members stay on topic no rude behavior give us your name and address and this time it will be federal residents first and please press star nine on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized on mute so we can hear you who would like to address us from the public will dockery go ahead
 Hello Mr. Mayor, Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet, Fayetteville. I just want to ask you and City Council, are we building a suburb or are we building a city? And if the Council doesn't think that this is the right ordinance, do they have plans for other ordinances to help fix some of the problems that we are experiencing?
 in the fact that there's a lack of nodes, especially on the west side of town, because it took three years for this to come before y'all. And if it's gonna take another three years for another ordinance to come through, I mean, the west side is just gonna be a giant suburb at that point. That's what I'm worried about. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No one else. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 uh this is on the third and final reading file comments to the council
 well i agree with the whoever called in and said that they have community service uh services property because they wanted the flexibility uh i am sorry that there is a part of the west side of town that is being pointed out for this because this is not just about the west side of town it's about developing property throughout the city and the
 The opportunity for development is as much the market as it is the restriction of the market. And I don't like more restrictions when it comes to property management. There has to be some restrictions. The community services specifically and urban thoroughfare specifically are too 
 components of our code that do allow a broad range of development. If you don't want a broad range of development, then we shouldn't approve that zoning. We knew what the zoning was whenever we approved that. And I know that people are saying, theoretically, we didn't get it. Look what's happened. I say the people that are living in their home that was built out in that area that love their home, we shouldn't vilify. Uh,
 suburbs, not the new urbanist division, but there's room for everyone, new urbanism, traditional. And I think that with this further restriction, we don't allow the opportunity for that flexibility. So I have to look at it that way. That's just how...
 We are trying to make it an opportunity for developers to feel confident that they can live and they can build in Fayetteville. And we're not going to change the rules on them in the middle of things. And we've had such a tremendous amount of growth.
 And a lot of the property that's been purchased has been purchased under the current zoning regulations that we have. And I just hate to see us again, because if you look at the history of Fayetteville, we kind of have the history of changing the rules. So I can't support this. When we talk about options, I think it's important that we look at the options of the clients.
 You've got a salad bar and it's all iceberg lettuce, and then you say they could have made spinach, but they didn't. That's problematic. The client doesn't get to choose when the builder is specifically only building one type, which is what's happening on the west side of Fayetteville.
 didn't write the ordinance for CS. Clearly, we wrote it wrong. And we put in a massive amount of infrastructure over on the west side of Fayetteville for higher density, density way higher than single family. And we basically wasted that money. And so the last issue, the one that should we have right before this one is we don't have the infrastructure for the density,
 But now over here, we've got way more infrastructure than density and that's hurting sales tax and property taxes. So I didn't write the code.
 It's an abject failure. And I do have clients, when they buy over in West Fayetteville, they feel like they're in Fayetteville White or a holding place to be in the real Fayetteville. And that's not a place that you kind of want your city to be at. That's how people feel that they don't have...
 the jobs over there. They don't have the things to go to that they have to drive somewhere, whether it be Roger Benton or the east side off of getting across I-49. So I understand the developers feel that they may be cheated out of this, but the average citizens aren't, they don't have options over there. It's basically single family, or they have to pay three, four, 500,000 for something in East Fayetteville.
 Well, I have a few comments. The first one is the issue with West Fayetteville is that we don't have those commercial nodes. That's not about building single family dwellings. That's about the commercial developers not choosing to build a commercial node over there.
 So if we really wanted to have commercial buildings, we would not have rezoned those properties that were originally zoned for commercial. So I think that is a big shortcoming of West Fayetteville right now. But I'm hopeful that in the future, there will be some commercial development over there. And we truly will be able to have that node in that neighborhood where people can walk if they choose to. You know, I think that's a big part of it.
 You know, when I was out running for city council, I knocked on all those doors out there. And, you know, the people out there, they were happy where they were living. They liked living where they were.
 their issues were just like they are the rest of the city they didn't want any more development because the traffic was so bad so that's what I heard over and over again they loved where they were living they loved Fayetteville they were great to be there but they didn't want any more development and they didn't want any more traffic so that was the the number one feedback that I received thank you
 Yeah, I think that's a good segue. Sarah, where are you going to go? Go ahead. No, go ahead. Okay. Teresa's comments about what she discovered as she, Councilmember Turk's canvassing was what I found as well in my Ward 1. People are really concerned about traffic. And to me, bringing amenities within and amongst the neighborhoods is a great way to solve that issue.
 And so, you know, when we have amenities amongst and sprinkled through the neighborhoods, we don't have to worry about trying to drive so far for a job or to take care of quick errands. And so, you know, I wasn't around when the CS and the UT was closed.
 created zonings and I think that we learned how they came to be used and they maybe weren't used how we envisioned, but maybe that was how the original planning commission did envision.
 Um, so I, I guess I don't want to go, go back and talk about that, but I'm thinking about where are we today? Um, you know, and traffic is kind of a hot topic that I just hear constantly. Um, and I think, I think trying to, to figure out how to bring less, uh, chance for people to have to drive is a great, is a great way to reduce, reduce the traffic. So.
 I was sad the other one didn't pass and I'll be supporting this one as well, but I feel like I'm kind of in the minority here on that, but I hope that we can find us another solution as Will Dockery, who is our lone speaker, supported. So I don't know what that looks like, but if it means incentivizing the commercial development in those nodes,
 then maybe that's kind of how we need to tackle this. So I'm open to however, whatever it takes, so that we don't just create a big sprawl area with nothing, nowhere to go and hang out and socialize and run errands. Anybody else? We're on the third and final reading here. Any other comments? I have a comment, Mayor.
 One of the things I feel a little frustrated about, I have to confess, is sometimes when we talk about changing the rules, if we're talking about single family, there are a fair amount of people who think that we're trying to end single family. We think you're a bad person if you live in a single family house. I guess I'm a bad person. I live in one right in the middle of downtown, too, right where we need the most houses of anywhere in the city. Yeah.
 You know, I keep asking myself, what's going to happen if this passes for those property owners and those developers who specialize in single family structures? And it's not like they're up their projects. They're just going to find a way of meeting the planning commission's conditions, whether those are.
 having on-street parking or driveway standards or putting a little bit of multifamily out of the street and partnering with somebody to do that. And that seems to happen every time we look at a big piece. It just seems normal. And to me, this feels like a gently nudging the wheel towards different outcomes.
 It's certainly not, at least it's not my intention. I don't think it's anybody's intention, not the original sponsors or any of the council members to characterize single family structures as wrong. But it is a fact that they require more energy per household, more space, more pavement, more rooftop space.
 that's not bad in and of itself, but it's resource consumption. And it's our job to plan for what that means for the future. And every scientific, every group that takes a look at the facts concludes that cities need more of a mix. And right now we've heard several times, I mean,
 We love single family zoning in Fayetteville. More than 90% of the city is reserved for it. Even if this change goes through, more than 90% of the city is reserved for it. So it feels a little bit like maybe we're in, maybe about this, that it's easy to have some emotional reasoning about it. But the outcomes are there kind of plain as day.
 I'm worried every time we try to do something that makes mixed neighborhoods easier or more straightforward to design, we're so on the fence about it that we just won't do it. And I wonder if we're going to make progress in the way we need to on our comprehensive plan and our action plan. And I guess I'm growing more skeptical.
 And more and more, I'm becoming convinced that maybe we've taken the wrong approach from the beginning. Maybe we shouldn't be restricting how many households can be in a building like we do now. Maybe it shouldn't be about single-family zoning. Maybe it should be about single-structure zoning, and we should end single-family definitions as we know it. Maybe that's the next thing we need to try to do. Well, you know, my mind can be changed.
 But on this particular issue, I'm still kind of, I'm still leaning toward my original assumption that I don't want to take out, you know, single family, which I can think of all sorts of different types of single family that are much denser than what we have out there now that would be allowed. Mixed use is allowed. I'm not willing to add another layer of regulation on this.
 My mind can be changed, but I don't feel like you've made the argument to me that this has to be done at this time. And, you know, it was brought up that we've been waiting three years on this or it took three years to get to this. And if this was the end of the world three years ago, why wasn't it brought forward three years ago instead of now? And I'm just not sold that we need to make this change right now.
 So my mind can be changed. You just haven't changed it. I don't want to try and change your mind anymore, Council Member Bunch. I want to respect that. But I do feel it's important to acknowledge for at least myself and I think for anybody, we kind of learn as we go. And I think this might be one of the examples of that.
 I was certainly of the mindset that as long as we just got the rules right, the market would respond and do what's right. And I think I had more of an assumption then than I do now that the market is kind of a little bit less imperfect than I think today. Like I said, maybe I'm becoming more cynical as I see what gets built. That may be so. I don't know. But I feel like this is, you know, when we talk about
 What can be allowed in CS zoning without going to the planning commission? There's a lot of opportunity there that maybe it's not being utilized because, you know, we just, the developers aren't familiar with it enough or they haven't been, you know, encouraged enough to use that opportunity.
 but i don't really i i'm not in favor of adding a different level of regulation if we don't have to and i feel like that that with the cs zoning it gives a lot of opportunity there and so that's kind of where i'm resting on this i've kind of teetered back and forth a little bit but i've fallen back on my original assumption yeah the comments before we vote i think one of the reasons that
 This wasn't looked at as a lot of the land that was developed was the RSF4 and NC. And it was getting closer and closer to the CS. And so now the CS is going to start getting developed in the same pattern that the RSF4 and NC was developed. And then those services that the people out there could so use just aren't getting built. So that's one of the reasons it wasn't probably looked at three years ago. Anything else?
 Just a clarification, a yes vote, would the yes vote and the no votes support? No, yes vote would be forward. Yes vote would pass the ordinance. So it would change the permission for my single family home and a duplex and make it instead of a permitted use to a conditional use. So a yes vote passes the ordinance. Thank you.
 Okay, there's not any other comments. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? No. Teddy? Yes. Brogdon? Yes. Banks? No. Erd? No. Erdsberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Mayor, the way I count it, it's a 4-4 tie. Do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. So the ordinance fails. Okay, let's move along to number six. Okay.
 an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-027 located at 1673 and 1675 north orain street for approximately 0.30 acres from r.a residential agricultural to r.i 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre this was left on the first reading from two weeks ago so i would entertain a motion to go to the second week so move
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 And nor does the rezoning that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-027, located at 1673 and 1675 North Florine Street, approximately three-tenths of an acre from RA, residential agricultural, to RI-12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay. John? John?
 Thank you Mayor. I don't have any new information on this request from last week or from two weeks ago. I do know it was after midnight I think when I presented on it so I don't know if it would be beneficial for the commission for me or for the council for me to present again. I'd be happy to do so but don't want to presume. I do know that the applicant is able to attend tonight and Adriana Hermes is present and available. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 No. Okay. Adriana, can you unmute? Yes, no. Well, let's start with is there any questions from the council to the staff? And then we'll get back to the applicant if they come online. Mayor, I have a question. Jonathan, would you mind putting up your view of that residence?
 You know, it was really late the other night. But if I recall, there was I just want to know what the well, maybe I'll wait till you get something up there. So thank you so much. So it just seems how is the applicant actually going to deal with because I understand they want to put another another apartment behind there. Has there been discussion about access and that sort of thing?
 There has not at this point. It's been purely a rezoning request. Staff has not seen any detailed site plans or anything of that nature. Okay. And do you have another slide that overlays with the current zoning in that area that you could show us? I believe I do. Give me just one more, please.
 Sorry, I'll have to cheat here. I'm going to just pull up the zoning map on our online maps. Oh, that's okay. I just wanted to be re-familiarized because I think that that's the only zoning designation, proposed zoning designation in the neighborhood or in the immediate neighborhood. So just to orient the council, the intersection or interchange of Whittington and 49 is here. The Harps grocery store is here.
 If you head north on Florine, these light green properties are all zoned RA, and most of them are developed with duplexes, including the applicant's property right here. Okay, so that one really, so there's an RIU just to the south of there, but all the other ones around there are either, I guess that's RI-12, is that what the yellow color is? That is correct. Okay, and then these are RA.
 Okay. I was thinking... Now, there is currently a street being put through on the edge of that that is connecting... I think it's the one that's on the top of the map there, and it goes on through and has a connection all the way over through that area. I travel that way a lot, and I've noticed that it's
 it's going to be expansive and I can't tell the orientation on here exactly whereas but it might allow a better access to the back of this property. I believe if I may chime in on that Councilmember Kenyon I think the connection being made is to the south here between Steamboat and Dorothy Jean I don't know if any other staffs on that can confirm that. Well maybe that's it all I know is there's a great deal of action over there that
 makes a detour that's kind of inconvenient, but it's going to be great when it's finished, I'm sure. Okay, but I was just thinking maybe that would impact this development. Kind of not.
 So I guess I'll continue. Some of my concerns are that although the zoning looks similar, the size of that and the incompatibility with the other properties that are directly around it, and then I think we heard from many citizens two weeks ago, even though it was at midnight,
 maybe not many, at least one that I can remember. It was so late. Talking about the drainage problems that we've discussed in a different property, but kind of the same theme in that area. So I definitely have concerns about rezoning that property. So just so I can understand, three stories is a conditional use and two stories is permitted, is that correct? Yes, that is correct. Okay, and then the setbacks will...
 will, I'll see, will potentially not match the other houses, correct? That's difficult to assert in this area given the widely varying zoning districts. The houses that are zoned agriculturally still, yes, it'll be a very different setback. Those agricultural setbacks and our agricultural zoning are very large.
 They are, excuse me, 35 feet from the front property line and from the rear and 20 on the sides. Whereas the requested RIU zoning district has a build two zone, which you see on many of our residential districts from pulling the building, any new building or additions to buildings towards the street and five feet on the sides and 20 on the rear. Thank you.
 I don't know how many of my colleagues are familiar with this area. It might be helpful if we were to take a little tour of the neighborhood. And so I don't know if you all would be interested, but it might help with some of the scale and some of the, you know, the context of the neighborhood. So I'll just throw that out there. I would definitely be interested. Yeah.
 Okay, so I assume we're going to hold it. Where are we? We're on the second reading. So we'd hold it here and then come back in two weeks and you all want to do a tour. Is the applicant available to get online? I would like to hear from them. Yes, would the applicant like to speak before the council? She's trying, but she's not able to. Okay. Thank you.
 Well, the point is that we're probably not going to move it on, so it will be here two weeks, and maybe we can get whatever the issue is with the application if we get online. Well, so you all want to leave it here? Is that okay, unless there's anybody that has posted that? We're going to leave it right here on the second page. An arranged tour. All right, an arranged tour. All right, number seven.
 an ordinance to amend 157.03 annexation and zoning map amendments in chapter 157 notification and public hearings to clarify that hearings before the planning Commission are only required for private party petitions for annexations and amendments to the zoning map this was left on the first reading I will obtain a motion to go to the second reading so moved we have a second
 Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second three. Caravage, please call the roll. Daniel? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Froggen? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 In order to amend section 157.03, annexation and zoning map amendments in chapter 157 notification and public hearings to clarify the hearings before the planning commission are only required for private party petitions for annexations and amendments to the zoning map.
 Mr. Mayor, I brought this to the city council because it's always been my desire to maintain as much statutory power for the city council. Could I take a time out here, Kit? I made a little box on the last item. Okay, I'm sorry. I should have asked for public comment on the last item. If you would, everybody, let's just do a reset right quick. I apologize for that. Thanks, Susan, for bringing that to my attention. Is there anyone from the public that would like to address...
 Item B6, which is the one where we couldn't get the app. Chlorine. Yeah, the chlorine stream. Mr. Faney was there a moment ago. Here he is. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I apologize. You go ahead. Didn't you hear me now? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, I just want to thank you all for putting this off and coming out and looking at the neighborhood and taking that consideration. That means a lot. I had shoulder surgery, done rotator cuff on February the 8th, so I've been kind of laid up and whatnot trying to deal with all this. But I got out the other day and spoke with a few of the neighbors and whatnot.
 And I'm gonna speak for several of them that we appreciate you taking the time to come out and look at the situation because it can look like one thing on a black and white on a piece of paper, but when you come out here and you see the scale of it, as Ms. Turk referred to, I think you'll get why some of us are so passionate about this situation. So I just wanna thank you for taking that time and taking that consideration for this.
 you're welcome we also like to address this and if there's anything i can do as far as in the neighborhood um when you all want to come out um i've get supplied my information you're more than welcome to contact me you're very welcome and now is there anybody else i don't see anybody else okay
 All right, we will move on to the next item. Pit, you were second. Yes, I was saying that I've always attempted to maintain as much power for the city council and discretion for the city council as the state law allows. The state law does allow the city council to amend a zoning request or a zoning map just by a majority vote without having hearings or amendments.
 other notifications. It's not done very often, but sometimes you'll have a zoning request brought up here and the city council and you sometimes the applicant also will decide that they'd rather have it not exactly the way it was presented before. They'd like an amendment to it and therefore the city council should be able to do that. They should be able to amend that rezoning request and pass it right then and not have to send it back to the planning commission for a public hearing
 And that's what our procedure has been. But then I found this provision within the Unified Development Code, which was not clear, but I thought could in some ways conflict with that power the city council has. And that's why I drafted this ordinance to clarify that Section 157.03, that it only applies to normal private units.
 rezoning requests and not to a zoning request that city council is doing so that's why i brought it forward and so i did recommend you pass it to maintain your statutory power some questions do we have in the council on this okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak have five minute duration both in segments of three and two minutes don't engage any
 Any council member or anyone from the public stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. If you have a residence, we'll be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address from the public? Okay. No public comment. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is left on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council or what discussion do we have?
 If there's not any discussion, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okie dokie. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Go to the third. Yeah, go to the third. Third reading. Thank you. You're welcome. All right, we have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Tarrant?
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. In Ordinance of Amend, Section 157.03, Annexation and Zoning Map Amendments. In Chapter 157, Notification of Public Hearings, to clarify that hearings before the Planning Commission are only required for private party petitions for annexations and amendments to the zoning map. Okay. Any final comments from council? All right. Thanks, Chip. Bring this forward.
 All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Batch? Yes. Erd? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Now we're going to open up the public hearing.
 Let's see one resolution grant a certificate of public convenience necessity to the elected BLLC DBA Pedal Pub Federal for the operation of up to 10 pedal carriages in the city of federal. Chief, I believe you have this.
 GOOD EVENING, MAYOR, GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL. TONIGHT PEDAL PUB PHEATVILLE IS SEEKING THE FIRST CERTIFICATE FOR PEDAL CARRIAGE BUSINESS TO BE OPERATED IN PHEATVILLE. FOR THOSE THAT WEREN'T ON THE COUNCIL, LEGISLATION ADDING PEDAL CARRIAGES TO OUR ORDINANCE WAS PASSED IN APRIL OF 2020. SO IT WAS RIGHT AFTER THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY AND OUR PANDEMIC.
 The application for Pedal Club is included in your packets, which contains all of the information required by the ordinance to include financial status, liability insurance, fleet information, and also carriage storage as well.
 The owner, Amber Sinclair, is seeking a permit between two minimum carriages and 10 maximum carriages in the city of Fayetteville. And I believe Ms. Sinclair has joined us and she's here to present and answer any questions. So I'll heed my time to Ms. Sinclair. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Hi. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Yes, thank you so much for your time today. I'm so excited to finally be able to, you know, get in front of you guys and talk about what it is that I'm trying to bring into the city. I currently reside in Lowell, but I grew up in northwest Arkansas and lived in Fayetteville for almost 12 years. Yeah.
 I started on this adventure probably two years ago. So before the city council even saw anything, I had been working with Devon Howland
 and Blake Pennington and a couple other people within the city to try and get this started. And, you know, it started with changing the ordinances and adding pedal carriages to that. So any kind of questions or concerns that the city council has, I'm more than happy to address them. I think that, you know,
 Even if you're new to this idea, it's a very robust company and resources that I have. So I just appreciate the time and I'm ready to answer any concerns that you guys have. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the African-American chief?
 I have a question for the applicant. Okay. Ms. Sinclair, I want to applaud your entrepreneurial quest. I think it's a great innovative idea. My one question is why up to 10 pedal carriages? That seems like quite a bit. And I'm guessing that you haven't had one operational during the pandemic. Is that accurate?
 Correct. Yeah, there hasn't, we haven't had anything operational during the pandemic. I definitely wanted to wait until, you know, more people were, were
 vaccinated and you know the plan was uh you know going on the right path but I'm asking for 10 at this moment just so there is room for growth I will be starting with two because that's part of the um plan that I have with Petal Pub um but I'm asking for 10 just for you know room for growth uh how it normally works is you know when you start booking tours uh the the public you know
 it essentially drives my demand. So once we start off and start growing, I wanna be able to act fast in order to compensate what the public wants.
 Okay, thank you. Would there be any lesser number that you would be amenable to? It seems, you know, I'm kind of like a proof of concept person to begin with. And I think if your growth turned out the way you anticipate it to, that, you know,
 you know, the council would be open to expanding that. It just seems like starting off the bat with 10 is quite high. So those are just some of my thoughts.
 Right. Yeah, no, definitely. Of course. So that wouldn't be like 10 physically here right away, but that number is always negotiable because I'm more than willing to work with the city and the police department and transportation department to find the best needs that suit, you know, our, our area. So if you're not comfortable with having 10 right away, I'm definitely flexible on that. I just, I,
 In my mind, I like to have, you know, the, like I said before, the idea of growth in order to be able to transition quickly in order to compensate for, you know, the changes that, you know, happen in the future. Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minutes.
 duration break broke into segments of three and two minutes uh don't engage anyone from the public to any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized please unmute so we can hear you who would like to address this first in the public okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution uh what is the wishes council
 Mayor, I would like to move to amend the resolution to read providing up to six Petal Pub carriages rather than the ten. Okay.
 So the amendment is six pedal carriages instead of 10, basically. Correct? Correct. Do we have a second on that? Second. We have a motion and a second to do six instead of 10 pedal carriages. What discussion do we have on the amendment, on the council? I'll make a comment. It may not seem like it's a very good idea.
 a major amendment on its face, but I'm not gonna support it. I just don't think we need to review this if her business is successful. I think our agendas are long enough. Any other discussion? Okay, we have a motion and a second to do six instead of 10. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Bunch? No. Turk? Yes.
 Pittsburgh? No. There is? Yes. Jones? No. The amendment failed, so we're still on the original resolution. So we're back to the 10. We need a motion and a second on the original then. Here I move we approve the resolution. I second it. We have a motion and second to pass resolution. Any final comments from the council? OK. Here at which police call row.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, now let us go to new business.
 Number one, a resolution to support improvements to lake federal water quality and to create a healthy lake ecosystem. Teresa, I believe this is something that you brought forward. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I have so many pieces of paper tonight because we've had so many complex issues before us. Okay.
 I'm bringing this before the council because I think somehow we need to start cleaning up Lake Fayetteville. As our previous discussion showed, there are lots and lots of problems with the lake. It's near and dear to many people's hearts. We have a lot of recreational opportunities that are out there. We have the only rowing club in the area that uses Lake Fayetteville. We have a lot of fishing, obviously a lot of biking, a lot of trails. We have a lot of fishing, obviously a lot of biking, a lot of trails.
 And to allow the lake to degrade to the point that it is right now, I think is really remiss of us. So this resolution before you is the first attempt to start the process to improve the lake, to actually clean it up.
 provide some leadership, work with a lot of collaborators from environmental groups and other cities and the county to start our lake to recovering, to being healthy again. And so as we talked about, there's been harmful algal blooms for at least the last two or three years. Those are very toxic to our citizens, especially to dogs and immunocompromised people.
 people and other wildlife. And so we actually have quite a bit of scientific information from the U of A, from the Illinois River Watershed Partnership, from the water, from Sandy Formica's group, and from many others. So there's a plethora of information that can be built upon to start the improvement process.
 but what we really need is some leadership and a plan and so this resolution asked for um for funds to hire a competent um outside um contractor to actually start the planning and strategic design so in a nutshell that's what this resolution is okay happy to answer any questions yes what questions do we have from the council on the same thing
 I'd just like to thank TURK for bringing this forward. I mean even six months ago I kind of started asking people around like when are we going to be able to swim in Lake Fayetteville
 of course after hearing uh council members petty's uh statistic i don't know how i'm ready to swim just yet but uh we definitely need to make some changes and i think it's important that we'd be able to go and actually point at this this creek this tributary is is where most of the issues coming and then we can start actually looking at um
 where kind of blame needs to be placed and start making improvements. Now, I think I heard Terps, you said that there's money involved in this, but this is a resolution, right?
 This is a resolution, but it asks for a competent contractor to be hired and probably put out as an RFP. So there will be some money that has to be allocated in order for this to really fully take effect. We had discussion last time about what the cost estimate was, and I kind of threw out $200,000.
 I don't know if there's another number out there, but somewhere in that ballpark, it can't be done for free. So this is just to get the ball rolling. Okay. So I guess the PCD, not PCD, sorry. A ordinance would come back to us later. Okay, cool. Whatever the proper vehicle is. Yeah. Awesome. I support this. Thank you. Any other questions from council? I have a question.
 And I also wanted to thank you, Councilmember Turk. This has been something, restoring the quality of Lake Fayetteville, something that's been on my mind for a while. And we even applied for a grant from Arkansas Natural Resources Commission several years ago to try and...
 install a demonstration project, a treatment for the runoff from parking lots around Mall Avenue and Joyce downstream from the lake a number of years ago. But unfortunately, we weren't awarded that grant. We needed to do so much more than just treat the runoff of those parking lots.
 and that's what my question is about you mentioned in your action that this anticipates core cities is something that is really to me because just looking at the watershed maps a majority of the runoff that's entering the lake is not under jurisdiction and uh
 I would expect that if we were to hire somebody on our own, we'd get a report with a bunch of action. The ones right at the top would be find a way to coordinate with Springdale because we won't accomplish what we need to do with without them. And so I'm definitely going to vote for this tonight, but I would like to see even the study jointly funded with Springdale.
 from the beginning so that we know we have the partners involved to or implement those action steps. I don't know that, um,
 I don't know that I would withhold my support for funding if they weren't participating because I'm eager and I think it's so important. Maybe we have a role as a convener or as a counselor to bring other partners along. But if they came back right away with a hard no, never going to work with us, that would definitely change my opinion on the budgeting process.
 up front, you know, and whether or not we would actually be successful. So I would really like to encourage, whether it's you or whether it's staff, that we make a good faith concerted effort to partner with Springdale from the very beginning so that we can ensure some measure of success at the end. Mr. Mayor, could I make a comment? Sure.
 staff and and i met this morning um several staff the um alan pew and chris brown and connie edmiston um tim nyander we we were talking in general about the different work that's gone on over the years um and there were just lots of different folks who had data and reports and i know theresa one of the reports we were talking about was the clear creek study um
 And so there are a lot of findings already. What Steph and I were talking about was thinking about
 making recommendations to you all based on some of those findings and helping to prioritize and get some help. Sure, we'll have to cost it out, but get some help for analysis of some data that's already been acquired. Alan Pugh is on the line, and I think he has some information in general about our partnership with Springdale in the past, because we did partner up. We both spent some
 some funds on the Clear Creek Assessment. Alan, are you here? Can you talk about what we've done in the past with the strategic partners on these types of studies? Sure, and I guess I'll preface that with saying that my venture into water quality in Lake Fayetteville started about 10 years ago. I was in a different position then actually with the City of Springdale, so working with the Lake Fayetteville Watershed Partnership, so I know
 Springdale is concerned about water quality and Clear Creek specifically because that's the stem that impacts them the most. I think they are also concerned about water quality in Lake Fayetteville. Many of their residents are able to utilize Lake Fayetteville, especially with our trail systems being connected and ever more connected as we move along. But I say all that to say there have been issues.
 A lot of studies as Teresa indicated. She is probably privy to most of those, and most of them were done in an academic setting. But the gist of what I received from those was I think what we've already touched on is our major problems in Lake Fayetteville come from sediments and the phosphorus balance of those sediments. Although there are other issues, so I don't want to oversimplify it. But I think as it pertains to this conversation,
 that would be a fair statement. I've also sat in on some presentations from Dr. Thag Scott and Brian Haggard who talk about the majority of that sediment and phosphorus comes in and only one or two rain events per year. So it's really not the lesser rain events that are hurting us the most. It is those larger events that we're getting less frequently, although they may be more frequent than they were in the past.
 So then we began to analyze and say, okay, what does that mean? So we began to hone in pretty quickly on construction site runoff and stream bank erosion as our major sources of those sediments, which actually led to the partnership with WCRC and the city of Springdale. We split 50-50 the match for some grant dollars to the USDA with the city of Springdale to look at Clear Creek as a whole.
 And that report is available to you, but in essence, I'll share my screen. What you're looking at here and what WCRC was able to analyze for us were those priority stream banks where we are seeing excessive amounts of stream bank erosion. They also did look into, you know, just the
 The riparian areas and those sensitive areas that the council's already touched on tonight, you know, you've heard prairie mounds and swales talked about quite a bit. So you'll see all of those kind of consolidated on this mapping. You know, these are really identifying where those pollutants are coming from. And to Council Member Petty's point, you can see that these red dots are mostly outside of the city of Fayetteville.
 You know, they're either in the county as it pertains to Hilton Branch, which is down here. The piece of property that we annexed tonight is in this area as well.
 and Clear Creek and its tributaries to the north. So I do echo Council Member Petty's statement that we do need some support and some buy-in from other entities, City of Springdale and Washington County in particular. So we would be able to work with them. Illinois River Watershed Partnership
 has already reached out to both of us and are attempting to set up some initial meetings for that initial discussion to talk about this and other things. So that is certainly promising. You know given that I think it is important to kind of consolidate the information that we have today but I could see the focus of this study
 Maybe being more on implementation and I'd like to counsel's feedback on that before we get too much into the scope of work. You know, we sort of know what the issues are. Now, how do we deal with the sediment? And I think that's two pronged. I think it's short term and long term. You know, there were some discussions about
 Alan capping and other regions of the US tonight. And that is a discussion that we've had for late Fayetteville but we do understand it's not a permanent solution. You know, we need to deal with the amount of sediment coming in and then in some way deal with the legacy sediment that's already there.
 um i do really appreciate council uh taking this on uh and we we look forward to working on it and and partnering with these other entities uh and we're happy to answer any questions that you guys may have what questions do we have in the couch well alan you asked and i i for one and i don't i don't think i'm the only one um based on comments and the solution itself but um
 I'd be thrilled to get some implementation guidance, especially if we were receiving it jointly with another party, such as the city of Springdale. And when we've looked at it in the past, what we've concluded really is that we either have struck some massive infiltration areas at the top of the lake,
 And slash or you have to have some kind of program that actually repairs and controls the stream banks, and I wanted to talk just really briefly about that that second option because.
 You know, it might be kind of cheap to buy stream bank land out in the county or undevelopable stream bank land, even if it's in another city. And there's nothing that prevents us from owning and controlling important environmental assets like that. We've mentioned it real briefly in terms of Lake Sequoia dredging in the past and potentially buying stream banks in Washington County. And it...
 It's the kind of thing that I would expect and maybe before it gets turned back to us in an implementation work plan. And that's an excellent point. I know Council Member Turk did point to in her ordinance that 
 The studies that have been done, especially the Beaver Watershed District and their watershed management plan, and it does include some facets of controlling pieces of property that are unique and or critical to their water quality. So that's an excellent point. I'm glad you raise it.
 So maybe you all can see the gist of that was to get the ball rolling and really to build off of those studies and develop an implementation plan. And I do think it's really critical that Springdale and Washington County are definitely partners in this. But I would hope that if there's reluctance on their part, that Fayetteville would still continue to pursue cleaning up Lake Fayetteville. But getting those partners on board is very critical to this being successful.
 anything else any other questions from the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone for the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star nine on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us first
 Brooke Spencer. Go ahead.
 Hi there, good evening. My name is Brooke Spencer. I'm a resident of Rogers at 4413 West Meadow Oaks Drive. I'm also the president of the Rowing Club of Northwest Arkansas. If you don't know, our club's a U.S. rowing recognized club. We practice at the lake several days a week and compete nationally. We offer multiple types of programs to engage the community, from adult novice learn to row classes, to high school juniors practices, and even corporate team building activities.
 While we strive to keep our boats upright, the learning curve for a rower usually necessitates at least one flip into the water. We need to be able to safely practice flipping our boats. This is an essential part of learning to row that we currently can't do on Lake Fayetteville because of the poor water quality.
 Over the last few years, the water quality has continued to worsen. Last summer, when there were harmful algal blooms, we were forced to cancel practices and institute emergency policies to help rowers clean the water off their skin immediately should they flip.
 I've rowed my whole life, all over the country and in some really beautiful places. I have to tell you, the natural surroundings and the calm water at Lake Fayetteville make it one of the most pleasant places I have ever rowed. I've encouraged others from outside the region to visit and row with us, join us for a nice jaunt on the water. But it's an embarrassment that we have to warn them of the danger of falling in and the precautions they must take.
 We have grand plans for our rowing club to someday conduct events like regional regattas, training camps, and even learn to row workshops for the community. We dream of hosting people from colder regions to come to Northwest Arkansas when the weather's perfect. Have them stay in nearby hotels, eat at local restaurants, or even the food truck park that's at the lake.
 This region is really a hidden gem when it comes to outdoor recreation, so please don't let the water quality undermine one of the most beautiful rowing spots in the whole region. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Margaret Britton. Go ahead.
 This is Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue. I am on the board of the Lake Fayetteville Watershed Partnership and am here to represent the board's decision to support the resolution and to urge city council members to do the same.
 We believe that the lake is a jewel, one of those things that makes Fayetteville a wonderful place to live. As you know, the lake was created to serve as the city's water supply and now is our backup water supply. It was once swimmable, and the city allowed folks to use the lake for the swimming leg of triathlons. Now it is hyper eutrophic, which means too well fed, too many nutrients, particularly phosphorus.
 The phosphorus supports algal blooms that produce the toxin microcystin, which is dangerous to humans and can cause liver failure in dogs and other animals. Economically, Lake Fayetteville is an important tributary to the Illinois River, and our city has already been sued by the state of Oklahoma for levels of phosphorus too high to legally flow into Oklahoma. We
 We have made great strides in getting phosphorus out of our treated wastewater and we should be proud of that. Now it is time to attack the non-point source pollution that is still contributing to illegal phosphorus levels. Last year, a study paid for by Fayetteville, Springdale, and the federal government was completed by the Water Conservation Resource Center, which identified sensitive areas of the watershed and stream banks that needed rehabilitation.
 We know much of what we need to do. Now it's time to put a specific plan together to make it happen. If we don't act now, it will soon be too late to protect the watershed. The Lake Fayetteville Watershed Partnership is a small volunteer group with a small budget, but we will do everything that we can to support your efforts to restore the lake to the clean, healthy water that we know it can once again have. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair. Will Dockery. Go ahead.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. This is something we should definitely do as the head of the Parks and Recreation Board. I just want to remind you that there are definitely some things that are planned for Lake Fayetteville in the future, especially a walk and kind of a bridge over. And I know more people are definitely going to be involved in that.
 This is something that maybe when we talk about the upcoming, the update to the master plan for the parks, this could also be something that ends up getting talked about. So just keep all that in mind. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Colleen Gaston. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 Thank you. My name is Colleen Gaston. I live at 3270 North From Arch Road Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I just want to state my support for the proposed resolution. And more importantly, I want to express my gratitude to Council Member Turk and to the other members of the City Council for their stated commitments in support of improving the water quality of Lake Fayetteville.
 I'm happy to hear that they recognize the importance of making what comes out of this ordinance be not just a report that sits on a bookshelf, but that it actually is used for implementation of projects. And I think that if.
 All the data and information that's available is utilized that that should help somewhat reduce the cost of these types of reports or watershed plans, which can be very expensive. But a lot of the work has been done. Some of the work that's been done by the Illinois River Watershed Partnership in their plan can be incorporated in a more detailed way.
 for Lake Fayetteville. And one upside is if these reports are done according to federal guidelines, they will increase eligibility possibilities for federal funding. So again, thank you to all members of the city council for their support of this resolution. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Chair Lee Futron. Go ahead.
 Charlie, please unmute your phone or your computer. How's that? Good. Good. Okay. Charlie Futrell, 16535 Ranchero Road, Springdale. I'm a lifelong resident of Northwest Arkansas. Went to school at the university and I am a member of the rowing club, so I'm out at the lake on a regular basis and on the water. I also bicycle in Lake Federal Park.
 Lake Federal has been described as a jewel, and I think that that is an apt way to talk about it. And one of the things that I observe being out there most months of the year is that it draws a wide variety of people, young people, old people, people with children.
 It is just a joy to see the variety of people that are strolling and fishing and, and being part of the park, you know, and just enjoying it. It's, it's quite spectacular actually, you know, and it's someplace that draws people, I think from all over the area. I think that the council has to look at this very long term. If you look at cities across the country and say, well,
 I wonder how, you know, how did they preserve that park? You know, it's because some city planners and council members and building commission folks took on a vision to protect something like Lake Fedville and the park that it is. And that's what it's that type of foresight that's going to have to take place here.
 I don't, I'm not a biologist. You know, I've listened to some of the reports. So I'm not trying to make those kind of recommendations. But I do know that it takes protection, much in the same way that you take a city and you say, well, this is where our industrial district is, but you can't do that industrial work downtown Fedville. We're going to...
 That's going to have a different kind of residential or, you know, or a different type of prospects, you know, as we're going to be around the square in Fayetteville. The same thing has to happen here. And in this case, it's a broader area like addressing the Springdale and so on, you know, the upstream. So it's going to take some teeth to make this thing happen over time. And I want to encourage all of you to do that and to protect this for the city of Fayetteville and for northwest Arkansas. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Is this a resolution? Move we approve the resolution. Second. All right, we'll get a motion and a second pass resolution. All right, any kind of any final comments to the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thurston? Yes. Hurdsburg? Hurdsburg?
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Seventh. Seventh. One in the abstention, I suppose. Martin? We've got seven votes in favor, right? Yes. Okay. All right. Mayor, may I say a few comments?
 I just want to thank my council member colleagues for supporting this. I do think it's the first step in a long process, but thank you for taking the first step with me. I appreciate your support. Okay. Holly, do you wish to vote? Or for the record, if you had difficulties getting through?
 Okay, well, Mayor Jordan based on what I can see right now I don't see that she is listed in the panelist at this time. Okay, okay, but we'll just move on then. Okay, number two resolution authorized purchase of three Peterbilt refuse trucks.
 from tlg peterville at ford smith arkansas for the total amount of 1 million 27 766 pursuant to a sort well cooperative purchasing contract and to prove a budget adjustment uh sarah
 Yes, good evening, Mayor and Council. These items have passed at the Equipment Committee. These three trucks have all met the expectations of fleets,
 needs to be replaced as expected. And like I said, they passed at the equipment committee. Council Member Turk had requested photos of these types of trucks, which are now included in your packet. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. What questions do we have, Council Member?
 I have a comment. I just wanted to thank you, Sarah, for including those. Thank you very much. It helped me understand why they cost so much. Sure. I also spoke with my director, Terry Gulley, and Chris Brown, and we talked about possibly presenting to an agenda sometime soon on how we developed our point system and
 how we go over that for all of our vehicles and upcoming agenda for all the new council members. So we haven't done that in a couple of years. I think that would be very interesting. Thank you. Any other questions from council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration. We're opening the segments in three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public. If any council members stay on topic, no rude behavior, name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand as they would be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to be first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Thank you.
 I move to accept the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass resolution. Any final comments from the council? Caravans, please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Froggen. Yes. Bench. Bench. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Hertzberg. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Okay thank you all. Number three.
 An ordinance waived competitively into approved purchase of a Toyota forklift from Huggins Hall Equipment Company for fleet rental pool in the total amount of $37,734 plus collective taxes and freight charges. Whereas Unit 812, a Toyota forklift, has exceeded its life expectancy...
 And whereas Toyota is the only manufacturer with a system of active stability, which provides an additional level of safety for the operator and surrounding workers, and may only be purchased from the authorized local dealer, Hugg & Hull Equipment Company. Now therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical,
 and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of a Toyota forklift from Hogan Hall Equipment Company in the amount of $37,734 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Okay, sure.
 Yes, Mayor. This item, as Kit just read, this is the only item that we could find in this size of forklift that has this safety feature. Anytime this item gets unstable, either backwards and forwards or side to side, it automatically stabilizes so that it cannot be tipped over and damaged.
 In my opinion, I always look for any kind of safety features. We currently are replacing the same type of forklift. So we currently have a Toyota forklift and we really appreciate the safety feature. And this is an updated, more advanced version of that. So we definitely wanted to keep that safety feature for our operators and researching other forklifts.
 Toyota is the only one that has this. So that is why we are requesting this bid waiver. Okay. What questions do we have for council? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have a five-minute duration, both in segment of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first.
 press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? All right we'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes the council or what discussion would you like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Carriage please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Tartt? Yes. Hemsworth? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a purchase of a Toyota forklift from Huggins Hall Equipment Company for the fleet rental pool in the total amount of $37,734 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Is this an ordinance that's on the second reading?
 I move we spin the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Grogan. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Herzberg. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes.
 good thank you all in order to weigh competitive bidding and approve the purchase of a toyota forklift from huggins hall equipment company for the fleet rental pool in the total amount of 37 734 plus actual taxes and freight charges what final comments do we have in the council okay care which please call well opinion yes eddie yes scroggins yes yes turk yes herzberg
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to amend ordinance number 2740 to ensure that transportation customers are treated equally to customers of natural gas for the fees they pay to Black Hills Energy Kits.
 Whereas the city of Fayetteville, pursuant to its statutory authority granted by Chapter 200, Municipal Authority over Utilities, has for many decades granted the natural gas utility a franchise to operate in the city and charge a franchise fee for the sale of such gas within the city of
 The Fayetteville Board of Directors passed Ordinance Number 2663, renewing and granting Arkansas Western Gas and its successors a perpetual franchise to lay and maintain gas mains in the city right-of-way and general utility easements and otherwise operate in the city while charging a franchise fee based upon a percentage of its sales.
 And whereas on August 4th of 1981, the FALA Board of Directors passed Ordinance Number 2740, which amended Paragraph 7 of Ordinance 2663 by reducing the franchise fee to 3% for its sales to all customers except industrial customers whose franchise fee remained at 1%.
 And whereas the city was just informed that a new class of customers had occurred, which did not purchase gas from Black Hills Energy, but independently purchased their own natural gas from a third party and then paid Black Hills Energy to deliver or transport this gas to their premises using Black Hill Energy's natural gas distribution system. And whereas in order to treat transportation customers similar to consumers,
 The franchise fee needs to apply to these transportation customers. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Ordinance Number 2740, which amended Paragraph 7 of Ordinance Number 2663, by repealing Chapter of Paragraph 7 in its entirety and enacting a replacement Paragraph 7 as follows. During the perpetual life of this franchise.
 Black Hills Energy and any successor as a grantee of this franchise shall pay to the City of Fayetteville, grantor carry in, each year a franchise tax in an amount equal to 1% of its sales and transportation charges before taxes of natural gas sold or delivered to industrial customers within the City of Fayetteville,
 and 3% of its sales and transportation charges before taxes of natural gas sold or delivered to all non-industrial consumers within the city of Fayetteville. Okay, Paul.
 This is pretty straightforward. The municipality of the city of Fayetteville has the right to charge franchisees to utilities. Black Hills Energy supplies natural gas to customers. When this was written, as Kit has read,
 Basically what happened is they sell to customers for the use of that natural gas. Business practices change over time. We were informed that Black Hills also transports energy that they don't actually sell. They charge for the transportation of that energy over their lines, and therefore to treat all customers equally.
 we are changing the ordinance or requesting that the council change your events so that we can collect franchise fees for that particular business transaction, which is the transportation of natural gas through the use of those lines and not the sale of those lines. It should increase our revenue somewhat, but certainly,
 but this would make a level playing field for all users of those gas lines. And with that, I'll take any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior name and address and and federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized i'm usually can hear you who would like to address first from the public okay and we're bringing back to the council this is an ordinance it is on the first reading
 What's the wishes of the council? I'll suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Drogon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 an ordinance amend ordinance number 2740 to ensure that transportation customers are treated equally to customers of natural gas for the fees they pay to black hills energy and mayor i'd like to thank black hills energy for actually bringing this to our attention i had no idea that the
 customers did that where they got gas from a third party and then just use their net the black hills energy lines and so this makes it much more fair so now they're going to go ahead and pay for the transportation costs which are inherent in the money i pay for the natural gas company so i think it's only fair to do this okay we're on the second reading this is an ordinance what's the wishes the council remember we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Gertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 In Ordinance Amendment, Ordinance Number 2740, to ensure that transportation customers are treated equally to customers of natural gas for the fees they pay to Black Hills Energy. What final comments do we have in the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Bunch. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Zeres? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Let's go to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 20-028 located east of West Michael Drive and south of West Weddington Drive for approximately five acres from RA residential agricultural to RMF 18 residential multi-family 18 units per acre. Kip. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby changes the zone classification property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, residential agricultural, to RMF-18, residential multifamily, 18 units per acre. In section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. OK, John.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'll start off with a bit of an unusual slide that you guys are used to seeing, just to give a bit of perspective of where the property is, if you did not have a chance to visit it. This is in West Fayetteville. It's about two and a half miles west of Interstate 49 in Weddington. It is only about equidistant, however, between Interstate 49 and the westernmost extents of the city's western boundary.
 The property is on the south side of Weddington Drive and is somewhat oddly shaped. It's about a thousand feet long along Weddington Drive and about 200 feet in depth. It was annexed into the city in 1982, but has remained undeveloped. Some historical aerial imagery suggests that up until it kind of fell fallow, it was used for some agricultural uses later.
 The question at hand is an appeal to the Planning Commission's denial of the request to rezone the property from RA residential agricultural to RMF 18 residential multifamily 18 units per acre.
 In evaluating the request, staff included several considerations. Among these were the city's adopted long-range plans, where staff did have several mixed findings. On the one hand, the site does have access to streets, particularly Weddington Drive, a state highway.
 trails along Weddington, existing water and existing sewer. And the proposed RMF 18 zoning does allow a broad spectrum of residential housing that does speak to the intent of the future land use map designation of the property as a residential neighborhood area.
 On the other hand, the request does, from staff's perspective, perpetuate and intensify a monoculture of residential development in the immediate area. While RMF 18 zoning does allow everything from single family homes to multifamily dwellings and everything in between.
 Any development on this property will have extremely limited access to any services, with the nearest being on Double Springs at the intersection of Weddington and Double Springs, about 1,000 feet or so to the west. Development of the property could result additionally in buildings that are out of scale and character with the surrounding development. Whether you have a chance to visit the property or just look at the aerial imagery, you see that it is a
 a mix of fairly low density residential development some of which predates annexation and also some some legacy or heritage agricultural uses uh this
 The proposal for just a single use of the property, a residential use of the property, limits the potential for creating the complete neighborhoods the city has striven to create around the city where people can have access to a connected street grid and the ability to access services and retail by means other than vehicle if possible.
 And that does factor into other concerns about traffic and congestion. While Weddington Drive is a state highway and it's a fully improved state highway with capacity at this location for additional vehicular traffic or vehicular trips every day, that story is not quite the same as you continue to head east.
 that traffic continues to compound again and again as additional developments that don't have ready access to services begin to funnel all their vehicle trips onto the same corridor. So all that said, staff was not able to find in favor of the applicant's recommendation and we did recommend denial.
 While there was no comment at the Planning Commission meeting itself, there was a petition that was received by staff and submitted to the Planning Commission and onto the council, signed by several dozen residents who were opposed to the request. Their concerns included the potential for additional traffic, negative drainage impacts, the capacity of the water and sewer system to handle any more development,
 Damages to property values, adverse impacts on those agricultural uses that do remain in the area. And there was mention of some of the frustrations that they've been dealing with in the area with the significant amount of construction that has been occurring and how that's had an adverse impact on them over the last several years as areas have built out.
 So again, staff does recommend denial of the request. At the January 25th meeting, the item was denied by a vote of 7 to 1.
 The applicant did indicate at the meeting that they would entertain a possibility of amending their rezoning request to something that would be more palatable or to which staff or the commission would be more amenable. But a vote to table the item to afford the applicant, that opportunity failed. And again, the planning commission vote to deny carried forward. And that said, I am available for any questions. And I believe we have time.
 Justin or Blake Jorgensen in attendance, possibly both of them as the applicants for this item. Thank you. Okay, would the applicants like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, mayor and council. Can you guys hear me? Yep. Great, I hope everyone is doing well and thank you for your time this evening. Jonathan, thank you for that explanation. We appreciate it. And yes, our original request was the RMF18.
 And through further conversation with the planning staff and the developers, we would like to change that request to an R-I-U with some N-S-L at the corner. It sounds like that's what they could support in our conversations with them. But we're also open to questions.
 to many ideas. The developers on this have numerous different patterns that they can develop this. And, you know, we went to Planning Commission and asked, you know, really all we're wanting is a conversation on a lot of these things. And didn't get much of that at Planning Commission and did request to table the item, as Mr. Kirk was explaining, and got denied that request. So that's the reason for the appeal. So, yeah.
 Tonight we're looking for more conversation of what people, you know, everyone thinks could go there and can change the request as necessary. And we appreciate your time and glad to answer any questions. Thank you. I've got a question for staff. Since they've changed what they're asking for since their appeal, this could be denied and they could just bring it back to Planning Commission. Is that correct?
 That is correct. The Unified Development Code does prohibit bringing an exact same request back before the Commission within a year unless there's a reason to justify it being heard again. But yes, procedurally this could be brought back before the Planning Commission as a completely revised request within a year. So I think as our average meeting time is starting to approach five, six, seven hours, we're seeing too many of these appeals.
 Hopefully we can take care of this, deny it, and send it back to, they can come back to planning commission and then have the conversation. I think developers need to, we've got a city plan 2040 and staff does a pretty good job of following it. And they should have something that staff is okay with and go through that route.
 So that's what I hope we do today. We don't have to talk about this in two weeks and then in two weeks just deny the appeal and they can talk to Planning Commission again. I have a question. Another option would be in this to the applicants request and vote on that right here at Herrick Council. Either way, we're going to be dealing with this in meetings.
 potentially fewer if we deal with it directly other than sending it back to commission for it to come back to us again. But I'm curious about a practical matter. Do we have an exhibit that shows where staff's recommendation is to be implemented into right away? I think you make up a good point and you really have the city council has two options the way I look at it. Well, more than that, but the two major options would be what, what, uh,
 Council Member Sloan Scroggin suggested it just refer it back to the Planning Commission, but the other option would be to amend it pursuant to what the Advocate now requests. However, we've got to have exhibits to do that. We've got to have a map, we've got to have legal descriptions, and so if we're going to go in that direction, that's what the Advocate will need to bring us so that we can actually have a proper ordinance.
 Commissioner Petty we have not received that exhibit. Okay, well it sounds like we can either deny this or wait two weeks for all that to be pulled together. But it doesn't seem like there's really much to talk about other than those two things unless I'm missing something, which maybe I am. Can we just hold it rather than deny it? Is that what we can do while they get their stuff together?
 Yeah, you would either send it back to the Planning Commission, refer it back, not deny it, or else you would leave it on this reading and let them get the proper exhibits together. And then we can draft the proper ordinance for you all to consider if you want to amend to that. Right. Well, it sounds like to me they didn't have much conversation on this at the Planning Commission. So I would like to hold it and see what they can pull together in two weeks.
 This will be the place to have a conversation. I kind of feel like we should send it back and go through the proper channels. I'd really like to have the planning commission
 review the entire packet and as well as staff before it comes back to city council. So I prefer that we go back to make them go back through the whole process so that there's plenty of information and we're not circumventing some of the usual steps that we take.
 So there, if you want to refer it back to the Planning Commission, there needs to be a motion to refer it back to the Planning Commission for further study. And then we'll see it when the Planning Commission acts on it one way or the other. If you don't want to do that, you vote against that motion and just leave it here and try to resolve it next week or at the next meeting when we have proper exhibits. So those are your two options. So send it back to the Planning Commission. Someone needs to make a motion to do that.
 I move that we send this back to the Planning Commission. Second. Okay, so we have a motion to send it just basically back to Planning Commission. Okay, that's it. Okay. Do you all want to have any discussion on that or we just want to get ready to vote? I hope you're ready to vote. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? No. Eddy? Scroggins? Yes. Budd? Yes.
 TURK? YES. ARTSBURG? NO. GUTIERREZ? NO. THAT MOTION FAILED. OKAY. SO WE'LL DEAL WITH IT RIGHT HERE. SO NOW YOUR NEXT OPTION IS TO, I GUESS, THEY ASKED TO AMEND TO RIU AND NSL. DID I GET THAT CORRECT?
 That's correct, but why don't we... But we don't have an exhibit to look at how it all lays out. So if you just let it sit right here for two weeks, they'll have time to put their exhibit together and then they'll show what they want to change. And I'll draft the appropriate ordinance in the meantime. Sounds like a plan. Right.
 I move that we table this for two weeks. No, no, we just let it sit right here, Holly, because it'll come back here automatically in two weeks. I do have one question for staff. If we go to RAU, is that just the same issue that we had on RUPL, that they want housing and they're going to get housing and something that allows multiple things? But then, I mean, it's the same request other than it's form-based, correct?
 That's certainly a possibility. Both the RAU and NSL zoning districts allow similar residential uses. The big difference being that neighborhood services allows non-residential uses.
 There are tools to address that. I don't know if those are ones that the council could ask for from an applicant as far as restricting or limiting residential uses in certain parts of the request. We cannot ask. Correct. And I think to the applicant's point, I think their hope was that they would receive some degree of direction on something the council could support on this matter before they went back and drew an exhibit and legal descriptions.
 Yeah, I think they're just, it's the same thing with the new name. But I guess we'll talk about that in two weeks. I'd like to maybe say one more thing. Legal descriptions in a simple map are not hard to pull together. We could have taken an action. Next time this happens, maybe we could anticipate a little bit more starting the discussion with a proposal that's actionable and not just a request for an informal talk.
 Maybe that's my frustration a little bit with our agenda management coming out, but I think this is one example where it's clear what we could do next time. Okay, so we leave it right here. Okay, let's move along then to number six, a resolution to award bid number 2121, an authorized contract with Flintville LLC in the amount of,
 $2,374,520 for the construction of fire station number 8 toward bid number 21-22 and to authorize contract with Flintco LLC in the amount of $2,374,520.
 $510,225 for the construction of fire station 9 to approve project tendency in the amount of $150,000 for each project and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 firefighting facilities improvements bond project. Uh, Wade. Thank you, Mayor. I'll be brief. Approval of these contracts will kick off two more of our bond construction projects.
 We received seven qualified submissions with Flint Co. offering lowest bid on both the projects. Fire Station 8 is located on our Public Safety Campus. Fire Station 9 is located on South School, just south of Cato Springs Road. The scope of the project is for the construction of two prototype stations with approximately 6,700 square feet.
 which includes two offices, a kitchen, day room, six bedrooms, laundry room, apparatus bays, equipment storage, workout room, and all associated site work. Both of these stations are designed to meet LEED Silver certifications. Anticipated start is in early April with a 10-month completion schedule.
 And with that, I'll answer any questions. OK, Chief, you want to add anything? I just want to thank you and the council for supporting this and the bond and the citizens for passing it. And I'm happy to answer any questions as well. OK, do we have any questions from the council on this? OK, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration, broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star and i on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you uh who would like to address this first from the public okay so now i'll bring it back to the council council this is a resolution and we approved the resolution
 second we have a motion a second to pass resolution all right any final comments from the council i think it's pretty awesome though they're going for lead silver so i'll thank you to everyone who's working toward that that's awesome very awesome projects all right um care would you please call the road jimmy yes eddie yes scroggins yes batch yes kirk yes
 herzberg yes good areas yes jones yes all right thank you all very much um what announcements do we have got one just one announcement mayor um it's time for everybody to start their spring cleaning the bulky waste
 drop off centers will be open each Saturday and yeah, each Saturday in April. And for the first two Saturdays, we will also have the Boston Mountain Solid Waste Household Hazardous Waste Mobile Trailer.
 So we've been without their services for a while. They actually moved their facility or closed the facility in Fayetteville. They'll be bringing a mobile trailer in for those first two Saturdays for your hazardous waste. All the details will be on our website. So please look up how you can participate in those cleanups. That's all, Mayor. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? All right, you all. Thank you very much. We're adjourned.