I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of March the 7th, 2017. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God.
 indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business we have tonight under announcements, proclamations, and recognitions, we have the 2016 fourth quarter financial report from Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm reporting on the fourth quarter of 2016. 2016 was a very good year financially for the city of Fayetteville.
 General fund actually had a $3 million surplus. $2 million of that was because of additional revenue, $1.2 million in sales tax, about $500,000 extra in building permits. From a balance sheet perspective, that puts our unadjusted reserves at about $19 million, 60-day reserves, $7 million.
 Reappropriations we have, which weren't funded as of 2016, carried over in the 17 budget, I should say not expended, was about 2.1 million.
 If we adopt the pay plan, that would be another $1.2 million, unless we get sufficient revenue sources to fund that during the 2017 period. That would give us a balance of about $8.3 million at the end of 2017, if in fact all estimates are met. From the street fund,
 Street fund showed a loss of about $50,000, but that could be expected because of the capital expenditures we had. We were committed on this at the salt storage building. Willow Bend is moving forward, things of that nature. We'll still have a solid fund balance of about $2.8, $2.9 million by the end of the year, or we did have at the end of 2016.
 One thing we do have to remember is the revenues are not expanding in the street fund as much as we would like to see. They've been pretty flat, so we're going to have to look at expenditures and the revenues in the future. However, like I said, we still got a pretty good fund balance in the street fund at this point in time. As far as parking is concerned, we had a surplus of about $360,000 in the parking fund.
 That means we can certainly cover our bond coverage, which is 1.25% of debt service, still have $5.5 million worth of bonds outstanding for the construction of the Spring Street deck.
 Fund balance will be adjusted at about $178,000, which should be sufficient. The one thing we do want to look at there is coming down the road, we are going to have capital expenditures moving forward.
 Now the Parks Development Fund, which is one penny of HMR taxes, and that goes to parks, parks maintenance. It's also where we have paid or funded a great deal of the regional park, showed a loss of $4.8 million, but that's because of the regional park expenditures in 2016, which certainly were...
 accumulated and expected at that point in time. We're going to have a fund balance of about $870,000 in that particular fund.
 which is right about what I'd like to see. I'd like to see about a million in there for ongoing expenditures. But remember, any funds we get in there, we're going to allocate primarily to the regional park. Certainly, we're going to look at neighborhood parks, but that's where we're going to look at funding as much as possible, the regional park. So we did well and their revenues were up almost 7 percent in HMR taxes last year.
 Sales tax capital, we had a surplus of $400,000, but then again we have a large amount of rebudgets or reappropriations coming forward. We'll end the year there with a balance between $500,000 to $750,000 in the sales tax capital fund.
 Water and sewer, we had actually a surplus of $1.6 million last year, but remember how many capital projects we have outstanding in this particular fund. We have rebudgets of capital expenditures of $21 million coming into the 2017 budget.
 So all in all, we're looking at a fund balance unadjusted in the $11 million range. However, all of the adjustments on the balance sheet for the equity section of the enterprise funds have not yet been made.
 uh... i asked that the financial statements be forwarded to the uh... city council so you have those however i do want to caution you that we haven't made all adjusting errors specially in the equity sections for the enterprise funds so if there are questions please call me and i'll be happy to uh... to answer that once we have all adjustments uh...
 in place, I will in fact advise you of that. Recycling and trash, we had a deficit. Of course that's because of capital expansion we had going on. We'll have an unadjusted fund balance between three and three and a half million dollars at the end of 2016 once all adjustments are made.
 We did have a small surplus in the airport fund. We're going to have about $200,000 to $250,000 and fund balance is my estimate at the end of the year. So all in all,
 I'd say it was a good year. I don't see any red flags. Certainly we need to keep an eye on the airport and airport operations going forward. Capital right now is funded by federal grants, and we have to keep a close eye on that. They have been doing a good job in obtaining grants for capital expenditures as needed.
 Again the street fund had a pretty strong showing this year But that's something we're going to have to look at in the future because revenue isn't expanding in the street fund the general fund is
 We had a good surplus in the general fund this year. Remember, those amounts, those revenue amounts, which were over expectations, have already been folded into the 2017 budget. If you remember, the general fund 2017 budget is up about $1.8 million. So we do have additional expenditures in there. Like I said, most of our
 Revenue increases have been incorporated in that. We'll talk a little more about the pay plan and why I think there's a chance we can expect a little more revenue, especially from sales tax, but that'll come later in the program. Other than that, like I said, it was a good year. I'll be happy to answer any questions. We're still putting adjusting entries in, by the way. John. Thank you, Paul, for that financial report. I think for people listening who aren't CPAs,
 we should do some explaining explanations about what exactly a reserve is, what's the purpose of a reserve, what does it mean, do we have $19 million cash sitting there, or exactly what is a reserve? Talk to us about that. Okay. Actually, in our business, John, when we look in the governmental environment,
 We have restrictions for capital and non-liquid assets. So when we talk about reserves in the general fund of $19 million, most of that is in fact in cash. So it is in cash and is available. It depends on the particular fund. When we look at someone like the, a fund like water and sewer or trash and recycling.
 Some of that reserve is in the form of accounts receivable, which is considered liquid, but a large amount of that is in cash too.
 A little difference between us and a lot of business enterprises is when we talk about fund balance or we talk about retained earnings, more of it is in a liquid form normally in government than would be in business. I'm glad you brought that up. We use the term fund balance a lot. That in fact contains more than just reserves. Some of that is restricted. The purpose for reserves, of course, is to give...
 to give the entity flexibility. You can't long-term fund everything through reserves.
 You have reserves to help you through good and bad times. You're going to have surpluses, you're going to have deficits over time. So you use these reserves to fill in. It's just like an individual who would have a savings account that's going to be used as a safety net. That's why we look to reserves for that. The other purpose we can use reserves for if we have sufficient reserves, we can make investments or do capital expenditures that are one time,
 to benefit the entity rather than piecemealing it over a period. So the reserves generally give stability, flexibility going forward to the entity. Is that sufficient, John, what you're looking for? Good explanation. I think we should write a novel on fund balance and reserves. People would just buy it up, I'm sure.
 Is there a legal requirement? Do we have a legal requirement to keep a minimum balance in our reserve accounts? We have, as far as a legal requirement, it's a requirement that was established by the city council. And it was established the policy is to have 60 days' worth of...
 revenues in case we have some kind of Disruption in revenues to keep the city rolling obviously if the city has a catastrophe We not only have to keep rolling because
 Our services are required by the rest of the citizens. We have a larger demand So it's even more important that we're able to continue servicing the public during a During a catastrophe or some type of event also, we do have some reserves that we keep over for a
 WHEN I SAY A CATASTROPHE, IT'S TWO DIFFERENT ONES. IN THE GENERAL FUND, IT'S THERE. THAT'S 60 DAYS WORTH OF REVENUE IN CASE THE REVENUE IS CUT OFF. WE DO HAVE AN ADDITIONAL $3 MILLION OVER IN ANOTHER FUND IN CASE SOMETHING LIKE AN ICE STORM CAME ALONG. WHEN THE ICE STORM CAME ALONG, JOHN, WE HAD TO PRE-FUND THE MAJORITY OF THAT WITH $2.8 MILLION OUT OF THAT FOR THE CLEANUP. NOW, FORTUNATELY,
 We went through the federal requirements. We did recoup much of that. But for that period of time, we had to cash flow that to get all of the cleanup done.
 So that's essentially why we keep resources. And fund balance is exactly, in government, what it says. If you take assets, what you own, subtract liabilities, which you owe people, whatever's left is fund balance.
 And I think what you're getting at, John, debt fund balance is not all spendable because they may be assets that you can't sell such as roads, such as buildings, etc.
 What is our legal required amount of reserves in the general fund? Do you know what that limit is? This year? That was set by the council, 60 days, and that's $7 million currently. So right now we're required to have seven, and we have 19 at the end of December? Yes.
 You have 19, and again, we have to make a couple subtractions from it. Sure. $2 million for carryovers, and depending on the play plan, some of that would be used if, in fact, we don't get revenue to support that. Thank you, Paul. Sure. Any other questions? Thank you. Any other questions? All right. Thank you, Paul. All right. Next order of business is consent. Number one, approval of the February 21, 2017 City Council Meeting Minutes. Okay.
 Number two resolution authorized the purchase of a Dodge Ram 2500 regular cab long bed truck from Lewis Ford at Fedbel Arkansas and the amount of twenty one thousand four hundred forty three dollars pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by fleet operations
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Ford C-Max hybrid from Lewis Ford of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $21,542 per cent to a state procurement contract for use by fleet operations. Number four, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Toro Sand Pro 5040 from Professional Turf Products LP of Tulsa, Oklahoma in the amount of $23,420.
 $423.95 pursuant to a national intergovernmental purchasing alliance contract, 125.35 for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17-25 and approve a construction contract with Arkansas Roofing Company Conway, incorporated for the corporate hanger roof rehabilitation project at Drakefield in the amount of $109,841 with a project contingency in the amount of $12,659.10, contingent upon receipt of a 9010 grant from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with the exclusive flight LLC DBA afterglow aircraft services for the hangar located at 4580 South School Avenue in the amount of $2,400 per month. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $5,545 representing donations to the Parks and Recreation Department in 2016. Number six.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve a 10-month contract with James and Jewel Morrow with a one-year automatic renewal for 2018 to provide for operation of the concession stands at Kessler Mountain Regional Park Soccer Complex, Gary Hampton Softball Complex, Lake Federal Softball Complex, and Wilson Park Pool.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $10,777, representing donation revenue to animal services in November and December 2016. Number 10, a resolution to support a budget adjustment of $12,000 for a replacement of our current canine officer and for tuition for the new canine officer and its handler.
 Number 11, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $10,000 recognizing revenue from the court automation fund for upgrades to the video arraignment equipment used by the federal district court.
 12. A resolution to approve the final contract extension with InstaForm Technologies, Inc. and to approve an authorization of up to $330,000 for sewer rehabilitation projects in 2017 using cured-in-place sanitary sewer linings.
 Number 13, a resolution to approve Amendment 3 to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $56,500 for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2017. Number 14, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize Federal Aid and Recreational Trails Program funds for the Gully Park Trail improvements.
 A resolution to express the willingness of the City of Fevella to utilize Federal-aid Transportation Alternatives Program funds and authorize application for a 20% local match grant to the Arkansas Transportation Alternatives Program in the amount of up to $500,000 for the construction of the shared-use trail on the Weddington Drive bridge across Interstate 10.
 49 I will entertain a motion to accept Sarah I mean we accept the consent agenda is read Adele I second that motion we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda is read Saundra would you please call the roll? Yes, yes Yes Yes, yes Yes under unfinished business number one an ordinance to amend a
 110-02 telecommunication franchises of the City Code to include and incorporated references to competing local exchange carriers and any other telecommunications providers desiring to use city street rights of way.
 I will entertain a motion to go to the next item. Chair Greg Musil Well, Mr. Mayor, as I inform the City Council at the agenda meeting, I'm going to ask that you table this indefinitely. I'm continuing conversations with some of the major telecom companies and also their
 possible bills that have been submitted at the legislature that might affect any kind of negotiations we might have. So if you would table this indefinitely, and I'll bring it back when I've got either some agreement or some other news about what the new legislation might be. Chair Greg Musil Okay. Allen. Chair Greg Musil Motion to table indefinitely. Chair Greg Musil Mark. Chair Greg Musil I second that. Chair Greg Musil Okay. Chair Greg Musil Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 March. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bench. Yes. Letere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Under new business number one, an ordinance to waive requirements to form a competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with Granicus Incorporated. Any amount of $42,765.06 for 2017 with four possible annual renewals with a 3% cost increase each year. Kip.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville has utilized Granicus Incorporated since 2012 to provide software to put together the City Council agendas, provide video streaming and playback services for these City Council meetings, and provide voting management services for City Council meetings.
 And where, because significant expenditures of City staff time, effort, and expense have been required to master the Granite software and systems, it is not feasible nor economical to change suppliers for these tasks at this time. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 The City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding, and approves a contract with Granicus Incorporated in the amount of $42,765.06 for managed legislative and voting services and video streaming services for 2017, and
 with four possible annual renewals with a 3% cost increase each year. Okay, Doug. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, good evening. As Mr. Williams explained, this is an updated contract that includes some additions, upgrades, updates, new services that we've acquired over the years with Granicus, things such as new digital encoding, the vote cast system that you work with as well.
 Mainly we're asking just for the the bid waiver since we're currently using these Systems wish to continue them for the period of automatic renewals for four years. There is a three percent per year increase We negotiated that down from five percent by the way, so I'm happy to entertain any questions over this what questions do we have for Doug on this? Okay, any public comment on this?
 Yes. Long. Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive and approve a one year contract with Granicus Incorporated in the amount of $42,765.06 for 2017 with four with a 3% cost increase. Clear. I move we suspend the rules. I second that motion. We have a motion to second go to the. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Dunn. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with Granicus Incorporated in the amount of $42,765.06 for 2017 with four possible annual renewals with a 3% cost increase each year. Do we have any final comments from the council? Al? I just wanted to ask a quick question. I know there had been some kinks with the program initially when it was rolled out. Have they agreed to work with us and come in house to service?
 Are you referring to like the vote cast system? Yes. Our IT department, which is working with Granicus quite a bit on the vote cast system to have those bugs worked out. And I think...
 They're very agreeable to work with us, and I think the IT department can speak to that as well, that they've been able to work out some of the bugs that you've experienced. Okay, but within this contract, we expect them to be able to continue working with us and not charging us additional amounts? No, there won't be any additional charges for that. Okay, any other final comments? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LaFleur? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. OK, number two, an ordinance is waived that requires formal competitive bidding and approved cost share agreement.
 with JMSH LLC for the installation of water and sewer remains along a portion of North Assembly Drive north of East Maple Street with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Pebble not to exceed $31,800 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,360 for a total of $38,160. Kip?
 Whereas city staff recommends that we utilize JMSH LLC's engineer and construction team to enlarge our water main for about 160 feet and for about 275 feet of a sewer main that JMSH LLC needs to build in a smaller dimension for its proposed development. And whereas anticipated growth in this area will need a larger dimensional water and sewer mains which will be an improvement to our water and sewer systems capacities.
 And whereas section 51.112 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that quote, the city shall pay the excess material costs of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve the subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system, unquote. And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost,
 by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the larger line for the developer's project. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the State of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby determines that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with JMSH-LLC for the installation of water and sewer mains along a portion of North Assembly Drive north of East Maple Street.
 with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $31,800 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $6,360 for a total of $38,160.
 So this is another cost share that we have for the infill areas of town and this cost share agreements to install approximately 160 feet of water line and 275 feet of sewer line near the intersection of Assembly Drive and Maple Street and it would be a 50-50 split in the cost estimated a total of $63,600 and constructing the sewer main will allow development of this property as well as provide future capacity for the area
 We're asking for a bid waiver because the city did not select the contractor, the owner did, and we want to use them to enlarge the pipes for us beyond what is needed for this property. Okay. Thank you, Mark. What questions do we have on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Okay. Justin? Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 March, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with JMSH LLC for the installation of water and sewer mains along a portion of North Assembly Drive north of East Maple Street.
 with an estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $31,800 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,360 for a total of $38,160. All right. I move that we go to the third and final reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. All right.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Fetch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with JMSH LLC for the installation of water and sewer mains along a portion of North Assembly Drive north of East Maple Street With the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed thirty one thousand eight hundred dollars and to approve a project contingency in the amount of six thousand three hundred and sixty dollars for a total of thirty eight thousand one hundred and sixty dollars Any final comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kingin? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kinnett? Yes. Funch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, number three. An ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for the stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring.
 at various locations in the City of Fayetteville in 2017 with the amount paid by the City not to exceed $61,721 kept. Whereas since 1998, the City of Fayetteville has participated in a joint funding agreement with the United States Geological Survey for the operation and maintenance of urban stream gauging stations to record data concerning rainfall and runoff.
 And whereas in 2015 the city modified its agreement with USGS to begin monitoring major pollutants at Town Branch and Mud Creek, and the city will continue this monitoring to provide more accurate information regarding pollutants leaving the city at these points.
 And whereas the USGS, which purchased and installed monitoring equipment at no cost to the City, provides these services at a cost much lower than the City could receive from any other provider. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a joint funding agreement, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance and made a part hereof between the City of Fayetteville and the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville
 with an amount paid by the city of fable not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred and twenty one dollars yes yes thank you mayor this is uh will be the third year for a collection of water quality samples on town branch and mud creek as as the ordinance states this is an agreement with the u.s geological survey they provided this service for many years water quantity um
 Data collection and in the past three years they've added the water quality portion the cost of this to the city $66,721 it's shared equally between Project in the engineering division and the water and sewer department both departments benefit from the from the data collected I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have Chris on this any public comment on this? I
 Okay, okay, bring it back to the council mark. I move we go to the second reading Sarah second we have a motion second to go to the second reading Sondra would you please call the roll? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville in 2017 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed $61,721. Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Second.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the US Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville in 2017 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred and twenty one dollars Is there any final comments from the council on this? I?
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tinnin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, number four. In order to amend 160.02 official zoning map of the Unified Development Code to adopt a digital format for the city federal's official zoning map. Kip?
 Whereas section one six zero point oh two of the unified development code currently requires the city to maintain a hard copy of the Official zoning map which currently consists of several hundred pages of maps that must be reprinted each time a zoning change is approved by the City Council
 And whereas the City Council, the City's Geographical Information System Division, GIS, already maintains a digital copy of the zoning map and adopting that format as the City's official zoning map will reduce the amount of City's resources and cost in maintaining the printed map and will allow zoning changes to be reflected on the official map more quickly. Now therefore it being ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas Section 1
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby repeal Section 160.02 Official Zoning Map of the City of Fayetteville and enact a replacement Section 160.02 as follows, quote, Section 160.02 Official Zoning Map, the City is hereby divided into zones or districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, which together with all explanatory matter thereon is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter.
 The official zoning map consists of a map and text. The City of Fayetteville shall maintain the map at a convenient location designated by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk.
 Although copies of the map or portions thereof may be distributed to the public in paper or digital form, the official zoning map consists of a digital copy as shown on the official City of Fayetteville website as kept by the City of Fayetteville Geographic Information System Division and designated as such and as amended by ordinance adopted by the City Council and signed by the Mayor.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a request to adopt a new version of our zoning map, official zoning map. Back in 1965 we adopted one of the original versions. I still have a copy of that in my office. It's a crayon map essentially literally utilizing crayon colors to change the zoning when an ordinance was passed and the zoning of a property changed.
 Over time, we've updated that map and in 2002 or 2003, we went through an extensive process of reviewing all of the zoning ordinances from 1965 forward to 2003 to ensure that all the parcels were zoned correctly and we had ordinances to back those up.
 And at that time the council adopted a zoning map that we have the official zoning map that we have in place today What that consists of are these essentially a grid over the city and each one of those grids have a number that number has a
 a plat page map as we call it there are several hundred that we house currently in the planning division so if you want an official copy of the zoning map you come to the planning division and get that copy the city clerk's office also has a zoning map on file
 What this request would be is to move into hopefully the 21st or 20th and 21st century and get into a digital age. These maps are already created digitally, so that's the source of the data. What we would like to do is allow for citizens to depend upon our GIS system, which creates these maps and be able to access them online.
 online. We currently do that already so just as a demonstration I want to show you how accessible our zoning maps are online currently. So this is our Fayetteville website on the far left. These icons, GIS maps is one of those options. You can simply scroll to the bottom alphabetically zoning map is listed there. If this were the
 Official zoning map this big disclaimer probably wouldn't be here, but it's not so currently we utilize this As an unofficial zoning map housing the zoning of the city. This is very useful. It has much more data contained within the zoning map than The plat page maps on file at the city So for instance you can zoom right into your parcel if you know your address At home without coming down to the city planning office, although we're happy to see you. I
 You can click on your parcel, your address, and know exactly what your zoning is. You can also zoom to the structure, add aerial photography, under the show related records, there's a lot more data there as well. This information also tells you when the property was zoned, the ordinance number, all of those types of things that don't appear currently on our official zoning map.
 so our request is simply to make the digital map our official zoning map state law also requires cities to keep an official copy on file with the city clerk so approximately twice a year we would print out a full-size version fold that and put it in the clerk's office to comply with that ordinance and we can always provide that the other benefit to this is it saves us and taxpayers time and money in order every time you all pass the zoning ordinance at city council
 We have to update these, print new ones, have the mayor sign, again, replace those. So that would save some time and money. And then lastly, these are updated much more quickly than we can get to those paper maps. So almost immediately once the ordinance is in effect, GIS updates this map and it's readily available. So we're wholeheartedly recommending this change to our official zoning map. The Planning Commission also recommended it in favor. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this?
 All right. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance amend section 160.02 official zoning map of the unified development code to adopt a digital format for the City of Fayetteville's official zoning map. Okay. Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, and ordinance demand section 160 o2 official zoning map of the unified development code to adopt a digital format for the city of fables official zoning map
 And I'd like to say, Mayor, I want to thank Jeremy Pate and our planning department for this smart, cost-effective upgrade that we're doing. Mayor Weill Great job. It was. Any other comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Inman? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. Number five, will resolution approve the updated compensation philosophy to accept the Johansson Group classification compensation and benefits...
 Study report and adopt the financial recommendations of the mayor and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 1 million 700,000 $300 to implement the 2017 compensation plan Well, you have this well, there's actually two parts to this once is to approve the plan and two is the mayor's financial recommendations of Implementation which are two very very different things and
 We have your answer in here. We'll make a few comments on the plan and the study. Then I will come back and we'll talk about finances.
 Good to be here mayor and council members the study is a comprehensive study it involves the classification That's looking internally at the jobs for the city and evaluating those positions using a compensation compensable factors rating systems or evaluating the positions and bringing all the job descriptions current and
 Then we go externally to the market, and we're evaluating with 22 regional cities, which is consistent with what the council's done in the past with evaluating positions since 2006. And then once that data is all brought together, then we make recommendations on a compensation structure for the merit employees, and then also a step pay plan for police and fire.
 when that's all accomplished then the next step is to make recommendations and that's based on what the city can afford to accomplish when it comes to the merit program and also the step pay plan in addition to this you also are approving the compensation philosophy for the city which you've had but it's been updated revised to be a little bit more current with today thank you okay
 Well just because we have a study doesn't mean we can afford to implement it so let's talk about the mayor's plan for implementation When we looked at the study and we calculated what it would take to fully implement that study It would take in a general fund roughly 2.2 million dollars this year that two million two million two point two is
 This year would become over $3 million next year that would have to be incorporated into the operating budget. Lionel's charge to me was to look at what we felt we could afford in 2017 based on potential revenue sources. So in other words, the plan is what the plan has been in the past, that we look at what could happen, what potentially we feel revenue can increase,
 cash flow that by reserves or surpluses to the point that revenue catches up with that. So that's been the basic plan presented to the council before, and this is a continuation of that.
 So his charge to me was look at it, see what we thought we could afford this year. We've discussed this many times. We talk about finances every day actually. As I looked at it and I looked at the revenue estimates that I had made for the 2017 budget, I went back and reviewed and if you remember each and every month I come forward with sales tax results. I felt that at the time that we projected what we would get in sales tax,
 to fund the 2017 budget would not be as high as what it ended up. In other words, since the third quarter of 2015 had been so high, I thought the last quarter of 2016 would be less. Therefore, what I based the budget on actually came out to less than 2%.
 Now if I go back and we look at the last five years, last five years for Fayetteville's been very, very good. We've averaged 4.7% increases in sales tax. Now I'm not forecasting that, but it's potential and it's not out of the possibility. Like I said, I wouldn't forecast that at this point in time, but it's possible that we could hit that again. That's the last five years. If I go back 10 years,
 Ten years we're looking at the sales tax increases with 2.4%. Go back 20 years, we're looking at sales tax increases yearly of about 3.6%. So that's where we are. I don't have a crystal ball, none of us do. But if in fact sales taxes continue at the rapid rate they are now,
 We could expect to get another roughly $1.2 million this year into the general fund. You may ask why do I concentrate on sales tax? Sales tax is $26 million a year to the general fund. That's 60 percent of the general fund. There are other sources, quite a few of them. But the next highest one we drop down and we look at franchise fees. Franchise fees are about $5.7 million. They've been flat as a pancake.
 We can look at property taxes. They're $3.3 million and they could conceivably go up another 5% per year. Other than that, sooner or later they would be rolled back. We do get money from alcohol permits and licensing. That's in the $900,000 range.
 So overriding revenue we have to look at is in sales tax. That's why we look at that each and every year. I want to make a couple of points. I did a presentation, I thought an expanded one, at our last agenda session. So I'm not going to bore you with going through it again, but I want to make a couple of points.
 Mayor's position is fund what we can this year, look at it next year, see if we can fund more of the plan. This year, 1.2 million would be the implementation of about 25% of what would be necessary for implementation of the plan. As we look at revenue, and remember these are all going to compound.
 Once you approve payroll expenditures, they automatically become part of that operating base. So that means they're going to be part of the 2018 budget. Will no longer be $1.2 million, will be $1.6 million, which we will have to face funding that year.
 if we commit to funding this fully, each year that's going to be expanding. That's why, as you remember, our ongoing expenses are going to increase rapidly because these compound each and every time. Now, if I look at sales tax and made a projection of what it would take,
 to implement it in four years. My estimate was it would take between five and six percent sales tax increases compounded over that period of time to get the full implementation of roughly $6.6 million. Remember, we would be implementing this plan plus salary increases.
 So we would have two of these together and they keep expanding over time. That's why the mayor and I feel that it is not fair or honest
 to say that we think that we can fully fund this plan. That's not being forthright to the council, the citizens, nor their employees. Because if we don't feel we could fund this fully, we don't think it's fair to indicate them that we can. The only other avenue available to the council would be a property tax increase. The mayor does not support that.
 That can be discussed at some point in time. But right now the revenue looks like we will be able to support that implementation of 25% of the plan this year. We don't know if we will be able to keep that going next year. It depends on what our revenue sources are. At that point in time next year we look at it again. If we can implement more of the pay plan, we will. Certainly we will implement also increases in addition to that.
 Now this provides roughly 4% for merit employees. Remember, we have a number of merit employees who will be under the minimum of the plan. This would put them up to that. And an average of 6% in public safety at this point in time. But I think that's about all I have to say about the plan, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. The thing is, remember, if we go into...
 surpluses or reserves, use that once. You can't use that in multiple years. Once you use it, it is gone. Again, I will be happy to answer questions. Joe? Well, Paul and Mr. Mayor, let me first off by saying I really appreciate financial prudence. I'm not for spending money we don't have, and that's important.
 We have to recognize that going forward, if we grant 100% of these raises this year, next year they'll be bigger, the year after that they'll be bigger. But I want to be clear about what we're talking about. What we're talking about is we're underpaying all of our employees, and that's something I don't think any of us like here on the council. No matter what our political stripe, we want to pay fair compensation for a fair day's work for everybody.
 particularly when it comes to public safety. Our firemen, our police officers, they're risking their lives every day to keep me and my wife and my children safe while we sleep. I tell Tim Nyander all the time, Hey Tim, I got up this morning and turned on my faucet, guess what happened? He says, What? And I say, Water came out. I take it so for granted, but there's a water staff working all night keeping the water lines in repair, keeping the pumps going, keeping whatever it is they do.
 so that when I get up in the morning, I flip on my faucet, water comes out. Let's not take it for granted. I'd like to see we as a city council show some leadership and put together a strategy, not just leave it to the administration, but take the bull by the horns ourselves. We have a – this sounds like a humorous suggestion. Why don't we get six CPAs, three from Rogers, three from Springdale? They won't have a dog in this fight. They'll be completely objective.
 And they can look at the finances, they look at the level of compensation, and they can decide. But if we do that, we're giving up control. I know we don't like to give up control. But somehow we need to get somebody to look at the finances more than just those of us who spend the money. Because we're not objective. We have a dog in the fight. We like money. We like to spend money. It's kind of a neat thing to do.
 But if we could get somebody on a committee, on a group of people, that can look at our finances, look at our compensation level, and say, let's pay people a fair wage for what they're doing. Maybe we can put a fireman on it. Maybe we can put a policeman on it. Maybe we can put a city councilman on it, someone representing the administration. And together we can come to a consensus going forward
 I don't want to leave it just hanging like, well, we'll look at it next year. If we can do better, we'll do better. Let's have a plan. Let's have a concrete strategy to make those things happen. I'm sure we all agree, again, regardless of your political strife, we all agree that we should be paying our employees a fair wage. I mean, those of us who are conservative, those of us who are liberal, it's not a conservative-liberal issue, it's a fairness issue.
 and we need to have a concrete strategy to get there. Will you join me in this effort? Thank you. Okay, so your suggestion is to put a committee up together, which would delay paying the workers until whenever we get a decision made on what we're going to pay. Well, somebody needs to be looking at it on a continual basis. It's what I tell small business all the time. Your sales is the lifeblood of your business. You need to have it continual, systematic, and done every day.
 Maybe our compensation. If we don't have our employees, Mayor, we don't have a city. I don't disagree with you, Mayor. Right. John, the mayor would give them all of it if I could afford it. Right. But I've got so much coming in and so much going out, and I've got to keep it between the road ditches. And when I've got a finance director who tells me after 35 years of experience, Mayor, right now you can't do this plan unless you want to raise taxes. Right.
 Now, that discussion will be had this fall because you all will be looking at property taxes this September. I'm trying to meet a payroll by the first of April. I understand. Right? Paul, is that right? That's correct. Okay.
 Okay, so we can take as long as you want to. Well, we don't want to take any longer, Mayor, but I don't think it would take, I mean, I think we can pass this tonight to give 25% raises, but that's just one-fourth of where we need to be. We need to recognize that. And I don't disagree with you. This is the starting point, and this fall you can have all the discussions you want to about the pay plan, what you want to implement next year. Sure. But right now, this is what I've got to work with. Am I wrong, or Paul, or...
 And I don't want to hold people up from getting paid in the first of April. So I thought if we paid 25% now, then discussions can be had this fall with whatever you want to do. I'm good with that. Well, we're in agreement. We want to pay the employees. We want to pay them a fair wage. Let's do that. I'm sorry, John. All I'll say is this in response. We can have all the meetings and we can have all the committees, but it all depends on what those revenue sources are going to be.
 Don't have a crystal ball to forecast that the council doesn't have crystal ball to forecast it It's going to depend on how those revenue sources come in that's going to determine What we can and cannot afford so that would be my response And this time next year
 We don't have the money to pay anybody, and we have to cut services, and we have to cut people. I've got to live with that decision. I agree. I agree. And I started off my little spiel by saying I appreciate financial prudence, and I think that's financially prudent to do that. I'm not saying we should fund 100% today. I'm just saying we need to have a path.
 Right now your path is 25 percent and this fall I assume we would be discussing payroll again. I'm going to vote in favor of this proposal, Mayor, because it's a step in the right direction. I'm just trying to do the best I know how to do here with what I got to work with. And I'm not in disagreement with you entirely like you may think I am. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Well, you know. Thank you, Mayor.
 I just have a question while I collect my thoughts about the immediate impacts to recruitment efforts. So I know that we recruit a lot of these positions from inside the region. And so if we vote on this tonight, where will that ‑‑ where will we end up for these positions, whether it's hourly for MARIT or the uniformed employees or our director level positions relative to the rest of Northwest Arkansas?
 That's an AHR or human resource question. So with the 25% implement, let me provide that we're doing 100% with the MERIT program. So when we're talking about 25%, that's 25% implementation for the fire and police variance to the market.
 So with the MERIT, we're doing 100%, and that represents getting quite a few people to the minimum in the schedule. If we were to look at that on a regional basis, there's only about a 3% difference between the region and the Arkansas, eight cities that we compared in the study for MERIT.
 For police and fire, the difference is about 10%. When you go from the regional averages to the eight cities that we compare with Arkansas,
 So the important part of this is that the 25% implementation gets us really close to the fire and police average for the eight cities that we compared with. We would be about 3.5% to 4% behind the average for police and fire with the 25% implementation.
 And that's compared to the eight cities of Arkansas or the north? The eight cities of Arkansas. So that's northwest Arkansas, so Springdale, Rogers, and Bentonville, Fort Smith, Conway, North Little Rock, and Jonesboro. Okay. I've got a follow-up before I do. I want to summarize this in my words to make sure I understood you exactly right. 100% for the merit is what's being proposed, and that puts us roughly on par with Arkansas or slightly better.
 That's correct. And then with the uniform, 25% of the uniform recommendations, that we're still 3 or 4% behind Arkansas. That's correct. Okay. So my follow-up question.
 First off, I'll say I hope we keep that in mind in future discussions as a benchmark of what we should be looking to accomplish with the next round. And then my follow-up question is when we talk about the merit employees, what is, are
 Are there differences, is the delta different when we're looking at employees who are paid closer to the lower range of what we pay employees versus employees that are in more managerial or director level positions that might be recruited from a wider area? Sure. That's a good point. So when we look at the overall variance on the merit side and we look at the hourly employees that are in the, what we call tier one.
 That's really where the largest amount of variance, when we look either both regionally and locally, compared to all the positions that are on the merit schedule. And that's where the bulk of the 8% or 8.5, almost 8.6% that we're behind, and then that drops about 3% when you go with the Arkansas only.
 So the professional technical group, which is the tier two group, they're actually about 3% ahead of market when we look at actual pay compared to the market. And then the executive group, which is the tier three, it's about three quarters of a percent behind market. So when we look at that whole group as a whole, it's the hourly group that's the furthest behind the market. And that's really where the bulk of the adjustments are going to be made when we look at the people under minimum
 to get to the minimum of the range structure. The majority of the adjustments that will be made that are outside of Merrick are in that group, in the Tier 1 group, hourly employees. Okay, one more follow-up. When you talked about the Tier 2 and 3,
 you the words you used were well I don't remember exactly but it seemed like you were talking about the current pay for those two groups is your what's the answer if I were to ask the same question about the maximum pay for those ranges as far as where do we compare within the to the market yes yeah so when we look at
 when we look at the variance on actual pay and then and we're building the pay structure we're using that actual as a way to determine how we're doing pay structure so when we apply those adjustments to the to all three tiers on the merit side we're about 10 percent structure to structure variance so the 2013 current pay plan pay structure minimum midpoint max
 market compared to the 2017 one we're proposing is about a 10% separation for all those tiers between the the 2013 current in the 2017 market so that overall we're about 10% behind on the merit and that's true whether we're talking about actual pay or maximum pay that's correct okay because it's across the board thank you who else okay
 All right, let's start with public comment. Who wants to be first? Hello, I'm Jimmy with the firefighters. How are y'all doing? Thank you for your time. I sent most of you a packet either through email or dropped it off over the last two weeks to discuss this. As Paul mentioned, it's 100% for the civilian employees. We refer to them as civilian, and it's 25% for fire and police. I had a question for Paul that he mentioned something earlier. Paul, when you mentioned that it...
 A total implementation this year would be $2.2 million. That would be for 100% fire and police and the same thing that you're doing for the civilian employees, is that correct? Correct. Would the $3.4 million that you said in 2018, would that be against 20... 3.1, okay. Would that be against 2016 numbers or against 2017 numbers? Well, I'm trying to figure out if you're showing payroll is growing again,
 But in 2018, or is it growing from 2016 numbers, which would only be? Okay. Essentially, if we implemented it 100%, okay, if we were January 1, the cost would be $3.1 billion.
 million because we're implementing it in April, the cost would be roughly 73 percent of that, which would come down to 2.2. Joe Mohorovic Okay, that would be 2.2. But the difference between the two years would actually just be $900,000. Is that correct? David M. That would be the additional increase, right.
 i'm good but now remember that's going to compound i understand it's going to be this i just want to make a clarification there for me um as you presented that in the packet that i sent each one of the council members
 We as firefighters, we review different things. We're not financial analysts at no means. We do believe that the city doesn't need to increase the tax base or the tax rate for the citizens to implement this. We believe that the citizens have paid a sufficient amount of taxes in their millage and in their sales tax. We believe that they have accomplished that desire in that gap. In my history with the fire department, I've been here for 22 years. During that time period, we've done seven...
 roughly pay studies. This will be the first time that there's been no completion of the process forecast. Um, in that time period, we've either, um, taking the money from the reserve. We've paused it and implemented it over two years. Um, and those things. Um, so that this will be a surprise with the information that Paul gave about the past five years and the growth in our sales tax and the growth in our cities. We see the growth in the building in the different permits.
 It was no surprise to us that the salary survey came back and said that police officers and firemen were double digit behind in pay. That was not a surprise to us in that. So it was kind of odd that it was not forecast in.
 prior to today. That is a repetitive incident that has happened. Each year these studies come back every four years. We wait four years to do these studies and they come back and they're either close to double-digit or they're over double-digit. Some of the police officers and patrolmen's and the battalion chiefs rank and ours are closer to 20% behind in pay, in areas of their pay. So that that that is a deficiency.
 All along, we've always came back here, and it's always been a dip into the reserve. I understand Paul's philosophy of not dipping into the reserve. That reserve has actually grown in that chart that I gave you since 2013. It appears to have grown, as we've pulled money out of it, by 12.5% since 2013. I don't know that the taxpayer hasn't paid the appropriate amount of taxes to cover this.
 One of the things that I will share with you that we discovered as this came forward, we run a very efficient fire department here in the city of Fayetteville. We have a class two rating. We charge our citizens, if you wanted to bring it down, our payroll against the number of citizens, $136 a head in this city. The regional average is $159.
 We're well below what we're spending for fire protection and we're providing a high quality of service to these citizens. And that's on the shoulders of those firemen and the administrative staff of this department that provides that service. I think that we're working at a very high efficiency rate and I think that our people deserve those things. At this point, it appears that we're not seeking new funding for this mechanism of paying the employees.
 Mr. Latour mentioned a committee and you talked about pausing it. I think the civilian employees need their pay I think that the firefighters and the police officers that need this 25% But I think that we need to sit down and make a plan and make a priority In this because we're just drifting further and further behind. We keep coming back every time for
 Four years later, the study shows that we're behind. Four years later, we're not forecasting it. We're not doing anything in the gap to do that. I ask each of you to fully implement what's been recommended to you because this is exactly what the mayor said. These people need this money. The cost of living in this city has gone up. The cost of housing has gone up in the past year. All these people need these things. What I would ask this council to do
 is make a motion tonight to make this a priority to build a committee to look at this and come back to you have the administrative staff come back with a plan in august before september when you're looking at the taxes to find a path to fully fund the firemen and the policemen in this city i'm a citizen of this city my family lives here we spend our money here these guys work hard
 the patrolmen we work hand in hand with them and I just think that if I can ask any of you if you want to do something for firemen and police build that committee make this a priority and let's get something done in August that shows a plan have them come back with two plans two different options two different
 Something that you can vote on to give these people a plan I think I have a few of my members here If they if you want them all to walk up here and say that they want you to do this and make a plan Stand up raise your hand. Yes, what you think needs to happen here? That's what these people think. This is the employees They want a plan. We've got a plan for streets. We got a plan for the water department We got a plan for the trash department. We don't have a plan to pay these people. We're right. We're waiting It came out in the meetings
 This $1.2 million is the leftover money from last year. That's what it is, the leftover money. So that's what we're getting is the leftover. We got all these different projects that go on and we get the leftovers of the sales tax. That's what happens. We've got to make a plan. I've been here 22 years, we've never had a plan. Twenty-two years, no plan at all. If we can do it, out of the reserves we'll do it and then we'll build it like what Paul said.
 I understand what you're trying to accomplish with building things in this city, but you can't leave it on those guys there to burden the cost to give you the extra cash to build these things. You're shorting their family. So the bottom line is you're proposing a committee to be put together, a pay committee, correct? Yes, sir. With certain representatives on that committee? Yes. All right. Thank you for your time. You got any questions? I don't think you'll need a motion. I think I can put something together for you.
 Fair enough. Fair enough. Thank you for your time. Right now I'd like to get this passed and then we will look at that okay. My name is Scott Odell. I am a detective here in Fayetteville. I'm not an eloquent speaker. I've never in my 50 years stood before a body of politicians and spoke. So I wrote something and if you'll allow me I'd like to read it.
 Until January of 2017, I was the Fayetteville Police Department FOP president. As such, I worked with Mayor Jordan and served as the head of labor side of the labor management team within the police department. During that time, I believe that the mayor and the city council worked well with the police department. I would like to express my opinion about the implementation of the pay study. We all know that...
 from 2007 to 2009 our nation experienced a recession whatever you want to call it that's what it was during that time the city employees i believe went about 10 years without a raise i may be wrong but i think we got a seven cent raise at one point or something um
 There also was a hiring freeze. Was it six years, eight years? Three, about. It was much more than that.
 I've been here 10 years and until last year, before last, I think I got a seven cent raise. Well, what I remember in 2009, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, the step raise was already implemented before we came in. I mean, when I came into office, it was already implemented. Anybody remember that? They were implemented at the start of the year. I put a higher in freeze and then nobody got raises until 2010.
 I know it was after 2012. Well, hang on. He said- But anyways, I'll agree with you there. Okay. Okay. Okay. I don't know how long the hiring freeze lasted, but I do know that for 10 years, the police department did do with 121 police officers or less. Set aside the hiring freeze, it took 10 years for us to hire 122 officers.
 During those same 10 years, the population rose from approximately 64,000 to 80,000. The university saw a very sharp rise in enrollment. There are numerous apartment complexes now here in the city that are off campus that are filled. And I mean, they're built for students and we take care of those areas. Still again, that was with the same amount of police officers.
 I know that during this time the mayor and the city council was working so that we didn't have furloughs, we didn't lose people, and I think most of the people in our departments understood that. We didn't want the guy who just got hired six months ago to lose his job. The police department was asked, as well as other departments, to look at ways to save the city money. Our shifts were changed from a 10-hour shift to a 12-hour shift. This might not seem like a big deal from the outside,
 But the reality is there were a lot of senior officers with 15, 20, 25 years plus that had their lives turned upside down. The reality was there were a lot of senior officers that continued to work and did not complain other than to each other. I don't know if any of you all had received any of those complaints. I'm sure the mayor knew about them, but we didn't get on Facebook. We didn't complain at all. We came to work every day and we did our job.
 The 12-hour shift was implemented in large part to save the city money and accommodate the hiring freeze. We were also told to trade out worked hours that would otherwise be overtime in order to save the city money. We did it very efficiently and we were forced to do that to save the city money. A person who is getting ready to retire potentially loses thousands of dollars because he or she is not allowed to claim the overtime that would help their overall retirement pay.
 An example of this would be when we worked Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, a patrolman is forced to trade out an entire shift of the time that he would normally work to come and work on Dixon Street during those four or five days. So he loses out on potentially ten hours overtime just for those two weeks.
 We're also required to work the majority of the football games. We have more football games here now, the stadium's larger than it's ever been. And again, we did that with the same amount of officers. At the same time, we were saving money for the city. The police department averaged roughly 23,500 hours of overtime, and has since cut that to an average of 13,400 hours.
 This saved the city roughly $300,000 a year, and this was to the detriment of the police officers. And that continues to this day. I don't come to you today complaining about my job. I truly love what I do to help this community. But instead, I ask that you look at the sacrifices these employees have made and continue to make an effort to save the city money. The city employees represent the city well and are a large part of the reason people consider this city in the top place to live and work in the United States.
 My fellow officers and I, along with Fayetteville firefighters, routinely place the needs of the community above their own. I would hope that you recognize the sacrifices made and vote to fully fund the raises instead of waiting for a four-year implementation. I would at least hope there is a middle ground. And again, during the time I served as the FOP president, the mayor and I had talks about this.
 pay study. It wasn't any surprise that it was coming up, but there was never any mention of how to pay for something. It was that, I hope we have the money. I'm seeing that we know what the projection was. I don't understand why that conversation hasn't been made. So, I come before you just as someone who works for this department, it's
 I don't want to get emotional, but it's tough to stand here and feel like we are getting the brunt of a Policy that doesn't allow us to get paid what we should be getting paid You can look at any other thing you want to but when money is is spent on projects in the city that That require taking money from the fund and we don't get paid to us. That's that's kind of a Hit so any questions? I?
 thank you well who else mayor jordan at peter thomas in ward three um i'm like the loneliest citizen in fayetteville tonight i think but i i'm have problems both with the methodology and the result of this report and i'd like to address them both and i know it's a total compensation philosophy i want to talk about that too preliminarily though because what this gentleman just said is that the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
 I wear the thin blue line bracelet. Georgia and I both wear it. And there are many personal reasons for that. The first human being I ever spoke to who was a voice coming over the phone from Fayetteville was a Fayetteville police detective, Dave Williams. He's retired now. And his was the first hand I ever shook in this town, and that's part of the reason why I live here. So you can find where he's retired to and blame him.
 In terms of methodology, I continue to object to these consultation contracts and here's why. I think the city is spending now a couple of million dollars on these contracts. We went through this last year. I had an objection to a different one. These are good for government employees. I worked in the federal government for years. Government employees love consultant contracts for a variety of reasons. One, because they don't have to do the work.
 Secondly, they don't have to pay for it. I do. I'm the taxpayer. I'm the person whose money you all will be spending, whatever you decide to do. I and my fellow citizens who aren't here. The government employee doesn't have to do the work. I know this. I've been there. I've watched it. I've been on both sides. If there's a bad result, the government employee who hired the consultant has plausible deniability. He could just blame it on the consultant who goofed it up.
 And if there's a good result, the government employee can take credit for the consulting contract that worked out well. There are other things that you need to think about carefully in terms of this. One is they have an aura of expertise, and that's no offense to Mr. Johanson, but coincidentally this is another family-owned consulting company that was started by his father. He has it with his brother. Secondly, they have, and
 As a lawyer, we know that we love to call experts on any issue in a case. If we can get an expert, the jury's always going to be bedazzled by the expert. So they have this aura of expertise. Secondly, they have an aura of impartiality. And third, they have an aura of objectivity, which may or may not be true. But let's look at the hard numbers, not just aura.
 And they were paid. They were paid almost $120,000, or will be, for their five-year involvement in this study. They get, well, $47,000 up front, and then they get another $22,500 over the next five years. Plus, they sold the city some software that's going to cost us $49,200 over five years. This must be really good, better than Excel software.
 So Mr. Johansen's group got $120,000 to come up with this report, and they don't have to pay for what happens. Also, the methodology of these reports, they have 22 cities, eight in Arkansas, two in Kansas, seven in Missouri, and five in Oklahoma.
 I don't know if those are comparable. I don't know if they market their services to any of those other cities I don't know if this is just some spiral where on a five-year cycle They can run around and say well, that's the average now that's been established And so everybody's constantly lifting everybody up with raises. I don't know if that's how it works I would like to see two things that this City Council does is one view it kind of as a zero based budgeting and
 And secondly, look at the long-term effects, which we've all been through before with the LOPFI discussion last year, and we looked at some of the liabilities that are horrendous that could result from this.
 And also the future is uncertain and that's been pointed out by Mr. Becker, that was pointed out in the materials. The future is not always certain. When I was researching this, I did stumble on something from years ago where the mayor and some of the senior officials capped their pay at $80,000.
 because after 2009, the economy turned down so badly that the city was hurting. I lost 40% of my retirement accounts, along with my dad, in that same downturn. I wasn't smart enough to get out. So money matters, and the future is not certain, and I would encourage the city to be cautious, not just follow some lemming approach with what other police departments may or may not be doing, or fire departments, or city governments, but to look...
 at what you really need to do now to provide the services, and then what the future might be. And you've discussed this. I'm not going to repeat some statements that have already been made. All right, total compensation philosophy. How much does this look at other benefits like retirement? I saw very little about that.
 If I remember correctly, police officers and fire department who serve 30 years get like a 98% retirement for the rest of their lives. And it is on the LOPFI website that pay
 It's based on their 36 consecutive months of their highest pay during the last 10 years of their work. It doesn't have to be the last three years, it's the highest three years during the last 10 years. And pay, amazingly, is defined as recurring remuneration. So they managed to take a three-letter word and turn it into two 21-letter words with eight syllables. But what does it mean? It includes overtime.
 If they can pump up their pay, like for a chief, say from $100,000 to $122,000 a year, and do that three years consecutively, they're going to retire at $120,000 a year for the rest of their lives.
 Is that factored into the pay they get now? Nobody's denying it. I understand that they risk their lives today. That's why we wear this. We saw what happened in Texas. I saw what happened in New York, where I grew up, where police are being assassinated and firemen are being shot. We understand that. And even if there's no bullets involved, their work is dangerous. If it's dangerous work, reward them now.
 Maybe they should start setting up their own retirement accounts and funding their own retirement accounts, because the fact is, among the citizens, people like me, fewer than 20% of private people have a defined benefit plan anymore. We are funding our own retirements, and that number is expected to go to zero. These are Social Security Administration statistics. I have them if you want to see them. So...
 It's not really fair to the people. The average, the median income, I found figures ranging from $40,000 to $50,000 a year for Fayetteville as a median income. If you take out the $6,000 a year that we're paying now for medical insurance, and then...
 Your contribution to an IRA or a 401k, I mean, you're way down there. And yet these people, by age 55, the fire and police at least, I couldn't find the pension information for the regular city workers. I couldn't find that.
 But you could retire at age 55 and earn your full pay for another 30 years of doing nothing. And if you marry some 20-year-old Russian babe, when you're 70 and she's 20, she would get your retirement. I mean, these are huge... Okay, okay.
 These are huge potential liabilities that people are not talking about. Another thing, medical insurance. Apparently, according to the records I saw, city employees pay about 7% to 10%, and the city pays 90% of the medical insurance premiums. We came from a good industry where we thought we had it good. We paid a third, and our employers paid two-thirds.
 So that's a pretty good benefit right there. And there are other benefits of city employment. And then I guess the last few points is that Social Security COLA, in the last 10 years, has basically gone up at the average inflation rate, which is 1.7% for the last 10 years. And you have a lot of people on fixed incomes, and they're not getting any relief. They're not getting any 11% raise or 14% raise. So...
 I think the city council really has to think about this and be good guys for the sake of us all. I would, and here I get to say it one more time, except my mouth's getting dry, I would gladly, that crazy August vote on the $52 million for the expansion of the library, as to which you still don't have title to the land, last I read in the paper, so you may just have to build it up.
 And the Gazette-Telegraph said in 2004, the library was built new and it's like state of the art library, but we got... You're basically billing me an extra three or four hundred dollars a year for a library I never used. I would gladly put part of that towards police and fire if that's where the equity is. If that's what needs to be done, if that's what's fair. But we have to come up with something sensible.
 and not just spend money. Arkansas already has the second highest sales tax in the United States. Apparently the state gets like 6.5% and the cities can, localities can get like 3% and you could actually bump it up a little bit more. But I hope the city is not considering another tax increase. Last year
 Was it last year or the year before that the police came in at the end of the fiscal year and they had some items they needed? I think it was the police and the fire department, and all the money had already been spent, so I thought there was a millage increase for that. But the point is that you can't do this from a motion. It's got to be done. I will be dead 20 years from now. I won't be paying for any of these pensions. But you will have children and grandchildren who will be paying for it if you don't make a smart decision now.
 Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address us? Mr. Mayor, council members, I am Phillip Lee. I'm with the police department. I'm not going to go over everything that Jimmy did, but I just want to address you all to let you know we echo his sentiments as far as the numbers and everything. We propose that it be passed at 25 percent tonight, but we also in that directive have concerns moving forward that possibly some committee be formed.
 to where we can you know get a clear concise definitive plan for the future and and allay some of these concerns that our members are expressing to us at this time and that's pretty much all i wanted to say you folks and not go over hash shape okay thank you sir i'll take questions okay anybody else okay i'm going to bring it back to the council i do believe that the comp was taken into consideration in the pay plan
 Mayor, I'd actually like to address... And Lofty 2 does not cover spouses. Several comments, frankly, are just not accurate.
 First of all, we have a very reputable firm in the Johansson firm, and they are a national firm. Much like a Walmart that started with a local family here, their family is local, and we're thrilled that they're located in Fayetteville, and they're very competent, and they do the wage studies for not only the city of Fayetteville, but many cities throughout Arkansas, as well as the United States. You can't blame a consultant for math.
 And that's what a compensation study is. It's looking at the financials that you want to compare to your cities. You know, this discussion about having a committee, there are things that actually could be policy addressed here.
 Are we benchmarking against the right cities? That is a question. I brought it up at the agenda session. It's still something that I think a committee and the council could address. We did expand it in 2004 from only Arkansas cities to regional cities in suburbs of St. Louis, Kansas City, Oklahoma City, and even at that time some Texas locations.
 We now have 11 years of data on where our recruitment comes and where our people exit.
 And that is valuable information in determining what cities you collect pay data on in terms of recruitment and who you lose people to. So that, I think, is a valid discussion to take place. We did look at total compensation. Alderman Tennant was the alderman on the selection committee, and he conveyed very clearly to the city staff and to the consultant that total comp was something that he wanted evaluated.
 And we have taken into consideration that Lot Fee 2 is a benefit that the city gives that other peer cities in our group, the eight within Arkansas, when you look at those alone, our benefit in most of those cases is richer than the other. It's why there was...
 to the dispute of our workforce, a discount factor put into place about what that payout is at Lot Fee 2 versus Lot Fee 1 for larger cities. It was considered. Our healthcare was considered.
 We looked at all of those items because you can talk about paying someone now, but it is all about recruitment. And if you aren't compensating fairly and providing total compensation of rewards fairly, and we've learned things about certificate pay, we learned things about how holiday pay is treated, which jobs are exempt, what actual pay lines are, are all important factors in calculating these numbers.
 You know, I've been going through this data because it actually used to be my field. And I have probably been a person who's talked with Blair and his team quite a bit because I want to understand it well. But, you know, just I was looking at just the local three cities right here in our region. And the data that is used in the study to calculate averages about where we're behind market. And, you know, just as a.
 very simple calculation, I'm going to use the very top of the chart because the percentages that Blair talks about where we're off really are all of the positions. There is greater variance as you move up your chart in the higher levels of management, particularly on the maximum side, not as much on the minimum where a person enters that particular rank.
 But an example, a police captain in Rogers, max pay is $116,100, but their average is $91,240. There's no one being paid at the max. The-
 The police chief's max is 147,000, market is 118,000, and that police chief is making 108,000. He is not even at the market of that particular range. Yet we are using those ranges in our calculations. Why is that an important factor for us? Because our plan is on a step plan.
 Two of the three cities in northwest Arkansas are basically on a merit type grid, where when we talk about implementing merit pay at 100%, we can do it because we don't put people at the exact same point on the grid as they were at prior to the structure changing. And what I mean by that is we have 157 employees who are topped out in the old structure on the merit side.
 When the new grid is applied, those individuals are not topped out any longer. Some of them move to the third quadrant of the pay because of where the market moved that pay. They're only eligible for whatever percentage increase the council approves. We don't put them back at the max out pay.
 That is something that happens in a step structure. If you're at step J, you stay on step J and you only get the adjustment. So you really are paying always at the max. Two of these departments, the reason they have maxes, but they don't have anyone within 10,000 of them.
 And that data is easily found in the study information that Johansson Group has done. And I'm not saying that that's right and that we want to leave our step plan. I don't think we do because it's competitive and we want to stay that way. But there is a reality of that impact on the calculations of how far we're off. Because...
 These other departments are not paying people in a STEP program at those maxes. They have that opportunity, but it's a much longer time period. Just like the newspaper article said, what each of the cities did, 2.3, 3.1, 1.9, a pound of increases in these cities, if they were going to these STEP programs, their numbers would be much higher because...
 they are not just implementing a percentage number that is per employee. That's a factor that's a discussion point. Just about our structure in general is 10 steps the right steps. And when we are talking about this implementation, it is not on the public safety side. It is not just the implementation of the structure but it's the movement of the step. And we are adamant
 as an administration that you must keep the movement of the step in the plan or you create huge compression issues in your hiring as you bring people in. That is the one thing that Mayor Jordan, when he had to freeze wages in that particular year, is something that we know that group impacted will never catch up on because as we hired someone we now have
 people hired in a different year on the same step. And we swore we'd never do it again, and that's why you'll never see a recommendation come from us that doesn't at least advance the step. That's why this implementation plan was done that particular way. But pay is all about getting the best talent, keeping the talent, and when you lose the talent, making sure that you're losing it for reasons other than total compensation.
 There are factors. I used this example the other day with the mayor. I could go work in another city. I got a job offer here.
 A lot of applause, I'm sure, that would happen about that. But it was at a city, a much higher crime rate, in a part of the world that I don't want to live in, in a city that isn't one of the best places to live, without the cultural arts environment, without the inclusivity of its citizenry that I want. There's a lot of factors that would go into how I choose where I want to work and how we all do.
 I mean, my brother worked for the state police in Virginia. Working in Richmond was very different than working in Campbell County, Virginia. Lynchburg, 83,000 people, pretty white, low crime rates. It's a very different environment. And what he was willing to do or work in that is a decision his family made. You know, having spousal benefits, we have to have those. And they pay for that, right?
 That's another thing that was a misstatement. It's available, but they actually pay to get that benefit. So the committee idea is great. I just want to reiterate that if there's going to be a committee, it has to be more than implementation. It has to be a discussion about are we comparing to the right cities? Do we have the right structure in place? How do we keep it updated?
 the years between the overall study because just inflation alone changes these numbers. We expected something about 8% if we figured between one and a half to two percent per year just on an inflationary basis and we're over that. But if we had at least done that we wouldn't have as big a gap against these 22 cities that we have today. And then there's the question are they the right cities? And then there's the question about what is our real market? And
 you know, where are we getting our people and when do we lose them? Are we losing them to retirement, which means we're a pretty good place to stay? Are we losing, and that's not also totally fair because they don't have the same flexibility that I have as a merit employee to leave because they can't just start their career at any age. And that's a consideration. So it is a more comprehensive discussion as a committee than just how do we implement 100% of this plan.
 I want to say that because, and then the calculations, I just wanted to be very clear. The data we got, the software we're using to grade our jobs and have equity throughout our entire structure, every municipality, every private business has a job grading structure, if they're of any size.
 to put equity between positions. And that's the kind of software we're using. That's the expertise of the consulting firm that we have obtained. And they're a very reputable firm that, frankly, from my opinion, and I believe Brenda and Michelle would agree with me, we are much more satisfied with our consultant this round than we were with our prior consultant, regardless of the results of the data. Thank you for letting me .
 All right, what else do we have here? What does everybody else want to say? All right, Matthew. Mayor, I move we pass resolution. Allen. Second. Okay. What final comments do we have? I've got a couple, three, before we vote. First of all, I certainly want to apologize to Scott O'Dell if he felt as I was not completely honest with him in our dealings in my office.
 As far as I know, I've been one of the few mayors that has allowed the president of the local IAFF and FOP to come in and visit with him on a monthly basis. We set up labor management teams that were supposed to address issues just like this, which obviously has not done what I thought it would do. So I will certainly set up a committee because I want to address a few issues that I see
 And the cities that we are looking at, that's causing a lot of these issues. I want everybody to be paid fairly. If anyone has advocated for employees, it has been myself. My record, you can look at it.
 I've never intended to hurt anybody or keep anybody from making the pay that's deserved to them. As far as I knew, that four years ago we did a pay plan, and the fire department was in double digits then, and we caught that up. Did we not, Paul? That's correct, ma'am. It's to your knowledge, so everybody was caught up to market then. Correct? Correct. All right. Now we've got a new set that we will look at.
 But there's no way that I can recommend 100% of this pay plan to you and hope to keep it going. I cannot afford to put the city in financial jeopardy in issues like this of pay. Now, we will put a committee together. I'll be happy to put a committee together. I'll have one put together within the next couple of weeks. Fair enough? Okay. And we will sit down at a table and we will discuss this. John? Okay.
 Great idea, Mayor. All right. Thank you for your commitment. So we will do that, and we'll thrash out a lot of this, and we will not wait until August or September. I'll have something put together in the next couple of weeks. Then when we come back to the council, council members will have to decide if you want to go, and it's been what Paul has looked at, if you go to 50% of this pay plan, you could look at having to do taxes to implement. Is that correct, Paul? Yes.
 Again, Mayor, that depends on what the revenue sources are. That's true, too. The estimate is, from what I see, I don't think we're going to achieve what we need to, and we would have to have a discussion about property taxes. Again, I don't have a crystal ball, nor does anyone else here. We'll have to look at it at the time and see exactly what we're discussing, but I don't see us generating that type of additional revenue at all.
 Okay. All right. And also, as far as knowing the numbers ahead of time, I think we were all just a little bit stunned about how much they were off. Because we had everything up to market four years ago, and they've jumped that much. If I had known that, I would have certainly told you all that. I think you know that. Okay. I didn't know about the numbers until about six weeks ago, and the numbers are the numbers. And we've got to figure out how to pay for it. So I hope you all bring some wonderful ideas.
 Some money all right with that Don do you have something else you want to say? Okay, Sondra, would you please call the road? Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, ma'am Yes Yes, all righty then moving right along if you like that when I have another one for you. All right number six. I
 A resolution to approve an adjustment of $3,100,000 to invest in the Theater Squared proposed project to be built on city property leased to Theater Squared Incorporated. All right.
 Where shall we begin? Mayor, I'll start if you don't mind. All right. I know you all know what Theater Squared is. For those watching at home may have read about this, want to go through a little history. Theater Squared is a non-profit professional theater located here in downtown Fayetteville. They offer a live theater experience. They have about 40,000 patrons annually. It's the only theater of its kind in a 150-mile radius.
 Educational programs from Theater Squared reach about 1,500 Fayetteville students for free. We also, Theater Squared also allows for free tickets for clients of various nonprofit organizations in Fayetteville as well. The organization is currently leasing space from the Walton Arts Center at the Nadine Baum Studio as its primary performance area. It also has several satellite locations for storing equipment, offices, and other supporting activities.
 Growth in Theatre Squared prompted a study of what they should call their new home in the future. And in August of 2015, they began a design exploration process through an Our Town grant through the National Endowment for the Arts.
 Over the past 10 years, there was a tenfold increase in the audience and the budget. That was from 2009. And national recognition has been drawing visitors to this region in great numbers.
 In 2015, as I mentioned, the design exploration process began and Theater Squared also announced a Walton Family Foundation Northwest Arkansas Design Excellence Program grant, essentially providing the grant funding for architecture and design for the design cost for the project.
 The city supported Theater Squared in these grant applications, and we also continued that support in 2015 in October when the City Council approved a resolution expressing our support and intent to negotiate a lease to utilize a property identified for its new home essentially across the street on West Avenue at the southeast corner of Spring and West, which currently contains an existing city parking lot.
 This particular site is just under an acre and allows for the space through the design process to provide a new theater which will be presented by the Theater Squared team here in just a moment.
 The lease was brought forward, negotiated by the mayor and city attorney and brought forward to the city council. We approved a recurring 25-year lease with certain terms to provide for expansive programming and similar programming to what they provide today.
 And then just this year, Theatre Squared also announced a challenge grant from the Walton Family Foundation offering a $9 million one-to-two matching grant for the construction of a permanent home for Theatre Squared.
 THEATER SQUARED HAS SUBMITTED A LETTER OF REQUEST, WHICH IS INCLUDED IN YOUR PACKET. THE ORIGINAL FUNDING REQUEST WAS FOR THE CITY COUNCIL TO COMMIT $7 MILLION OF PUBLIC FUNDS TOWARD THE PROJECT. THE TOTAL INVESTMENT IS ABOUT $31 MILLION WHEN YOU CONSIDER ALL CONSTRUCTION FUNDING AND DESIGN, WHICH WOULD BE INVESTED IN THE CITY FABRICS DOWNTOWN.
 um the city of fable and mayor in particular is supporting a request for funding simply not at the seven million dollars that was requested um as identified in the packet we feel like establishing fable as a year-round regional theater district when you compare ourselves with other cities in the region we would be one of the only with the two live performing arts theaters on essentially the same block walton arts walton arts center and theater squared
 and providing diverse performances, fueling our downtown economic engine. We believe this would bring, and we know it brings already national arts tourists who are traveling to the region, not only for performing arts, but visual arts and others and crystal bridges, utilizing our trail system and a number of the other offerings that the cultural arts investment all throughout the region has afforded.
 We also have provided some economic development numbers because at the heart of it, this is an economic development investment, we believe. The Northwest Arkansas Council, which acts as our regional economic development entity,
 And also the economist Kathy Deck from the University of Arkansas Center for Business and Economic Research projects that during construction alone, the new building to be located in downtown Fayetteville would generate roughly $50 million in economic output and over 350 jobs. Once the doors are open, roughly 2019, that economic impact would continue to pay back for decades to come, starting around $5 million in theaters first year and growing subsequent year.
 um in order to become a reality theater squared is stated in their application public funds are needed we have certainly supported their endeavor obviously leasing of the land and providing that land for them to for this for this project for consideration is certainly important in that in that process
 The economic development plan that you all passed, Fayetteville First, mentioned this very specifically, that we would invest in supporting investments in the arts and cultural focus area, and specifically that, quote, the nonprofit arts and culture sector is a significant industry in Northwest Arkansas area, as many growing areas also see, generating over $45 million in total economic activity. The support and further enhancement of Fayetteville arts and cultural environment is critical.
 A second action item is also to support our cultural arts district development. And it identifies the defining characteristic of the cultural arts district will include a concentration of cultural facilities and related activities, including those that support the fine arts, such as concert halls, theaters, and galleries.
 So this is something that's not new. It's not something that we've dreamed up. It's something that we are certainly supportive and stated very clearly in our economic development plan, which is a five-year economic development investment plan
 We feel like we're well on our way toward meeting many of those goals, particularly in the entrepreneurial services as the startup city, and Theater Squared is one of those original startup companies. Literally a troop of entrepreneurs have built this theater from concept into reality and into the next phase of success or scaling up.
 The mayor has indicated he fully supports this endeavor. We believe that an economic and cultural impact of an extended, unique theater, a new home for this theater in the downtown can be a significant draw for tourism and an economic development to the city.
 We believe that the Dixon Street Merchants Association agrees with that as evidenced by the letter in your packets because these types of facilities often support restaurants the expansion of restaurants Shopping local shopping as well and other establishments Theater squared is also obviously as part of their fundraising activities. I'm looking for private fundraising as well and with this specific
 which again will be described in the design drawings in the presentation. It will also provide public space for not just for closing the doors at 5 o'clock or after a show, but something that's open many hours of the day for the public to utilize, and that's also part of our lease agreement.
 Obviously, as we've discussed tonight, there are a lot of competing priorities for city resources, and the mayor has indicated that obviously he's very fiscally conservative. He does not want to risk using our full reserves and leaving no funding flexibility in case of uncertain financial times. So he is recommending support in the amount of $3.1. This would be from fund balance or general fund reserves as a one-time expenditure to support and advance our economic development arts and cultural plan plan.
 The $3.1 million investment along with the lease of the valuable public parking lot land for the construction of this facility clearly shows the commitment to their project and to our goal of Fayetteville becoming a performing arts capital of the region. I was asked this question earlier this week. I do want to clarify that this facility would be a city facility, much like we invested in the Walton Arts Center facility in the 1990s. That remains a city asset, a city building.
 It's actually jointly owned in that particular case by the university in the city of Fayetteville. This one would be owned by the city of Fayetteville. We believe it's an investment in our future and a sound long-term investment in terms of our economic development of the city in the downtown specifically. We do have letters of support from the university chancellor, the Dixon Street Emergence Association, and also the Northwest Arkansas Council in your packets, and we'd certainly appreciate
 try to answer any questions you might have. Okay. Martin, would you like to give a presentation, and then we'll let you all weigh in on it. Thank you. Bob, good to see you. Yeah. Good evening. Thank you. This is an amazing opportunity to share with you our vision for Fayetteville's future as our region's theater district. I'm Bob Ford. I'm the artistic director of Theater Squared.
 And I'm Martin Miller, I'm the executive director. So as Jeremy mentioned, Theatre Squared
 really is and I will tell you for a long time very much felt like a real Fayetteville startup story. Back in 2005 its founders saw that there was an unmet need in the region for a professional theater that created original performances that you couldn't find anywhere else and today you still will not find another professional theater offering a year-round season within 150 mile radius in any direction and that's a competitive advantage for our hometown and
 It's why more than half of our audience travels from outside Fayetteville to see the shows. And they're satisfied. I think Jeremy mentioned we're currently the city's top rated attraction on TripAdvisor. Thinking back, as I often do, to where we started in 2005, it is absolutely amazing to see packed houses at our theater every weekend. Last season our attendance passed, as Jeremy said, 40,000.
 It's particularly meaningful to me that of that 40,000, 18,000 are students. And many of those are students who are seeing their first theater ever. Theater Squared has grown at a pace that captured national attention, recognitions from the American Theater Wing, American Theater Magazine, the Schubert Foundation, and others. But I just want to say that even as we grew,
 Here's a couple charts of that growth, which is always fun to share with our board. We have doubled down on our commitment to make the work accessible to everyone. In fact, this season we'll offer 7,500 free and reduced-price tickets to members of our community who would otherwise be unable to attend. Back in early 2015, Theatre Squared brought together a strategy group to help us tackle
 major challenge our Facility the Walnut Center has provided has been a great incubator for our company, but We were growing rapidly and literally bursting at the seams the strategy groups unanimous unanimous vote at that time was to explore building a permanent home to bring together all of our functions under one roof and
 allow us to serve a larger audience, and become a true cultural destination in Fayetteville.
 We got a major shot in the arm, as Jeremy also mentioned, with the selection for the Design Excellence Program from the Walton Family Foundation. This was a three and a half million dollar commitment to get the project off the ground and helped us hire, frankly, the Theatre Design Dream Team, people who helped design the new home for the Royal Shakespeare Theatre, and it's been a privilege to work with them.
 In early 2016, our design team joined community members for a public roundtable conversations, which were open to everyone in the community, to learn how Fayetteville citizens would use the new facility and what they valued about a downtown arts experience. And as you can imagine, we learned a lot. Thank you.
 We always knew we wanted to build this theater in Fayetteville. It is our home. We have a great University of Arkansas relationship. Many students and faculty members attend. And we really appreciate the support this council has shown for the long-term lease that we worked together with the city attorney and with the staff and the mayor to put together in the summer of last year. So thank you for that vote already in support.
 So we started to design the theater from the inside out and do we have a, yeah there it is. So this is a look at the main stage plan for the new facility which preserves what makes T2 performances unique. And that really starts with the intimacy and the warmth.
 that you feel when you're in a performance. But also, and crucially, adding the backstage support that is needed to fully realize a show at the level of production you'd experience in Chicago or Austin or Kansas City or even London.
 The building will also house a second stage, the studio theater, and that's going to help us in a big way bring a lot more of our educational programs under our own roof. Right now our education tour rehearses in our conference room. We're also excited to be able to stage two performances at once at the same time as bringing more people into downtown Fayetteville at once.
 Also expressing who we think of as, what we think of as our identity here in Fayetteville, the Marvel Architects design is for a community space that is unabashedly proud of its theater function so that the main stage, the studio theater, the rehearsal spaces are all visible to anybody walking by in the street.
 Here's a look at the design. I imagine most of you have seen it from the corner of West and Spring. There are public outdoor spaces at every level at Spring Street, on West Avenue, and even on the third level. And further along west, we will blend into the neighborhood by building permanent artists' residences. And also, as you can see, really important to us, we envision the theater's commons on three levels.
 as a place that's open all day long, that is completely accessible to our community, whether or not we've got a show in progress. This vision also reflects our deep desire for the building to serve as a true community resource, even for people who aren't there to see a show.
 We pushed our design team to come up with a design that's really cost efficient and sustainable and they delivered we're happy that the Costing for the building is coming in about 30% below the average cost per square foot for comparable facilities construction projects nationwide. I feel like we're going we're like playing we're on the Right. It's a little back and forth
 As I think is really clear, well, what might not be clear, when we founded Theatre Squared 12 years ago, back then we wrote into our vision statement that we saw this company becoming an essential economic component in our community.
 Appreciate it, Jeremy. Going through these statistics, we were happy to be able to work with Kathy Deck and the U.A. Center for Business and Economic Development. The numbers he mentioned, the $50 million impact from construction, 350 jobs, and then using American for the Arts numbers, creating an engine that generates $5 million in economic activity each year and a 50-year impact of $381 million. It's incredible.
 We're a mission-driven organization, and as Bob noted, actually it was in the original vision for the organization to help drive community action in this way. So as you know also from your packet, this project has garnered wide support from our city's and our region's leaders. Here's just a few examples from Steve Clark. From a Chamber of Commerce perspective, we are thrilled
 The new theater will create permanent jobs and will become a major source of revenue, pride, and service to the community. From Chancellor Steinmetz, I believe this venue will benefit our city and region, strengthening our tourism base, enriching culture across Arkansas, and yield economic benefits to the city and region.
 And again, as Jeremy mentioned, we could go on and on. The Northwest Arkansas Council, the Walton Family Foundation, the Dixon Street Merchants Association, a lot of individuals, folks like Frank Sharp who is sitting back here, and who, by the way, helped form a similar partnership to create the Walton Arts Center 30 years ago. 30 years ago.
 After seven years in which we've achieved a surplus every season, our organization is on very solid financial ground. We anticipate breaking ground later this year and offering our first performances in the fall of 2019. We've already announced the Walton Family Foundation's
 $12.5 million commitment and our private fundraising in the quiet phase is proceeding very well. We've received a competitive $18.5 million construction loan from Arvest Bank, so we can guarantee the project will be completed once we break ground. We're also working to ensure the organization's sustainable operations after we move in and we've got a significant operating reserve built into our fundraising campaign.
 I'm happy to also share that we're in the final stages of securing a major seven-figure grant to help support our operating transition So we don't have to reduce our programs even as we move into a more capable facility And we have strong annual partnerships from folks area leaders like Walmart the Walker Foundation the Wingate Foundation and many others so
 Tonight you're considering a proposal to provide 3.1 million dollars in public funds to help leverage a significant private funding of over 22 million dollars and make this major economic development project a reality and Personally and speaking for our staff. We greatly greatly appreciate the conversations. We've had with our
 the city with Mayor Jordan and his staff over the past couple of years, conversations that have brought us to this moment. We're happy to know that this building will quite literally and permanently belong to the city of Fayetteville and its citizens.
 This sort of public partnership, and we've done a lot of research on this, is the exact same way that cities like Austin, like Denver, like Chicago, like Brooklyn, countless municipalities across the country have succeeded in building their own permanent theater facilities. Many of these places are aspirational peers to our city and region.
 that we're excited to help move Fayetteville forward as the region's performing arts capital. We appreciate this opportunity and would welcome your questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Jeremy or Martin and Bob? Okay, all right, go ahead, Jess. Thank you very much, first of all, for the presentation. And we've talked several times and I know you well. And let me first say that
 that what you've done over the last few years is amazing, the growth that you've experienced and the way that you've done it. So kudos to you for that. Thank you. And my questions really are not about the cultural aspect and not about what the project really is, but to give money like this
 I have a couple of questions. You hit on them a little bit. I'd like to revisit them a little bit. Sure. So my big concern with any business, if I'm going to invest in it, and I have to think of this as my investment since it's the people's money that we're investing, is its longevity and its ability to pay for itself in the long term. Because all those numbers are great, about $5 million a year for the rest of time and everything else, but only if you're open and doing what you say you're going to do.
 And I compare this a little bit to I've known people that have had restaurants. I understand you're not a restaurant, but just bear with me.
 They've rented a building for years. They make the greatest food in the world. Everything seems just a natural next step I'm going to go build my own restaurant I'm going to do everything that I can do still bring the same food and attitude everybody's fired up They get into the new restaurant that is their building Suddenly they have all these other things that they're responsible for And suddenly that chef that makes this great food is not making the food anymore because he or she
 are replacing the carpets that suddenly the landlord used to do it. Now they have to do it. They have an air conditioner that's broken down. They have all these other things that comes with ownership of a facility that has nothing to do with what you actually do in the facility. So my question is, you hit on operating budget, you hit on reserves.
 Those are two things I would be very interested in more detail on, because is that through an endowment? Is that through a set amount that you anticipate every year for operating expenses? And I just say that because I know it all sounds really good, but there's a reality when you tear away the things that are not under the lights and on stage. There's a day-to-day process that has to take place just to stay in business. Sure. And what I'm trying to guard against.
 is five years from now, theater squared financial problems goes away and then the city is stuck with a really pretty building that doesn't give any money back to the community. I appreciate that because those are the exact same questions that I have spent a lot of my time and our board's time and a lot of knowledgeable people's time tackling over the past couple years as we've dived into whether we're ready to have this full conversation.
 It's why we're including an operating reserve as part of the capital campaign, but it's also why we've already built a cash reserve of over $400,000 at this point by achieving a surplus every year in the past seven years. Much the same reason why Paul and the City Council have seen fit to create a few months worth of reserves, we've done the same thing.
 A few factors to consider, one is that as we move into the new building, we will no longer be responsible for between $150,000 and $200,000 of
 other rental and ticketing fees costs that are currently our responsibility. It's helpful, it doesn't cover the whole transition, but it means that we have, we're able to move current support that pays for those things into the new responsibilities in the new space. I mentioned that we are, and I'm sorry I can't share more detail about it, although we hope to announce it soon,
 We're in the final stages of a grant process that will, for the first three years, help us to make sure we're not diverting any of our funds away from our programs and doing, as you said, no longer cooking the food.
 We've also engaged a panel of other people that have had this kind of facilities transition, specifically in the performing arts, in other parts of the country who are advising us on realistically what are those costs? How can you budget them? How do you account for depreciation and unanticipated maintenance?
 So they're giving our pro formas a hard look and being honest with their feedback, which I really appreciate. And we've created pro formas that not only, you know, reflect the best case, hey, we've raised the whole reserve, we've paid off our construction debt in the first year because we had a successful campaign, but also the worst case, we never raise another dime above the 70% threshold you need to begin construction. Neither of those cases result in stopping the operations of the theater.
 That being said, we appreciate the city's approach to creating a lease document which says we have to deliver or else it's the city's building to bring in another company to operate. So we will not get in a situation where we're just sitting there and not offering the level of programming that we're offering now. The city is safeguarded on that front. Can I ask one more question? Sure. This is actually to Kit. If I could, sir. Sure. I'm a little bit of a fan of the program.
 In the Walton Arts Center situation, did we have, if I remember correctly, some guarantees of fundraising for us to, for any city money to go to the Walton Arts Center? Was there some sort of guarantee written in that I don't remember?
 Are you talking about the original construction? I don't really think that there was, but there was at the same time the construction occurred a commitment by the university and the city to put a substantial amount of money, I think a million and a half each, in the foundation, the Walton Arts Foundation. It wasn't called that. It was the U of A and City Foundation then.
 Yes, they did have a substantial amount of money. And when you look at the total cost of the Walton Arts Center being
 The construction itself being $8 million or less, $3 million in reserves is a very large percent. So yes, there was thought about that, just like they've been thinking about it, that you do need to have some money in there to kind of make sure that you're going to be stabilized and be able to continue. As you know, when we changed all the agreements before the enhancement and enlargement of the Walton Arts Center, they actually paid us that money back.
 so that they would be able to invest as they saw fit, rather than having to continue to follow the city municipal rules on investment, which obviously is extremely conservative, mainly cash. So as Paul would tell you, you don't make much money on cash.
 So they did pay that back to us because they're quite stable at this point in time. In this particular write-up and the way it's written up, if we give $3.1 million to Theater Square, that money is immediately gone? Or is there anything that we are holding as collateral, so to speak, or that the people are holding as collateral, so to speak, to make sure that their investment is actually seen through?
 Let me read you what the operative words, the real important words of the resolution are. The City Council hereby approves a budget adjustment of $3,100,000 to enable Mayor Jordan to pledge and then invest that amount in the Theater Square's proposed theater project pursuant to a proper agreement which the City Council authorizes Mayor Jordan to execute.
 There's not going to be we're not going to give them the money. We're going to have an agreement I'm going to have this agreement. We have not worked out yet Even though you would be tentatively giving mayor Jordan the right to sign the agreement It might be that it will be a cost share agreement
 If it's a cost share agreement, then it's going to have to come back to you because of the way that you see all cost share agreements. You have to weigh the rules of competitive bidding and bring it back to you. I'm not sure that's what will happen. But I guarantee you, I've thought long and hard about this to try to make sure that,
 when our money gets invested we know that there is going to be a project completed and completed with reserves so we have some confidence in the future that it will in fact continue to function i think theater squared knows that i think they're prepared to do that i really haven't begun negotiations because you know i'm kind of waiting to see whether city council wants to invest this 3.1 million dollars uh that's the i don't want to get the cart for the horse so you all are making that decision
 tonight, but if you make that decision, I will do my best to try to ensure that we are protected, just like I did in the enhancement project, where we had agreements in there, and this won't take as long as that year-and-a-half or two-year project did to try to get the proper agreements. Thank you, Chip. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 One thing I've been thinking about as we've talked about this tonight is a situation or discussions that happened during the Walton Art Center process. A lot of questions came up about freedom of information and will information flow freely to the citizens of Fayetteville because they're the ones investing $3.1 million. I guess my question is for Kit and also for Martin. Would that apply in this case?
 The Walton Arts Center is slightly different in that we actually have representatives on the Walton Arts Center Council that runs the Walton Arts Center, and this is a private nonprofit. So I don't think the Freedom of Information Act would apply to them from a legal point of view. I think reports to the citizens are very important. We get reports from the Walton Arts Center and other entities that have used our money in the past.
 And I would imagine that we would, the City Council would probably like, as part of the consideration for our $3.1 million, if you decide to do that, to get some reports back from Theater Square to see how it is operating. So I think that's all going to be part of an agreement that I would be trying to work out with them. And like I said, it very well might be a cost share agreement, which means it would have to come back to the City Council.
 If I could add to that, just to note that we also have some reporting requirements within the current lease document that I think amount to much the same thing. And also just as an organization, we do have a commitment to transparency, which we would definitely continue to see through. Okay. And that's the reason I ask is because, like I said, it did come up as a large discussion point during the Walton Arts Center negotiations.
 And I think it really is important to our citizens, and that's why I sponsored the ordinance that two or three years ago that said that any entity that we go into business with basically, that's simplifying it a bit, but does have to follow our freedom of information requirements.
 So I would think that that would apply in some way. It would apply if we were providing operational funding to them like we do to many other entities where the FOI does apply, the youth center and stuff like that. If they're taking our money and using it for their operations, then to that effect, any decision on use of the city money would then obviously be subject to FOI.
 This investment is not for operations, it's for capital. And so once the capital has been spent, then I don't think that they would be subject to the FOI from a legal point of view for their operations. I think that and I do think that Theater Squared is coming at this from the right angle. I think that you are going to be open.
 At the same time, with some of the concerns that Alderman Tennant brought up, which is ongoing operations, I do think having Freedom of Information applied to this area was something that I would like to see as a condition of our giving the funds. And I will make a motion as to such to amend this in that way. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE Well, of course, at this point, there's not a resolution we're talking about. If there hadn't been a motion to approve it, you probably ought to make a motion to amend the resolution if you want to. I don't know what you want to say on it.
 That the Freedom of Information Act will apply to any contract that we enter into. To apply, in other words, they would be subject to the FOI for the next 50 years. During the construction phase. During construction. Okay. So we have an amendment to apply the FOI during the construction of Theater Square, correct? All right. Do we have a second on that? I will if John is not going.
 I know, Mayor, I'm not getting a second. Okay. Well, all right, Justin. I'll second it. All right, we have a motion and a second to amend to apply the FOI during the construction of Theater Square. Well, let's begin with the amendment, shall we? All right. Who wants to be first or second? Oh, I'm sorry, John.
 I understand the FOI is important for city employees, for transparency to the citizens of our city, to the citizens of our state. I'm not sure applying those same principles to a private enterprise, even a nonprofit, is really necessary. That would be my point on the amendment. Okay. So, but I still want to reserve the right to speak about the main issue. Absolutely. Okay.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. As well intentioned as the motion is, I can't help but have some deep questions about the mechanics of how it would be enforced. Safe Freedom of Information Act requires every member of a governing body to disclose to the press whenever three of them get together in the same room. I can't imagine applying that to a board regardless of the contents of their meeting.
 So, you know, while I have deep questions about the mechanics, you know, I want to acknowledge that the intentions come from a good spot, but, you know, I would encourage that we rely on our city attorney to draft the agreement that might come after this vote to address those intentions because the Freedom of Information Act itself, I think, is, you know, it's
 It's like using a sledgehammer to crack walnuts. Okay. Alan? Just to clarify, as Kit said, some of the mechanics can be worked out later. But like I mentioned earlier, this discussion point came up a lot during the Walton Art Center conversations and during different meetings I've heard almost every member of this council say that that was a problem or a question or things that they've heard from their constituents. So I'd like to put those words into action.
 And while some of the mechanics may be worked out while Kit and the Mayor's office are working together to draft an agreement, I think $3.1 million is enough money to merit us being ensured that some form of information will be guaranteed to us. Chair Greg Musil. Yes. Trustee Lee Cross. And I would just say that I would vote for this because I wouldn't be representing a majority of my constituents.
 if I didn't, and this has nothing to do with the two people standing at the podium. There's a trust issue in this project of the people that I've talked to. There's a is it really necessary? There's a lot of different things that are coming at me by my constituents. And if I don't support a freedom of information action or the ability to have that action during your, you're just saying during the construction phase.
 which is what the citizens are paying for, then I believe that makes it a little more difficult. Now, I do understand what Alderman LaTour is saying, and I'm not saying that going forward we need to necessarily force anything into a private business.
 But this is not a private business right now because we're talking about public money going to it. So to me, that stops it from being a private business. We are now investors in this business. And as an investor, if I own any part of any company and I have a lot of stock and I get little, sometimes I don't read them, full reports regularly from those companies, no matter how little I may own of it.
 And I appreciate the ability to know that. Now, I know FOI is different, and I understand what Alderman Petty is saying about the restrictions. But we're doing an awful lot here as a city. We've already given the land. In most cases, that would be more than enough. But we see a need now, or some may, some may not, to give $3.1 million of tax money to
 which we fortunately got last year in excess, but we may never get in excess again, towards this, when we've got, I can think of about a dozen things that we could spend money on today. It might not give us the return, but if this business doesn't stay healthy, we won't get any return. So that's where my earlier caution was. So I just...
 It is an issue. There is a trust issue, not with these people, but with this project. And I think FOI is a good move. So if I get outvoted, I have no problem getting outvoted. But I want to say it anyway. Chair Greg Musil? Well, I want to say again that I appreciate the intention, but I really want to underline, and I hope I'm not belaboring the point, but
 When we're crafting a motion, the legal language is so important. It has deep ramifications. And when we reference the Freedom of Information Act, I think that there are incredible unintended consequences that go far beyond what the intentions seem to be here.
 so so you know i would say we should certainly expect to see disclosure consistent with the kind of disclosure that the lending institution is providing or is requiring we should expect
 Similarly, as the lending institution is requiring independent inspections of the work, we should expect that there are deep financial disclosures with regards to the payment of invoices all the way through the general contractor and the trades with the sub-invoices. That's the kind of disclosure that, in my opinion, should be very sufficient. It's certainly sufficient for the lender who is at risk.
 at a far greater level than we are. So I want to caution again, if this intention is a requirement for your vote, meaning this intention is a requirement for your vote, let's unpack the intention and find reliable
 legal language to craft a motion with instead of relying on a reference to the Freedom of Information Act because it just goes so far beyond what it seems we're asking. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. John? MR. I would just echo those same sentiments of Alderman Petty, but also I agree with Alderman Tennant. I don't want to just throw $3.1 million out there without some accountability.
 But I believe the better way to get that accountability is through the lease agreement. We can get as much or as little. I agree with Alderman Petty. FOI is enormous. I mean, it's killing a fly with a sledgehammer. You can do it, but you're using a lot of effort. And I think we might be hamstringing these guys as they try to make this a success, and I don't want to do that. I think KID is perfectly capable of drafting a document that will protect us. And that leads me into my other discussion.
 We're going to actually own the building? They're building it on our real property? That's correct. So we have a deed to it? We already own the land, and they will be building on land that we own. Therefore, the building is ours. Okay.
 So we're not giving them $3.1 million. We're investing it in our own real property. Yeah, we cannot give them that. We're making an investment to build our own building. That's the only way we can constitutionally do that. That's why we could only lease the land to them. We could not sell the land and then make an investment. And could I say one thing with someone who has 16 years of experience with the FOI? Sure.
 It has been on the receiving end many times, which is fine. I support the FOI. I think it's a great law. It's made for government, and it's made for government to have sunshine in it. And it can be abused. I've seen it abused against the city where somebody gets mad and they just start doing repetitive FOIs and demand every document in the world, and then they demand them again. And just because they demanded them once doesn't mean they can't demand them the next day.
 And that's one of the problems with the FOI, but for the government, I think that's okay. We're going to go ahead and do it. We've learned how to burn CDs, so we just keep sending out the same CD if they keep asking us stuff. I think that you're dealing with a private entity here that's going to need to have meetings with potential donors and don't want to have to call the press every time two of their board members want to meet with the donor and see if they can get any money for this project. They don't want to have three hours' notice to the press to do that.
 They don't want to have people that might be unhappy with them one way or another saying, I want to see every invoice you've ever created. I think that what we need to do as a city to ensure that this money is careful is keep the power ourselves to say, you know, if we're going to make this investment, then we need to be able to say any document we want to say that you have related this project. And if you all have questions
 We will certainly, I guarantee you, ask the questions to them, and it will be required in the contract that they would have to provide the documents to us. But let's not just open up the entire world and say anybody that has a bone to pick with Theater Squared, you can start hammering them because we've made them subject to the FOI, which state law doesn't say they're subject to. The Walton Arts Center was a different entity, like I said before, we had members on that
 The committee that ran that, the council, so did the University of Arkansas. So there was a lot of questions when two-thirds of the members were from state entities supported by state tax dollars, then maybe there was a lot bigger idea that maybe FOI, when it comes to meetings and things like that, should have been complied with.
 But that's all behind us now. We've gotten all that through. Everything's worked out. We've got a great Walton Arts Center now, and we're moving forward. I just don't think we're in the same situation here. This is a private nonprofit. They're not set up. This could hurt their fundraising. It could certainly be an administrative burden for them. And anything you need to know, we will be able to find out. Sarah Buckley.
 I understand where the motion is coming from and I agree that it's, you know, we need to have information provided to us. I really appreciate your comments there, but I think there's a way, as Kit said, I think we can get
 enough information we can write it into police we can we can cover ourselves basically and provide enough information from different probably a variety of sources we might ask for some certain things like Matt said from the lender from the board from an accountant or you know contractor or something like that but we write it in in such a way that we get an updated report on a regular basis
 And so if this goes forward, I would be in support of something like that in the lease agreement, but not the Freedom of Information Act. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you.
 As I pointed out before, I think they have the best of intentions at TheatreSquared. I enjoy their services and what they do for our city. But I do want to avoid being in a situation like we were in before. We are finally out of the Walton Art Center discussion, as Kit pointed out, but it took a long time and a lot of effort and a lot of public dialogue to get there.
 And the other thing is we're looking at a long-term lease agreement. This $3.1 million is just an asset that we can call any day of the week. I mean, looking at a long-term thing. So, I mean, I would be comfortable amending my motion to exclude fundraising activities. I think that would be fine. I don't want to know where the fundraising money comes from. And I know a lot of donors don't want to have people know where.
 that they're actually giving. So, opened ideas, but the point of the discussion, the point of the motion was to make sure that something was in the contract. I wanted to make sure we talk about that. So however it falls tonight, I'll be okay with. I do plan on supporting this, but I do want us to make sure that there is, there are protections in the contract for the City of Fayetteville as far as our investment and the information that we can achieve and receive.
 Well, I have quite a bit of confidence in the city attorney to be able to arrive at that. But what other discussion do we have on the amendment? What public comment? Everybody stay with me here now. If you're going to do public comment, stay with the amendment. We'll talk about the project as a whole after the amendment. So if you get off on whether you support this or not, stay with the amendment. I'm going to have to ask you to stay on track. All right? On topic.
 So does anybody want to talk about the FOI amendment? Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I don't know FOIA as well as Mr. Williams does by a long shot, but I am curious. You're a lucky man. I am curious. I mean, could a citizen then...
 Submit a request to the city to submit a request to this group They're gonna be sitting on city land with three million three point one million dollars if this happens and I I Would just I'm gonna think about it. I'm just saying I think there are some genuine concerns. I've got a look at the law Mr. Williams may know it off the top of his head, but this is a big investment and I just I
 I mean, if it's such a good investment, I don't know why there aren't other sources of funding other than the general revenues of the city. And so I think... I know the mayor doesn't want me to get into the merits, but I don't understand how there wouldn't be a continuing government interest. And I don't like what the Republicans are doing with the Freedom of Information Act. I believe in it. So anyway, I think it's something that has to be considered. Okay. Anybody else want to address this on the amendment?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion on the floor is to amend to apply the FOI during the construction of Theodore Square Correct. Any other comments from the council? Okay, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Keddie? No. Hinnant? Yes. Batch? No. Latour? No. Long? Yes. Gray? No. Okay
 What other things shall we discuss before we open it up to the public? Anybody have any questions for anybody? All right. Old John, yes, please. Comment about the real thing that we're talking about here, the $3.1 million. I'm torn by this. Can you tell by my hesitation? I have reservations about pouring $3.1 million from our tax coffers that our citizens have worked hard to put there.
 and I'm generally opposed to this sort of thing. But Mayor Jordan has done a good job pitching it, and I think he sold me. Okay? And here's the idea. I see a lot of firemen standing out there, and they're waiting to see how we're going to vote on this $3 million that we wouldn't spend on them. Okay? And I feel bad about that. We can't afford to pay our employees what they're worth. We know that. That's a plain, simple fact. Okay?
 I'm willing to spend the $3 million because that's going to help our tourism. And our biggest revenue generator, as Mr. Becker so eloquently pointed out tonight, is sales tax. We need more sales tax dollars. I will vote for things that develop and grow our city and bring more sales tax dollars so I can pay bigger salaries to our firemen and our policemen and the people who keep my water coming out of my faucet every morning.
 Those guys are the real heroes of our city not those of us who sit here in the limelight and make policy It's those guys that make it work They get things done and they deserve everything we can give them I think this investment is an avenue to giving higher salaries for all of our city employees
 That's why I would do it. I like the arts. They're okay. But I think fire and police are a whole lot more important. So I may not be doing it for the reasons you like, but I'll do it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you, John. Anybody else? Well, let's take some public comment. Here's the deal. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Stay on topic. Okay.
 Don't engage anybody in the office or anybody on the council. Ask your questions, Peter, and away we'll go. Yes, sir. Again, Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. First of all, I have a question. There was an editorial in the Democrat Gazette today. Yes, there was. And that is a different facility that might have been built here, but from which the Walton Foundation has withdrawn? Yes.
 Or is that this theater squared? No, I think the... Are you talking about the big project up north in Bentonville? Well, that's what it said. It sounded like there was talk about putting it here, but Walton said they wanted it, if anywhere, in Bentonville, and now they don't want to do it in 2017. Well, they're not committed to funding it right now in Bentonville. Right, but that's not this project. That's not this project. Right, but there is a...
 for clearing that up. That's a whole different story, starts in about 2009. There is a comment in there that says, Peter Lane, President and CEO of the Walton Arts Center, said the immediate goal is to maximize the opportunities created by the renovation of the Dixon Street venue. So, I look at this and they say they'll have 40,000 tickets a year.
 If you sold them at $20 a ticket, that's $800,000 in revenue, but apparently like 10,000 of them are students. I don't know how much economic impact you get from having thousands of students downtown. And I would be worried about the long-term viability of this project. It's a beautiful building, but if it doesn't work out as a business, what are you going to do with it? I mean, look at the building. It's pretty, but I mean, are you going to...
 what is the city going to do with it then commercially? I'm not convinced that it's viable. I don't know why you would want to create something that would compete with the Walton Art Center, which the Walton family, you know, one of our our greatest benefactors wants to keep occupied and busy. I mean, I think that's a real question. And finally, I was going to make the point that Mr. Latour made.
 I was sitting back there thinking with some of the people whose salaries I just criticized an hour ago, and I was thinking if I had to make a choice between a downtown theater arts experience and another police officer on the trail when we go bike riding, because someone was murdered in broad daylight a few months ago down by the lake, I'd rather have more police officers and firemen than another theater arts opportunity in Fayetteville. And I understand...
 where some people want to go with this in terms of making Fayetteville a premier city. But it's only going to be a premier city if you treat your employees fairly. It's like in the military, you've got to treat your troops fairly. And to have the troops sitting here who have just been denied, and this is $3.1 million worth of general funds, and I'm not happy about their pensions, but if they need relief now,
 but you want to invest in a theater for students who buy tickets and don't pay for them, it's tough to take. Okay, thank you. Bill. Thank you for taking this evening to discuss Theater Squared. I'm Bill Schwab. I'm the vice president of Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks, and my wife is with me this evening, and she's on the board of Theater Squared. I moved to Fayetteville in 1976, and Judy moved here in 1974.
 I'm a community sociologist and have asked myself many times what makes Fayetteville such a special place. And it's simply because there is a sense of place in Fayetteville. And it didn't happen by accident. I've lived here for over 40 years and what I've seen is this council making decisions for the common good of our residents. And these decisions have had a profound impact on the quality of life of all of our residents.
 you have created public places where we can come together and create community. And the results are clear. We have been identified as one of the best places in the United States to live repeatedly over the last 10 years. And in the last few months, U.S. News & World Report has recognized us as the fifth best place in the United States to live, much to the chagrin of places like Seattle, Washington. So what are some of these decisions?
 Right after moving here, we created the Fayetteville Farmers Market. I was on CDBG back then, and we made strategic investments in bringing back the square. And when I come to the square on Saturday, I look across everyone on the square, and I am struck by the diversity. It's a place where everybody in this community is represented. It's a space where we create community. We go down the hill a couple blocks, and we see another important public investment.
 This council and the people of the city, and with the generosity of many others, made the Fayetteville Public Library a reality. It's been recognized as one of the top libraries in the nation and communities of under 250,000 people. It has exceeded all of our expectations and we're now in the process of expanding it. What do we need to say about the Walton Arts Center? A 25-year partnership between the university and the city. It revitalized Dixon Street,
 It helped us create an entertainment and a restaurant district. And if you've been in the new Walton Art Center expanded venue, I think there's only one word to describe it, wow. And finally, the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks, which I represent. I like to look at Theater Squared from another investment perspective and how it can grow our regional economy.
 We all recognize the importance of anchor businesses like Walmart and Tyson and J.B. Hunt in growing our economy, and we appreciate the contributions that the University of Arkansas and XNA and Research Industrial Parks make to the growth of our economy in this region. But to keep our competitive edge, we must attract knowledge and information-based businesses because this is the type of economic activity that will contribute most to our economy. There's a recent study by Mort
 What he found was that for every one high-tech job, one information and knowledge-based job, that job creates 5.2 jobs in the local economy. Compare that to manufacturing. One manufacturing job typically creates only 1.2 jobs in the local economy.
 So what we have to do is we have to create a community that can attract and keep the nation's best talent, the people who create and grow this new economy. And research has shown what these incredibly creative, well-educated, highly skilled people want. They want a diverse and tolerant population, and our city has demonstrated a commitment to that.
 It wants trusting and safe communities, and we have an extremely low crime rate. It wants lively street life, connected neighborhoods, walking and biking trails, which we've invested in. It wants excellent schools, and Fayetteville, Arkansas is known for its excellent schools. Quality medical care, think of Washington Regional Medical Center. High environmental quality in nearby state and national parks, just think Buffalo River. And at the top of every list,
 is a vibrant art scene. And the decision that the Walton Family Foundation made about not building a big venue up in Bentonville and investing those monies in Fayetteville, I think says much about the importance of being able, that Walmart has in being able to pull in and attract and keep creative and productive people. I would argue the arts and prosperity go hand in hand.
 So your decision tonight will shape the trajectory of our city for generations to come. Theatre Squared has a remarkable track record. In 10 short years, it's built a national reputation. It will directly benefit the residents of our city and our region. The building will be publicly owned by the city and the people of Fayetteville, so public monies aren't going to a private entity. So I would urge you once again,
 Support Theatre Squared because it's in our common good and it will help us build a stronger and more attractive community. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. John, you had something? Yeah. Okay. My name is Frank Sharp and I live at 2062 South Smokehouse Trail. You folks on the council are too young to remember when the city first made its first step in funding the Walton Arts Center. It was 1974.
 and the city board voted a resolution stating that any excess funds after paying off the Center for Continuing Education bonds would go toward an art center. So that was the very first money that the city put into the Walton Art Center. They didn't know it was the Walton Art Center then, they just knew they were going to start an art center. In the 1980s, I was on the city board, sitting where you all are now, and I'm so glad that I'm not there now.
 I don't envy sitting there. Well, actually, I was not sitting where you all are now because we were totally renovating this building. It was all torn up and we were meeting next door in the Chamber of Commerce offices. And we were facing the exactly same problems you are. How are we going to fund our police and fire, parks and all the other departments? And we decided that we needed to ask the taxpayers for a 1% sales tax.
 And we also pledged 1% of that one cent tax toward an art center. So now we had two sources of funding. We had the excess HMR, and we had a portion of the one cent. And so by the mid-'80s, we had about $5 million in the art center fund. Okay, Sam and Helen Walton...
 Also, that $5 million would be about worth $9 million today. Sam and Helen Walton donated Walmart stock to the university to build a center for the performing arts and business. And by the mid-'80s, that stock had appreciated, so they had about $5 million. So after quite a bit of heated discussion, the two entities decided to get together, each putting in $5 million, to build the Walton Arts Center.
 And we thought that 10 million was enough money to build the Arts Center and have an endowment. Unfortunately, we were wrong. Turned out when we got really busy and all, we did not have enough money to do it. And one of the smartest, luckiest things I ever did was put a woman named Billie Jo Starr on our first Arts Center committee.
 And so when it turned out we didn't have enough money, Billy got out, beat the Bushes, and raised eight or nine million more dollars in private money so that we could build the building and have our endowment. And I think that this building has really led to changing Dixon Street from a skid row. Joe Fennell, I think, will agree with that. You can remember the landing strip and the bullseye pub days.
 Anyway, it revitalized and formed what is now our entertainment district, an entertainment district that brings in people from all over the area, actually from all over the state. And that seed money that the city put, the $5 million, has brought in millions and millions and millions of dollars over the last 30 years, as well as improving our quality of life. It just really warms my heart to see acres of yellow school buses around the Walton Arts Center.
 And actually we're sort of the same situation now. We have the Walton Ayers have carried on the same charity of giving a challenge grant and they have pledged to raise private money like Billy Star did and now they're asking the city to be a partner in this venture and
 I notice that your Vision 2050 plan says Dixon Street, the downtown area, developed as a cultural entertainment district. There's one difference between what's happening now and what happened back in our committee. We had really done nothing but meet. Meet and dream, I guess you'd say, but we had really no experience and Theater Square has had, what, 10, 11 years of success and
 and an annual budget of $2 million. So I really urge you all to help them build a world-class theater in our town. Thanks. Thank you, Frank. Who else would like to address us? Hello, Mayor Jordan, council. My name is Bill Rogers. I live at 3539 West Earnhardt Drive over in the Salem Heights subdivision. And I'm really excited about this project. I moved here in 1991, right when the Walton Arts Center opened.
 And I saw what it has done over the years, the investment that you as a city made in that time has proven time and time again to be a very wise decision indeed. And the seed money that's been provided. I would have to echo Mr. Schwab and Mr. Sharp in their comments on that. I worked at Washington Regional for a number of years.
 And we recognized always that the health of a community is not just health care. It's quality of life. It's the arts. It's a strong library system. It's strong housing. And so this is another step in this direction. I was excited in 91 to see the opening of the new Walton Arts Center.
 And then about 15 years later, I was invited to Dr. Wade and Sarah Burnside's home and saw the opening of the first seeds planted, the actual starting of Theater Squared's organization. And having witnessed it from that time to today within a.
 10 to 12 short years, it's been amazing to see the growth, to see the business acumen that these individuals have. And from nothing to is a 12 year old, had someone who worked in a non-profit for an organization that soon. And that's strong. It's a wonderful boy.
 I think this is an opportunity for you all, for our city as a whole. I think this is something that we're trying to do. I'm confident in the business skills. I think this is an organization that is going to thrive and going to remain strong and grow strong and thrive and bring even more recognition to our city. There's a reason why we're always ranked in the top.
 cities of the United States. And this is one reason why we're also the wisdom that you all have in making these types of decisions. Thank you very much for the opportunity. Thank you, Bill. Who would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Alright, Don.
 Just want to bring the council's attention and for the public who may not have seen the packet, but on the third page of your staff memo for this agenda item, I do want to highlight
 This particular investment is in direct alignment with the 2016 Economic Development Plan adopted by the council. One of the focus areas was in arts and culture. There were two sections of that plan that the mayor references. The nonprofit arts and culture is a significant industry in northwest Arkansas. It generates over $45 million in total economic activity, includes nearly $31 million in nonprofit arts and cultural organizations.
 more than $14 million in event-related spending by their audiences, supporting nearly 1,500 full-time jobs. The action item as a part of this Arts and Culture Economic Development Plan is to support the further enhancement of the Fayetteville arts and cultural environment is critical.
 And secondly, in that action item, it speaks to the Fayetteville Cultural Arts District was established by the council in August of 2007 and encompassed cultural anchors in the downtown such as the Walton Arts Center, the Blair Public Library, and as well as multiple art galleries and a revitalized mill district.
 A comment highlighted is the defining characteristics of the Cultural Arts District will include a concentration of cultural activities and related activities, including those that support the fine arts, concert halls, theaters, and galleries. Much like Times Square is not one theater.
 It's creating an environment of the arts to be successful. And so I just want to reiterate that those are two action items that you had outlined in your adopted economic development plan that this is in direct alignment with. Okay. Adela. Well, Mayor, I'm delighted to lend my support to this fine, fine organization.
 think that I've always been very supportive and enjoyed them so much but in meeting with them which they have been so careful to meet with all of us on the council keep us informed about their direction and where they're going and what they're planning and I've appreciated that so much and I I've just felt stronger and stronger about their
 their being a part of this concentration of art, which we will have here in the center of Fayetteville.
 I think that what we've heard from our fine leaders, Dr. Schwab and Frank Sharp and all the others, and I appreciate so much your being willing to be here this evening and take your time to support this fine organization. Thank you.
 I think one of the things that I haven't heard enough about tonight is the fact that it is going to be such a community resource. I see it as being a place that, you know, I may meet with friends or even committee meetings. It's going to be open all the time, and it's a wonderful new venue for us to have, not just when we go to see a wonderful play. I'm also...
 so happy that they provide for our many students in our area the opportunity to see live theater. I know that that is, you know, it's not something that we should take for granted, and I think we're just blessed. It's a part of what makes us
 our quality of life and makes Fayetteville so special is that we can offer our public school children this kind of an opportunity at no expense. I think that,
 We need to see this in view of all of our discussion tonight. We have to remember this is a one-time expense and a one-time investment. I am so happy that we've been frugal with our money at the council. We could have easily not had the reserves that we've had,
 to be able to buy Kessler Mountain and the extra acreage at Gully Park, and now to make this fabulous investment, which just adds to our quality of life and also increases our sales tax. So it is just with a great deal of pleasure that I want to be a part of this public partnership.
 As Frank Sharp has shown us so well in the way he's laid out the last, how many ever years? 45 or something. It has shown for us what the public partnership actually provides for Fayetteville. It is a part of our structure as a city and part of what makes us who we are.
 Thank you so much for giving me this opportunity to support this fine organization. Thank you, Adele. Anybody else? Justin. Well, let me say that I, too, support Theater Square, and I support the arts, and I support the idea of the arts and the economic value. I'm just really trying to be comfortable with the business model that we're dealing with here.
 and I heard $400,000 as a number. I haven't heard too many details, seen the details of
 a five-year maintenance plan what that ongoing maintenance is going to cost i think i heard that it was being worked on i also know that kit is going to work out some sort of lease arrangement i would like to we already have the lease but this will be agreement for the investment right and you said it might come back if it's a cost share situation but that would be the only way it would come back to the council correct well that's the only way it would have to come back that's okay
 I would like to feel more comfortable with the wording of that document that Kidd is putting together, which is not done right now. When I think about RFS Bank and the commitment that they made,
 There's a part of me that says, well, that does lend some merit to it because they're loaning a lot of their money, but that's not necessarily public money. When I open an account with Arvest or when I choose to get a loan or apply for a loan or a mortgage with Arvest, that gives them the ability to invest that money and to do things like this. But Arvest has made a lot of bad loans in their lives, and they still sleep at night.
 if i'm going to invest three million dollars the public's money i just i re i need to feel comfortable this is not an issue with theater square this is an issue with i'm still not convinced that if we or what the cost of the extra baseball fields at our regional park and i want to get with the amp staff not the not the commission but the staff and say
 What's the economic impact if we can build two or three baseball fields at the regional park and we can get real tournaments here like they do in surrounding cities? What is that economic impact? What is the economic impact on several other things that we've got with other things? And I'm not going to bring the fire and police into it, too, but that's in the back of my mind as well. So I would wait.
 I wouldn't be able to vote for it tonight just because I think it's too new for us to throw a three million dollar Investment up of the public's money one time talk about it for a couple hours and then vote on it I think when you talk about the libraries, mr. Schwab brought up the library about up the Walton out there. Those were vote situations elections and judging by the people that I talked to if this went to an election it would lose and
 i'm not saying that's right or wrong but i'm saying that's my interpretation so at this very moment i couldn't feel comfortable with it it has nothing to do with martin i think they do a fantastic job at what they do but they're they're walking very very well right now and they're asking not just to jog but to run they're they're skipping several steps and it makes me a little uncomfortable in the business model it makes me a little uncomfortable in the city's commitment and wording on this document
 And I'm not convinced that there's other things that we could use this money for that would bring equal to or greater than investment. So if the council wants to vote on it tonight, I will vote. I will likely vote no. On a future night, I might vote for it. I still hope I'm wrong. Folks, I hope I'm dead wrong on this. I hope it thrives and 30 years from now I can tell my kids and grandkids, I guess, that the city had something to do with this.
 And if my son says, but you voted against it, I might say, yes, Mayor. I'll say, yes. He kind of wants to be, actually. You can talk to him about that. Talk him out of that one. But I can say, yes, I did vote against it that night, but it wasn't because I didn't believe in the people behind this project. And they proved that they were more than capable of doing what I hoped that they could do. And I'm comfortable with that.
 And I wish them the very best if I lose this vote. So that's all I have to say, Mayor. Okay. Allen. Justin, I was just curious. In order to give you that time to think about it, would voting on the 21st, the next council meeting, be something that would give you time to have discussions with the board? I don't know how long it would take to get with the group
 at the you know at the town center and talk about sports and talk about things like that so I can't answer that question I I don't know if I would think so but I don't want to promise that I also don't know what the hurry is for this maybe one but I didn't hear anybody say that this has to be done tonight maybe it does I I don't know the answer to that question it's it seems like a big project I don't know if waiting two weeks four weeks six however many weeks
 would necessarily cost anything. I read that a delay in maintenance or in construction would be a costly, I get that, but there was no timeframe there, and again, you guys can count the votes and say, no, we're going to go ahead and push it through and that's fine, but I guess I can't answer that, Alan, as far as, I appreciate the question, but I can't necessarily commit to that. Sarah.
 Thank you. I am looking at a copy of our Fayetteville First Economic Development Plan, and the number one strategic focus area that it outlines for us is arts and culture.
 And one of the first action items is support a cultural arts district development. I think we've seen tonight that we do a great job managing our city resources, but the reality is we do not have enough income to support all the great people in our cities. And the way to increase that...
 is through increasing sales tax revenue, which this theater will do by bringing people to come downtown, have dinner, go spend money at the theater, support all of those theater actors, the scene and set builders, and you know the costume shops and all those jobs there and then go out for drinks afterwards and hopefully pay a taxi to get home.
 So, you know, and then the other avenue we have is through increasing property tax revenue. And rather than raising taxes, we can create more value in our downtown area, more taxable value by growing our cultural arts district. And also, you know, we're going to be bringing it's about bringing more people to downtown and creating a vital space.
 downtown area that we all want to be and taking what is now a parking lot, a surface parking lot, an incredible underutilization of valuable urban land and turning it into a multi-million dollar cultural asset for our community. It's a great investment and it will pay back in the dividends that will allow us to support our community.
 our fire and police and all the other great people in our that work for our city. So I'm 100 percent on board with this and I hope that we can vote to support it tonight so that we can move forward to this. And let's make Fayetteville first. Thank you, Mark. I don't want to repeat everything about economic development, but I certainly support this as a driver of economic development. And there's another issue that we're resolving here as a person that hosts
 actors that have been in town for Theatre Squared. We're also putting affordable housing that is otherwise unavailable down in this area for artists. Artists that are coming in and making pay scale so that they can have a living
 to spend their money here. So I did want to point that out too. I do think this is an economic driver that will allow us to have long-term income that will support services such as police and fire. So I see this as a complementary investment. And the return on investment that we're getting
 And the short run and the long run is pretty incredible because we're going to have a facility that's always going to be here on city property that's owned by the city that we're paying pennies on the dollar for regardless who's managing it or operating it, although I do have this deep trust in Theater Square and the way that it is set up currently. And I see that they have...
 taken a very serious business development approach, probably the most impressive business development approach that I've ever seen in an arts organization. And I've been on boards of arts organizations. Not always the easiest thing to do because it's not that tangible. So I will be supporting this, but we also are offering housing to otherwise vulnerable
 that's otherwise unavailable to artists in our central core of our entertainment center. Okay. Anybody else? Nobody? Okay. Before we vote, I have worked on this for about two years, and I got interested in this after an agenda session of the city council, which was brought up Wednesday.
 Steve Clark brought the report of the Chamber of Commerce that said other cities was invested in economic development Anybody remember that day? Well, I sure do because that went on for about 45 minutes And during that time Mr. Clark said the city of Fed was not invested in economic development like they should now at that point in time I said on the United States Conference of Mayors Arts Council and
 I would hear all these mayors every year said, if you're not investing in the arts, you should, because it is the third best economic driver in the nation. And mayors that said that they brought forward the arts proposals, which was not exactly received tremendously well always, but they said when they went ahead and made the investments, it paid off. Now what we have here is this. We know that in the 80s that this city,
 Said we're going to invest half. It ended up they paid half and the university paid half. The Walton Arts Center we had. Somebody had to sit on the council and then somebody had to decide that that needed to be done. And I'm sure they all thought, well, we don't know if it'll work or not. But they had the courage to make that investment because they knew it would be an economic engine for this city.
 With this addition of Theater Squared, it will make this city, I believe, the best performing arts district in the region. It will be the second repertory theater in the state. We'll own the building. Kit's already talked about the deliverables he'll put in the contract. We'll take care of all this. Now...
 This council has to make a decision now. I brought it to you. I support this because I think it'll be successful and it will be an economic driver that will
 help the economic engine of this city drive up her tax base. And I want to remind the council that we spent $1.5 million on Kessler Mountain, didn't we? Took it out of reserves. We spent $500,000 on our economic development plan out of reserves. And we took reserve money from the parks reserve fund and then bought Gully Park. So this is, and that totals $3 million in the last year.
 two and a half years that we've invested from reserves. And you're seeing a correlation to this because you're seeing our sales tax revenue go up from 2.5 and 2.7 to 4.7. Will that last? I don't know. I don't have a crystal ball. But you can't let the city sit and just be stagnant. Now, that day, I remember very well that
 That it was brought up at that point in time, Councilmember Latour said, well, Mayor, if other cities invest in economic development, why aren't we? I don't know if you remember that, John, but I do. And that stuck. And this one move, we develop, we invest in economic development, we support the arts, and we'll be a cutting-edge arts district.
 in this region and in this state. And I think it's a good investment, and I think we need to support it. And I'm willing to take that risk like councils of the past have. I'm ready to vote. Sondra? We need a motion and a second. We need a motion and a second from someone. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Mark? I second. All right. Any other comments?
 SONIA, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? MARSH. YES. KINGTON. YES. PETTY. YES. KENNETT. NO. LATCH. YES. LATER. YES. LONG. YES. WRIGHT. YES. ALL RIGHT. THANK YOU ALL. ALL RIGHT. NOW, WE HAVE ONE MORE ITEM OF THE BUSINESS. I KNOW YOU THINK WE DON'T. NOW, WE'RE GOING TO SET UP A COMMITTEE TO TALK ABOUT THE WAGES. HOW DO YOU ALL WANT ME TO SET THIS COMMITTEE UP? THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING. I'M GOING TO TELL YOU ABOUT THE WAGES. I'M GOING TO TELL YOU ABOUT THE WAG
 Congratulations. Now, John, since you brought it up, what do you suggest? I want objectivity on the committee. I don't know. The city council should be represented. We're the funding agency. Okay? Tell me how you want to do it. I think a fireman should be on it. I think a policeman should be on it. But I want some independent people on it, and not necessarily from Fayetteville. People in Fayetteville are biased.
 Take somebody from outside Fayetteville and bring them in. Let them look at it professionally and objectively. I want that input in there also. I know that's going to run counter to some other folks. But we want it to be objective. We don't want it to be biased in favor of us, in favor of them, blah, blah, blah. I like the idea of six CPAs, three from Rogers, three from Springdale. They make a good decision.
 That's not a serious proposal. Okay. But objectivity is a serious proposal. Now it's getting late and I'm getting tired. All right. Try to get some objectivity on the committee. That's the goal. All right. Thank you. Now, I would like the other council members to weigh in on this because I'm going to have to put this committee together and I don't want to just suddenly make a decision and everybody go, what on earth are you thinking? What's your thoughts? Yes.
 Oh, Sarah Bunch has a thought. Thank you, Sarah. Sarah Bunch I think we have objective people in Fayetteville. I think we have plenty of objective people in Fayetteville to choose from to put on a committee like this. I love the idea of having, if we're going to do this, we have someone to represent the police, the fire.
 you know, financial minds, that sort of thing, but I could not support picking people from other cities to come in and manage our city. I just don't think I could get on board with that. So that's it. Chair Greg Musil? Chair Greg Musil? Matthew? Matthew Coyle? Well, first I'll say, you know, I just have a lot of trust that the effort to form the committee is going to be made in good faith and to make it objective. So I'm very pleased that we're doing it. I don't have a lot of confidence in the committee.
 concerns that I don't think would already be anticipated. I would hope that, you know, at least every ward is representative, even if it's not a committee of the whole, and I might even end up, if it were my decision, going that route. Well, let me just give you a little history of how the last one set up. We had four council members, one from each ward, but that's the way we did that one. And I would be fine with that. And then you could have a representative of fire and police if you want them on there, and a representative...
 Councilmember from each ward. Well, don't everybody? Mayor, I'd just like to add as the Chief of Staff of the City that if we're going to have a representative from police and fire, we have a representative from the merit employees as well. From the what? Merit employees. I totally agree with that. That's a good point. This is shaping up to be exciting.
 I'M SORRY. ALLEN, I'M SORRY. I WOULD JUST LIKE TO ADD THAT EVEN IF WE DO JUST HAVE ONE REPRESENTATIVE FOR EACH WARD OR HOWEVER IT IS SET UP AND HOWEVER I THINK YOU DECIDE TO SET IT UP, I'LL BE FINE WITH. BUT I WOULD PREFER THAT ANY COUNCILMEMBER THAT WOULD LIKE TO SIT AT THE TABLE AND BE A PART OF THE DISCUSSION WOULD BE ABSOLUTELY INVITED TO DO THAT. OH, ABSOLUTELY. AND THAT'S WHAT WE DID ON THE LAST ONE.
 four council members, but we had other council members that came in and weighed in on it. If I remember correctly, Don, you served on that with me. That's correct, ma'am. That was a fun committee. So what I would like for you all to do is to let me know who would be willing to serve or how do we need to do this? Somebody want to volunteer tonight? Oh, yes. Don't everybody put your hand up? We will serve. Yes, I know, John. We'll put you on there.
 We'll get you on there, John. Thank you. I'll do it. Okay. Mayor, I'll be happy to do Ward 1. All right, Dell. Anybody else? We've got to have two now. I'll be happy to. Okie dokie. I'll be happy to represent the board. Now you see how easy that was.
 We'll let the police pick who they want, let the firemen pick who they want. We'll figure out the married end of it. Now this is overtime pay for us, right? Yes. It's part of your retirement. Yes, it's part of your retirement. All right. Very good. That gives me some ideas. Yes. I would like to hear from the union representative what they, if they have any suggestions for how the committee should be comprised.
 I did like the representation of four council members one from each Ward I would also support having members of the community in the city involved into it I live in Ward 4 I'd like to be involved in it as the president of local so I will ask to represent us in that fashion I think that you have to
 If you can involve people in the community, I think that would be important. I do think that you need to involve someone from the HR department if that's not a person from the civilian side or the employee senate. You'll have to explain that one to me. What do you mean the HR side? I think that's what Don's referring to in his group.
 Actually, I'm referring to someone from the employee senate to be representing their employees. I do think you have to have individuals who have worked on this study, so our HR director, our senior HR person, Paul as a finance person, even if they're nonvoting members but representatives on the committee, and I certainly think the mayor's office should have a representative. I got a direction.
 If the members of the council set the direction at that point with insight from employees in that group and then, like I said, looking at the finances of the city and reviewing those in that process. Okay. Anything you want to ask? Thank you. All right. Allen. I just, last quick comment. I like Don's comment. Just a moment ago, a representative from the mayor's office, and I think Don would be an
 representative having a background in HR and knowing I think probably the study that was just done inside and out probably better than anyone in this room I don't I just think Don would be a great person to share his expertise all right sir I see we have another member of the force that would like to speak and I'm Leonard graves with police department yes in support of that committee be informed I was a part of that
 uh forming crew on the police side the last time that that committee was very beneficial because that been that committee we located if you remember down various some discrepancies on that last report coming from just a group members of laymen also looking into those numbers so i would say our organization be in full support of that okay so leonard who's going to serve from the fop let me i'll have to get back with you on that one okay well let me know i'm good i'm good
 Let me know the next day or two, though. All right. All right. Anything else? Thank you all. That helps me very much. Okay. Any announcements? Yes, Mayor. We've got to come on. I'll let Jeremy start.
 This is my last full City Council meeting tonight after 14 years of coming here for planning commission and City Council meetings. I want to say thank you all and those who have sat in the chairs before you, the Nancy Allens, Brenda Boudreaux, Swifty Reynolds, Bobby Farrells of the world that I've had a privilege to work with and you all as well. I certainly respect and admire what you do. Sondra, your work as well, and Kit, your office.
 I've always had a lot of respect for elected officials and admire what you do. So I want to say thank you. And I will still live in Fayetteville. And maybe I'll be standing there speaking next time. So I appreciate that. CHRIS RODGERS- Justin? JUSTIN STEILER JR.: I've actually prepared a resolution that will force Jeremy to stay in his current job. CHRIS RODGERS- The rest of his life? JUSTIN STEILER JR.: Yes. Or until he goes completely crazy.
 But no, obviously I'm not going to do that. But just I'm only speaking for myself, but you were a tremendous asset. So thank you very, very much for what you did. And best of luck in your future endeavors. Happy for you. Chair Greg Musil, Any other announcements? I will. Chair Greg Musil, I have other announcements, and there's no one that will miss him more than me. I can assure you that. He is an incredibly talented individual.
 The silver lining in that cloud is that we're going to get to continue to work with him in his new role here at the city. And so two of my favorites now are up north with Karen Minkle and Jeremy. And so you've had a great impact, and thank you for sharing your talent.
 THE ANNOUNCEMENTS, WE HAVE A COUPLE OF VERY IMPORTANT PUBLIC MEETINGS COMING UP THIS WEEK. THURSDAY, THE 9th, AT 530 P.M. AT THE SENIOR CENTER IS THE WALKER PARK MASTER PLAN.
 meeting that the Parks and Recreation Department will be hosting. It's at 530. If you would like to provide input to the Walker Park Master Plan, we are really interested in hearing your thoughts. Another extremely important meeting, and you can hit both because of the way that the second meeting is set up, the Arkansas Highway Transportation Department on Thursday between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. at Asbell Elementary, which is at 1500 North Sang,
 is having a public open house to review the Weddington I-49 interchange designs. It's extremely important that our citizens provide the feedback, our elected officials. This
 pedestrian bridge and the things that you all talked about in that design as being important are there, particularly for our Ward 4 Council members, since this directly impacts a significant part of your wards. But that's 4 to 7 Thursday at Asbell Elementary School, 1500 North Sang.
 I also just want to remind we have a fairly well-used street that is currently closed at Stadium Drive. That road is closed. It closed on February 24th and will be closed until May the 10th.
 There are significant street improvements taking place being done by the University of Arkansas. You can go north onto Stadium Drive, but you're not allowed to go south on Stadium Drive. So either plan for the delays or consider alternative routes in that area between now and May the 10th. May the 10th is graduation day, is the day it plans to reopen.
 And then I just want to remind citizens, particularly in light of last night's severe weather and an actual tornado warning in our city for the first time in a long time, that the city does have a sign up for alerts on our city website. If you go to www.fayetteville-ar.gov, click on alerts and notifications, and you can sign up for the Code Red emergency alerts
 free of charge paid for by your council already and the budget to be aware of significant severe weather and we are getting into that season so it's a benefit you should be utilizing okay just and just a quick announcement not just for the Ward three residents but anyone in the city or a traveling on Mission Boulevard there is a when you talk about delays
 There is a massive delay. Chair Greg Musil. Sorry, Justin, I forgot that one. No, no, no, that's fine. But three of us, I think, were in it tonight. And at the intersection of Mission and Old Wire, which is going to be a fantastic project when it's finished, unfortunately now it is resulting in quite a bit of delays along the route school area all the way up towards North Street and all the way down Old Wire. So I would suggest.
 to take another route unless you want to be stuck in one lane traffic of just waiting until the next lane is done. I asked city staff and the highway department when the stoplight would actually begin working. They're hoping within the next one to two weeks that that will be completed, but I just would like to say to everyone, please, if you can avoid that area, please do, and it will help everyone in the Mission and Old Wire area. Thank you.
 Yes, earlier this week Jeremy Pate told me that if I hadn't went through that intersection in a while I needed to drive through there and see how well it was going. It was his parting joke, Lionel. I thought it was his last laugh at the mayor. I had a young man detour me to a road that I couldn't get out on, which I proceeded to sit there about 15 or 20 minutes. After I got back to the office I almost called myself and complained.
 Anyways, any other announcements? All right. We have our pokey. Pokey. I don't have them in front of me either, Alderman Kenyon, but they are on the city's website. If you go to, again, www.fayetteville.jar.gov, and you can find them there on the site. Yeah, look at that. There it is.
 Oh, you want me to read it? March 18th, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., Saturday. Owl Creek School and Happy Hollow Road. Good? See you there. See you there. All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned. Good work.