I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of March 6, 2018. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Here. Pinion? Here. Eddy? Tennant? Here. Dutch? Here. Latour? Here. Smith? Here. Ray? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor Jordan, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I point the witness to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. City Council presentations, Paul has the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report's going to be on January, which is period one in the new fiscal year. Those would be sales taxes collected for the month of December, which is the last piece of revenue information we get. So there's not a lot of trend data at this point in time, so most of my comparisons are going to be compared to last year. Let's talk a little about the general fund. As reported to you before, the general fund sales tax was up 5.7% compared to prior year. That's very, very strong and it's a good start for the year for us. Licenses and permits were up. We're up a bit, so we were up about $300,000 compared to last year for January. January last year wasn't a particularly strong year, though, so I'm very happy with the revenues received and the general fund. Street fund turnbacks were up about 2% during the month of January. That's about $13,000 in total. So we're off to a good start there. Again, we get turned back. This was generally for the motor fuel tax turned back from the state. Parking fund, parking fund was down a little bit. It was down about 2.4%. That equated to about $8,000 compared to last year. So I'm not concerned about that at this point of time either. Okay. Parks Development Fund, HMR taxes were up roughly 6% for the period, so we started out pretty strong in that area also. As far as water and sewer is concerned, the revenues, the fees were up about 5.1% for water and sewer compared to prior year. Essentially, that's showing growth in that area. Remember, in water and sewer, in our expenditures, we've got a lot of capital programmed into that budget. We've got over $26 million in the capital, so we're going to see a lot of expenditures at this point in time. Remember that money is in the balance of reserves at this point in time, but we're going to see a lot of capital expenditures in the water and sewer fund for this fiscal year. Trash and recycling, essentially we're pretty flat in trash and recycling compared to revenue last year. Airport fund, airport sales were up almost 20% in fuel sales for the period compared to last year. So we're off to a pretty good start there. All in all, revenues were up in almost every one of the operating funds and enterprise funds. So we're off to a good start for this year. We hope it continues, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Anyone? Good. Thank you, Paul. Next order of business, I would like to move an item from new business C3, the Rolling Hills rezoning, to before we get to the consent agenda. I will need a motion in a second to do that. We need a motion to suspend the rules in order to adjust your agenda. Mark. I move that we remove item C3 from the agenda due to an incomplete application and risk of litigation and send it back to the, is that what I do? Well, first we've got to get it off the. We've got to get it off new business and get over to where we need to go. That's what I'm doing. Okay. Do we have Adele? I second that. Okay. All right. So I'm going to please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Munch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, thank you all. The reason we have moved this to before consent agenda, we're going to make a recommendation to send it back to the planning commission, and I think Kit will explain that, and we will take it from there. First off, Mayor, I want to thank you for calling this to my attention. I know it was called to your attention by the neighbors out there, and I think they should be congratulated for looking very closely at this situation. When you asked me to take a look at the application, I did notice that there were some problems with that, and then I went further and looked at the underlying ordinance from the Unified Development Code that talks about how we are going to—how we—what procedure we use when a private party wants to rezone their property. And one of the three things that was required under that petition was a statement explaining why the proposed changes will not conflict with the surrounding land uses. And that had not been addressed in this particular rezoning petition, the application, or letter. And so I felt like at this point in time there was not an effective solution. an application that went to the Planning Commission that really should not have been heard by the Planning Commission. And at this point in time, I would like you, as the City Council, to send it back to the Planning Commission to be heard if and when a proper application with that information has been supplied by the applicant. Okay. Okay, Adele. I so move. Justin. Second. Okay. So, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Funch? Yes. McTier? Yes. Min? Yes. Wright? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Back to the Planning Commission it goes. All right, moving along to the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the February 20, 2018 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $11,198, recognizing Hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. Number three. A resolution authorized acceptance of a 2017-2018 state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force. Any amount of $54,693.47 and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive grant funds. Number four. a resolution to approve amendment number four to the contract with environmental consulting operations incorporated in the amount of sixty one thousand eight hundred and seventy two dollars for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2018. number five a resolution award rfp 17-07 and to authorize the mayor to sign a one-year contract with Ecos connect LLC with an option to renew for up to four additional one year terms in the amount of $12,000 per year for backflow tracking services. Number six, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the water main installation cost share agreement with garden district townhomes LLC to provide for reimbursement of the cost of materials for installing to fire hybrids in the amount of $5,121.60. Number seven, a resolution authorized the purchase of the Bobcat E45 excavator with attachments from Bobcat Company of West Fargo, North Dakota in the amount of $69,857.30 presented to a National Joint Powers Alliance drop-in purchasing agreement used by the Transportation Services Department. Number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of three police package Chevrolet Tahoe's from superior automotive group sign on springs and total amount $95,589 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the police department. Number nine, a resolution authorized purchase of 2018 Dodge Ram 1500 four wheel drive regular cab from Lewis automotive group. of federal arkansas in the amount of twenty one thousand one hundred thirty one dollars pursuant to a state procurement contract used by facilities management division number ten a resolution to prove the purchase of a 2018 new holland rb 450 4x5 drive hay baler from williams tractor federal any amount of thirty thousand two hundred forty one dollars percent to a national joint powers alliance cooperative purchasing contract used by the wastewater treatment division Number 11, a resolution authorizes the purchase of a Toyota Prius hybrid from Steve Landers of Rogers, Arkansas, in the amount of $23,108, pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Fleet Division and to approve the budget adjustment. Number 12, a resolution to repeal resolution... Number 33-17, to authorize the purchase of a 2018 Elgin Crosswind Street Sweeper from Environmental Products Mid-South of Memphis, Tennessee in the amount of $251,739.20. Pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Co-Octane Purchasing Contract used by the Transportation Services Department. And number 13. a resolution authorized mayor jordan signed a contract to switch your construction incorporated any amount of three million eight hundred ninety one thousand three hundred seventy two dollars and fifty five cents for the construction of old wire road protected bike lane and sidewalk project to approve the project attendance in the amount of 194 000 and to approve a budget adjustment i'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as red sarah so moves mark i'll second that we have a motion to second to accept the consent agenda as red sondra would you please Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Hutch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Nance? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, number one. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-6034 for approximately 4.40 acres located at 2468 North Crossover Road from RSF 2, residential single family, two units per acre to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sarah? So moved. Do we have a second? I'll second it. okay we have the motion second to go to third and finally senator would you please call the row marsh yes union yes eddie yes tenant yes yes yes yes yes right yes an ordinance to reason on that property described in reasoning petition rzn 17-1634 for approximately 4.4 acres located at 2468 north crossover road From RFS 2, residential single family, two units per acre, to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. Do you have anything on this? No, Mayor. We don't have anything additional to add. We're happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay. Does the applicant wish to make a statement to the council? Good evening. My name is Jerry Jones. Mr. Mayor, council members, we believe... that it has been shown that Crossover Road north of Township is no longer a residential area. As I have pointed out several times, no houses have been built on Crossover Road since 1982. Fayetteville continues to grow and with it comes more traffic. Thank goodness to the City of Fayetteville and State of Arkansas partnered with, thank goodness that the City of Fayetteville and State of Arkansas partnered to widen Crossover Road when they did. With 21,000 cars using crossover, we believe that the zoning of Neighborhood Service Limited will have the least impact on traffic because of the limited number of buildings that can be built on the three acres we're proposing. I believe that this is all the land that can be built, that it can be built on from Township all the way out to our road. With one exception, our land touches Mr. John Brown's land to the north, which is zoned RO. His land backs up to Candlewood, and at any time, he could put in a commercial building. Now, what does that impact? Candlewood neighbors with a fence, and me, pardon me just one moment, it says, who does that impact? It impacts Candlewood neighbors that have a fence, and with me, only a property line between me and Mr. Brown. Neighborhood services, we feel like, is a fair request which restricts building sites and heights. building sizes and heights to a degree. We all know that last year the council approved the Rolling Hills project to rezone 11 acres from RSF 4 to Neighborhood Services General. Why? Because we felt like they probably would want to attract several buildings with this new zoning. Plus, at some point... which I hope will go in, that we can get a connection from Crossover all the way through on Rolling Hills Drive. But our three acres are pale in comparison to what that whole project is. Our projects are generally the same. The only difference is in size. At yesterday's meeting on our property, we heard a lot of hypothetical scenarios. All I can say to that is that this property has been up for sale and a hot topping for hot talking point for many years if any serious buyer developer or contractor has any interest they can still come forth changing the zoning will not prevent anyone from building a home on this property finally the city staff and planning commission both support this rezone will you accept this recommendation accept their recommendation A lot of time and effort has gone into finding a zone that will work for Linwood Estates. We believe this is a fair and the right thing to do. Thank you. Any questions, Mayor? Okay, so any questions for Mr. Jones from the council? All right, thank you. Thank you. Now, we're going to open it up for public comment. Now, here's the rules. Everybody gets one time at the mic. unless the council member you get one time to Mike you have a five minute time limit unless council member ask you questions or brings you back for any further discussion keep your comments directed to me don't engage council member anybody out in the public and stay on topic what the topic is is the rezoning to this piece of property in this area okay is everybody got it and please give us your name and address Hello, my name is Paul Henry. I live at 2885 East Township. Hello again. Thank you for taking the time yesterday to come out and look at the area of concern. I think Mr. Tennant was safe after almost being rear-ended. I came again to raise my concerns for the proposed rezoning request. The City of Fayetteville 2030 plan encourages this area to be residential. This zone request has lofty ideas of complementing the area with walkable spaces and beautiful trees. Unfortunately, I don't think it's walkable because of the location, as we've talked about the safety issues, and the trees would all have to be removed to have any type of buildings on this. We can say safety is our biggest concern because 265 runs very fast and very hot at different This concern is compounded when you have a business which is dependent on traffic. I've talked about spot zoning. The RO is immediately north. Now we're having a request to change residential to something else, and I'm concerned of the trickle-down impact on the rest of the property in that area. Does the city have needs for new zoning in this area? My points of concern all come from... A handout Mr. Williams had provided about valid consideration for rezoning. I believe half of the concerns that I brought out were on that topic. Thank you. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address this? I have a video that I put together I'd like to show to give an overview of the situation if you didn't get to come out. How long is it? It's a minute. Okay. I know. It's not going to be long. I'm sorry. Did you... Name and address, please. Ted Runnels. It's 2396. And we are affected by that when he said weren't, because at the end, the property goes back there. Okay. We need a motion and a second from the council to allow this video. Justin. I move to approve the citizen presentation. Okay. Adela. I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to allow the presentation. Senator, would you please call the roll? marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay all right play the video okay turn up the volume there's some Well, it's here showing some of the problems with it and the U-turns. They're doing them in driveways. They're making their own. Here's the safety issues. Our kids are walking home from school having to go through these areas, and that's in there, and it's already pretty hectic. There are some crossing guards, but that's the property in question, and there's one of the lines. And these U-turns are coming with more turn-ins available to get in these areas that they're going. And just when Justin, they were pulling in to look at this, it showed you some of the slowing of traffic. Here's a possible entrance that's in the back of Kenwood that Dad was assured he could use as an entrance. And we are open to any... possible development ideas where he can get not be locked into what he's locked in. But on the other portion is when the city council came out yesterday, I thought it was appropriate. Justin's tenant was pulling in and of course the halting a honk and flying around, I thought that was a good indicator of what will come with more turn-ins. And that could have very easily, I mean, it was a pretty tight escape on that. And that's not even the tightest, I mean, that's not even the most traffic that's coming in the mornings. It's twice as bad. But that's all I have to say. Okay. But thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Brenda Gullet and I live at 2709 North Kendallwood Drive. Mayor and Council thank you for your service first of all. I know you probably heard it all but I I'm really mostly concerned about this decision because of public safety. I'm concerned about our homes, of course, and the value I think everybody is. It's a sacred space where everyone lives, even if it's an humble abode. But the traffic there is absolutely unbelievable. And we've got two of our outstanding city schools there. And I walk in the morning several times a week with friends, one from Covington and one who actually lives on Township. Even at that time of the morning for adults, it's very, very difficult to cross over township. And we stay on this side. We don't get over on the other side. It's very, very challenging. I have a responsibility on Wednesday afternoons at my church. If I leave my home within a five-minute difference, it's a 20-minute difference in when I'm able to finally get to where I'm going because I'm stopped there at that light that backs all the way up. And I know you all have said that Candlewood is not a through street, but this would probably surprise you if you lived there in the mornings. Oh. We have cars, the carpool line can go all the way across Township, all the way down to the third house on Candlewood with people trying to get in there and take their children to school. So it's really, really quite a backlog. And I know if you're familiar with the new, fairly new dental office that's up right close to the neighborhood market, it's going to be the same kind of concept that would be allowed, I think, with this rezoning. It's Beavers and Broomfields. If you try to go there, which I'm one of their patients, you cannot even get out there even at this time and go back to the left toward my house. I have to go up to Mission, turn around, and get back in the other direction. So right there at that intersection of Township and Crossover is a legal U-turn, and it's somewhat at the bottom of the hill. So unless you're just there on a regular basis, it's hard to envision. how dangerous that would be if there is an exacerbation of traffic and business and all that sort of thing. So that is really the main thing that I would prevail upon you to, if you, I know it's on the third and final reading, but if you would just maybe consider postponing this. because I think you have heard some possible information that might change this situation and keep it more residential. I know you're going to make your best decision. And those of you who were able to come out yesterday, I cannot thank you enough. I know you have a hard job, and we appreciate that. And thank you for this time. Thank you, Brenda. Okay, who else would like to address us? Yeah, come on up. First of all, thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. My name is Bob Gullet and I live in the Candlewood subdivision. First of all, I would like to share a departmental correspondence which probably many of you have received. This was developed by our own city attorney, Mr. Kit Williams, who was sent to Mayor Jordan and the city council regarding rezoning appeal considerations. and it was sent out so that the members would know what to take into account if you considered whether or not to change or rezone something. In the conclusion, when summarizing state law and Arkansas Supreme Court decisions, I have advised the city council for over a dozen years that probably, quote, the most important factor and underlying reason to have zoning in the first place is to promote compatibility among neighboring parcels. I've also provided this summary of legally sanctioned rezoning considerations. The summary, number one, compatibility with adjacent zones, avoid spot zoning. Number two, public opposition that is both logical and reasonable. Number three, traffic, congestion and safety. Can you imagine that? how you would feel if you received a phone call that your child or grandchild had been injured in a car wreck. Township and Crossover is a terrible intersection. If that's not enough for you, go up to Mission and Crossover. The traffic there is absolutely horrendous. Think of the school children when you make your decision on how you want to vote on this. You've seen the video. It shows the school children. The people are stacked up coming in and out with their children. at 7.30 to 8 o'clock time. Please consider that as you make your decision. Next is noise. It will not be a neighborhood area any longer. Next is litter. When you have more people, you're going to have more litter. Appropriate and best use of the land. There are other people that may want to use this for homes, and that's what we would like to have. Next, as cities need or lack of need for more land to be zoned as requested, there's plenty of places to put businesses like this in this city. And last, 2030 plan objectives. This was designated as a residential neighborhood in the 2030 plan. And I would like for you to consider all of these. I'm sure you have a copy of it, and I'm sure that all of you are familiar with this. But in any event, the most important thing that I can ask you to think about is the safety of the schoolchildren at congested times. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, council, my name is Ted Wade. I live at 2863 East Township, which is located just south of the rezoning project. One of the things that I mentioned the last time I spoke, and I just want to make sure it gets tallied back on there again, is the concern that we have in our neighborhood relative to the turnarounds. We have a private drive now that people do use when they try to make the turnaround to get back up on 265 to continue south. Because right now, as you well know, they can only turn right and then go down, make a U-turn, come back. So today what they do, they turn onto our private drive and then back out onto 265 or on Township, excuse me, to get on 265. That puts us in a situation that I mentioned last time about, you know, you put up a private drive sign. Obviously, that doesn't stop people. What are we forced to do at that point in time to protect our property that, again, is maintained by the Property Owners Association? And also the concern of cars backing on there with the traffic increasing that you also put additional people at risk as well as the children that are passing through going down to the school zone. So one of the things I would ask you to consider in that is that we're going to be in a situation as a neighborhood to put up a gate to basically keep people from doing the turnaround process and coming through our neighborhood. And I'd like you also to consider that because really, at the end of the day, that's not what we want to do in our little area there on the south side. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Is there another one? Dr. Hayes, come on up. I'm J.B. Hayes. I live at 2595 Firewood Drive, which is real close to this property. Jerry Jones is a friend of mine. He's been working on this for about 11 or 12 years to get it where he can use it for something that is satisfactory. And I support what he is requesting. Thank you. All right. Thank you, J.B. Who else would like to address this? Anybody now? Okay, I'm going right back to the council. All right, let's get going here. All right, Justin. I have a couple of questions for staff, Mayor. Sure. Just for the record and for people in attendance, we have said before that we don't approve spot zoning. What is the city's answer to the question of this is spot zoning? What is the difference here that allows the city to – want to approve this, the neighborhood limited zone? I think you'd be looking at two factors. One, the character and size of the parcel itself and the character of the street and the adjacent parcels and the requested zoning and the... Secondly, there have been many court cases where if you find it in conformance with your comprehensive plan, it by nature isn't spot zoning. Now, I'm not pretending that that's an Arkansas case, but in other states, that's frequently the case. And in this case, it is designated residential neighborhood zoning. and it specifically talks about appropriate scale development. It specifically talks about mixed-use development, and the 2030 plan definitely is trying to move away in an appropriate fashion towards more mixed-use development and substituting the scale or the size of the structure rather than rigid separation of uses. You can reduce trips, you can promote less driving by doing so. So this is one of the districts that tries to do that. It limits, severely limits the building size and the location of the building and the location of the parking and allows a broader range of uses. My second question is about the zoning itself. You brought up size of the building. We talked last time about the big difference between limited and general is the difference between a 3,000-square-foot building maximum and an 8,000-square-foot building maximum. But the height limit of the buildings are the same in both general and limited, correct? Yes, sir. So one of the problems that... that I think this has. There are some people who just say, don't want any retail, period. There are some who say, do you have a zoning that allows for small retail units, whether it's 3,000 or less, But the height limitation is not three story. You heard Ms. Gullet. I've heard several people say what is really dreaded in this spot is something similar to that dentist's office that is down the street towards the neighborhood market. There's a three story large building, which I don't know what the square footage is, but it is a very tall building. And it's... And regardless of getting in and out of it and the difficulties and all that, I'm not really talking about that, but when I think about picking up that building and moving it there, it begs the question. There's no zoning anywhere that you could allow the same size or smaller square foot buildings, even in a mixed use stance, but with lower height. There's nothing like that on the books that we have. No, I also think you have a limitation here that you can always have theoretical scenarios or theoretical maximum. But I think we want to look at the probability of that happening. If you have a limitation of 3,000 square foot of office use, are you really going to get three stories? Now, I see your point on that. I really just wanted to know. if there was anything that, that, Shrunk even even less than three thousand square But even if it was multiple smaller buildings if the height limitation was very low Then you know you might not see it from the neighborhood You might not hear it as much from the neighborhood there might not be as much behind it I mean, there's there's always fear of trash dumpsters. There's always fear of all these things So taking the traffic part away for a second. I just wanted to talk about the height restrictions So you answered them right? Thank you Who else? I have a question for Garner as well. You know, we were talking about the height limits. The property to the north of this is zoned RO. What are the height limits on that property? The same. The same? Yes. And the existing is only three stories too. So the height limit stays the same regardless. Okay. All right. Thank you. Anybody else? You say the existing zoning is three stories? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Sarah, you're still on the – are you – okay. All right. Anybody else? Oh. I want to make one question. Sure. It's not really a question. I was going to wait for final comments. We're there. I mean, we're on the final reading here. I want to jump ahead. No, well, I'm... We've sort of dominated the last few weeks anyway. So this has been an interesting one, and it always is an interesting one when this particular plot comes up. There's a lot of people who, over the years I've talked to about it, and my mind really has never changed. I think that in a perfect world, this should be residential. The only way this is residential successfully is if there's another way in or out of it, because nobody is going to build a house on that spot where you have to go right in and right out on 265. It's just not going to happen. They are absolutely right. I almost got in a wreck. pulling into the council tour yesterday because i thought well i'll just take a u-turn here and i'll pull right in and i i if the chief is here i did everything legally i i i my blinker was on i i did everything right i wasn't speeding i turned around got in the lane turned my blinker on slowed down and just the just the slowing down i think angered people and I started getting honked at and was very close. It was a new car too. It had really been bad. And so I turned, I turned in and, um, uh, that, that's going to be a real problem. And so I feel for Mr. Jones in this case, because he's never going to sell a residential unless he gets another way in or out of that, which, uh, ted runnels talked about their family owns the house behind it he talked about in his video it was quick but there is another way in to that area through firewood in the candlewood area there's a there's a road in there that is not a road now but it is a right-of-way that could in theory be a connection into that and then what you could have would be taking what is it candlewood turning it around and having houses back up to 265 because it's been proven by candlewood that that homes will be built along 265. As a matter of fact, the houses that are currently in Candlewood that back up to 265, that have a wall between them and 265, have been there for years, and they're actually closer to 265 because I walked it than a house probably would be in Mr. Jones' land if it was residential and if it could be developed with houses like that. What Ted Reynolds has talked about is taking the four acres behind his property and possibly adding that into the current property zoning in question and connecting it to that and having an entrance or an exit in. I would think if that happens, you would be able to have a neighborhood zoning. zoning there the current zoning would work and then you would have I believe a very marketable area but as it stands right now Mr. Jones's property is on an island and he will never sell it as a residential but I'm not here to necessarily do something just so he can sell something but I do think we need to be fair about it and I do think we need to look at all the options what I heard yesterday in the meeting or in the tour was some development ideas, was some possible land being discussed behind the Runnels property, It is absolutely true that the Runnels family has been through a lot lately via their health issues and a loss of one of the parents. And I know that now there's a clear path for them to maybe do something with that land that wasn't there before. And I understand that. I have aging parents as well, and I know sometimes it's difficult to talk about what's going to happen to the family land. But I do believe that there's some possibility of conversation there. The problem where I am right now is I would love to be able to hold this for a little while until such time that the developers that were there yesterday, Mr. Reynolds and Mr. Jones, could get together and discuss. what possible ways to do this they would need the city's help because even though there's a right-of-way there there's no road there so there's a there's an issue there but that solves our traffic in and out problem with the candlewood firewood drive extension into this into this back land it's hard to imagine how many acres are behind there it doesn't seem possible but there's a lot So I would love to do that. The other part of me says, but if you do that, then you're telling this landowner, you've been trying to sell this for a decade or more. We denied you a couple of years ago or whenever that last time was that he came forward. I thought then that he would probably end up selling row houses or some sort of property. of land that doesn't necessarily need a yard and people that don't really care about being on a busy street, similar to what's across from the Boys and Girls Club, similar to what's on Zion. Those are selling like crazy. I thought, that's what's going to happen here. Well, here we are a couple years later, and it hasn't happened. And I believe the main reason it hasn't happened is because of egress and ingress off 265. I've talked to a couple of very prominent retail developers who buy land specifically to sell to retail establishments. And they told me, both of them, individually, it doesn't matter what you zone it. It doesn't matter if you zone it retail, commercial, or whatever. If that's the only way in and out of there, nobody's going to buy it for retail either because – It's hard enough to make a restaurant work. It's hard enough to get people to go to a coffee shop. It's hard enough to make people go to get their nails done or whatever. But if you make it difficult to get in and out, and there was a gentleman there yesterday that had a speed gun, his son's pitching speed gun. Somebody was going 62 on 265 just at the random time he did it. And the posted speed limit is not 60, and it's not anywhere close. So... we could put somebody there all day long with a speed gun and and tickets that's not going to stop people from you know almost running into me going 60 miles an hour whatever it's probably not going to sell until there's another way in and out of there That could be when that corner piece gets sold, which we never know. That may never happen. That family may stay in that corner piece forever, and they may never sell it. So I'm torn here between what I think is the best rezoning for that property, which I still think needs to be residential with some way in and out of it from the back, but then I'm also torn that I've sat up here for years and said, it's tough for me to deny somebody the right to sell their land and if there's a way for them to do it they have the right to sell their land we can't stop them he can put a million dollars an acre on it if he wants that's his right just because he doesn't sell it it doesn't really matter he can change the price if he wants to change the price um so i honestly this is this is one of those where i am torn between those two things respect for an individual that is not going to sell his property i don't really think he'll be able to sell it retail wise either but also when Mr. Gullet stood up there and read the reasons not to rezone it, just about every one of them fit. And that's a real, real difficult thing for me to think about. And I honestly, I'm not positive what I would, I would rather table it and let them talk, let them see if there was any possibility, let them get with the city to see if that road could be built. It's a very, very short little spot right there in Candlewood that can connect Firewood to the back of this and open up the whole place where 265 is irrelevant. But honestly, you know, tabling it right now, I don't even know what the council's thoughts are on that. I haven't made a motion, and I may or may not. But I don't think that's the right zoning right now to take it to something that I just don't think it's correct to do it. But I also feel really, really strongly that, man, I wish there was another zoning that we could do that limited some of this. I'll let other people talk, but... But I appreciate everybody's input on this because it's important. Okay. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, you know, I'd defer to the rest of the council if we wanted to table if there's another option to work out. And I really appreciate everything Alderman Tennant just said. Where I'm at on it, I'm prepared to support the request that's before us. There were two issues that I was really thinking through. to come to my decision. And the first was compatibility, and the second was traffic. When it comes to compatibility, I'm looking at 265, I'm looking at the map up there, and even if this was a straight commercial project, the farm to the east is a huge buffer relative to the homes, the majority of homes that are already there. So that's the first thing. The second thing is I don't think like multifamily like NSL allows, very, very small scale multifamily is fundamentally incompatible with other types of residential neighborhoods. And I think Neighborhood Services Limited does a supreme job of addressing what might make multifamily incompatible with other types of residences. It's a new code, it's one that hasn't been used very much, but its intent was to address those concerns that we saw that were legitimate, that were coming about with our old codes. On the issue of height, which I think also goes to compatibility, the fact that there's three stories allowed now, that all the neighborhoods around it allow three stories, I think that means the heights are compatible. And even though there may not be three-story buildings whenever we get 300 feet off of a township or into one of the subdivisions or a few feet off a crossover, crossover is a wide road. It's more than 100 feet wide and a three-story building next to a crossover, I think it's very appropriate. I don't expect that to happen. I don't think the development metrics are there for that kind of development intensity. But in terms of, strictly in terms of compatibility, I think a three story is such a major road that falls back to the heights that we see in the current subdivisions is the normal way for intensity on a corridor to fall off as we get into residential neighborhoods. The issue of traffic I think is a lot more sticky. Obviously this land hasn't been built up and traffic has gotten worse anyway. Traffic is horrendous. I agree with all the comments about how bad traffic is there right now during rush hour, and especially at Mission and Crossover during rush hour. But I think that's a function of... the way we've designed our city in the past. Everybody has to live in one neighborhood and work or go to a destination in another place in town. We've all got to use the same road to get there at the same time. And traffic is going to get even worse than it is today. It's mostly a function of population growth and people are moving here, more than 30 people a week to Northwest Arkansas. And Fayetteville is getting its share of those people. those people mean more cars on the road. So even if this never gets built, I think traffic is gonna get a lot worse. And if it does get built, if there's a salon there or some other kind of retail store or whatever it might be, and it means that a couple of hundred people every day have to drive just a little bit shorter distance to get to where they're going, relatively speaking, that means traffic will be just that that minuscule amount less problematic than what it would be if this land were never developed, because the population growth is going to come anyway. um so so that was my thinking on it uh i i don't think it's fundamentally incompatible i think the scale is right we're really talking about um just one notch above uh what might already be allowed just residential plus a little bit this isn't supermarket territory this isn't big box territory we have it in our toolkit to ratchet this thing all the way up and this is just one one notch higher uh and it's on one of the busiest roads in the city so that that That makes sense to me for the way the city's growing. Okay. Who else would like to make final comments before we do whatever we're going to do here? John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I've tried to listen to all the comments, and the one that I find most compelling is safety. If our city government is here to do anything, it's to keep our citizens safe. Now, having said that, I'll tell you this. I've been in Washington, D.C., with six lanes of traffic, and school children crossing six lines of traffic. I think that engineers are perfectly capable of designing a street system that will keep our school children safe. We can debate how safe or, you know, exactly what we want, but I think that's got to be one of our primary goals, and I don't believe we're really compromising that goal if we allow some development there. Number two, When you say we prefer to have residential homes, single-family homes, instead of mixed-use commercial, right now in our city, from the testimony of other people on this council who have more knowledge about this than I do, we have a glut of single-family homes, or we have more than we need. But what we don't have are one-bedroom apartments. If you're looking for a one-bedroom apartment in Fayetteville, you're probably not going to find it. And if you do find it, it will be very expensive. So it seems to me we need more of that development. It's hard to tell the market what we need. I mean, I might prefer an orange tie or a yellow tie. You might prefer a blue tie, whatever it is. But the market should be providing variety so everyone gets to shake and choose what they prefer. So I have a difficult time when we say we want this. Well, maybe you prefer residential houses there, but maybe what the market is demanding is mixed use. I don't want to live above a shop. I prefer to have a single-family home in a fairly quiet neighborhood. But I know people right now who would pay a lot of money to live above a restaurant or a shop where they could just go downstairs and have dinner, not have to drive anywhere, just walk. Nothing wrong with that. It's just variety. Some people like red ties, some people like blue ties. Some people like single-family neighborhoods, some people like mixed-use. That's what I want to see in our city. Whether or not Mr. Jones has selected the right combination to make his development successful is of no concern to me. That's his concern. My concern is to make our city free-range. and enable people to build in our city within existing grids and zoning regulations. I believe zoning should be broad-based, not specific-based. Just what Matthew talked about a while ago, where we have compatibility with surrounding areas. We heard complaints tonight about three stories, but the existing zoning is three stories. That won't change. And I believe that Gordon Stahl, our planning director, development director, excuse me, pointed out that with a 3,000-foot limitation, you're not going to get three stories out of 3,000 feet. You'll have a very odd-looking building. So I think even that limitation will preclude a third story. So I want to be fair to everybody, and I want us to be fair to everybody. And I understand you're concerned about your investments in the neighborhood and the safety of the children. It's what Matthew said again. Traffic is going to increase on 265, whether we grant this or not. If traffic is that big a deal to you, you really need to consider moving out into the country where there's no traffic. If you're going to live in town, you get high-speed Internet, you get better police protection, you get more fire protection, but you also get traffic and higher taxes. That's just part of the cost of living in a city with other people. I wish I could make it go away. My friends who've lived in Dallas and Houston tell me we don't know what traffic is here. We know it can be bad, but it's relative to what you're accustomed to. Usually people who live here from a large city find that traffic very tolerable. I moved here from a small town. I find it difficult sometimes. So I try to plan my life around the traffic. I leave for the office usually around 6.30. I usually come back later in the evening to avoid the traffic. I think most people do that. We have to plan our days to avoid traffic if you want to avoid it. So I would support this development for those reasons. Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Let's see. Sarah Morrison. Thank you, Mayor. I'm looking at this from a regional perspective and this is along our regional transportation corridor, Highway 265. It's part of our box around the city and we have high traffic counts and if we're going to have... Mixed-use development. This is a good place to put it. It's easily served by transit and services And I really don't see what's so objectionable about having an attorney's office or an accountant's office a bakery a barbershop Or any of the other permitted uses by right in this location And if you consider a 3,000 square foot footprint I think most of the homes in candlewood already exceed that size so from a building size perspective this is a very compatible proposal and when we consider the issue of traffic I don't know how many times I've sat on this council and heard objections from neighborhoods that don't want to be extended because they don't want more residential traffic coming through their residential neighborhood. And at least with this development, it keeps the majority of the traffic on 265 and Township and not coming through Candlewood and Fire... Firewood Lane. So from that perspective, I think you're going to see a lot less traffic in your neighborhood. But ultimately, traffic problems are what happens when we have too much single-use zoning, when we separate the places we live from the places that we work and go to school and recreate. And by starting to introduce more mixed-use zoning into different parts of our city and starting to create complete neighborhood centers, this will help alleviate some of the problems that have resulted from our historical development patterns. So with that, I'll be supporting this rezone request. Okay. Well, I have to say that this has been a very, very difficult issue for me to look at. But I think the tour that we took there yesterday was very, very helpful to me. I had never come to the Crossover Township intersection before. like I was coming from the school until yesterday when I was there and um folks it's it's uh it is very very congested now part of it I mean I'm used to the mission crossover one which is just as I suppose just as it felt more it felt more um unsafe to me personally but um I certainly do sympathize with the neighbors now on the traffic. It is really serious. And when you watch as many children coming and going as they see, I can understand their concern. On the other hand, I certainly do understand Mr. Jones wanting to sell his property, and I agree completely with what other aldermen have said, that I believe a person has a right to sell their property, and especially if it's something they've been trying to do for a while, as Mr. Jones has. Mayor, I'd like for Mr. Jones to come up. I have one other question. Sure. Absolutely. I know Mr. Jones you keep talking about wanting to sell it to like a dentist office or something of that nature. And the thought occurred to me after I talked with you yesterday and again this morning, but I forgot to ask you, have you ever had a retail business approach you about any of the land? No, ma'am, have not. When I use dentist's office, this is just as an example. It could be any other sort of building, an attorney's office or a nice-time shop or something like that, according to the law. I avoid those kinds of retail places and I value a lot what the two developers, retail developers told Alderman Tennant that they could not sell the land there because they know that a person would not want to be pulling into Crossover. You know, I personally would like to see, very much like to see us table it tonight and look at some options. You know, I even mentioned to you another option if we could bring a street behind those, behind that property. That is another possibility. But I just, I would like very much for us to. um to table it and and um i know you keep saying well why haven't some of these people come forward who wanted to build well you know it's like i told you on the phone today we many many times we think that we have put out the word really really good but then all of a sudden someone raises their head and said i didn't even know that was a possibility and so i'm hoping that with all of the publicity that this area has had now. And we do know there are some developers who are interested in houses back there, and I would like for developers for us to give you and those folks an opportunity to once again look at some options. I feel like there has to be some options. So far as the additional traffic through Candlewood, I think it needs to be clarified that And you're looking at the possibility of selling four lots, isn't that correct? That's correct. So it would only be, as a maximum, only four houses. And I noticed yesterday in our discussion with the neighbors, that did not come up once. So I don't think that's a concern of theirs for having no small number of houses exit and entrance through Candlewood. Well, that's great. You know, I can appreciate what you're asking, but, you know, to table it just prolongs something that we have already discussed, you know, several times with a lot of builders that's been out there. And, you know, they have enough experience to have to say, Jerry, you know, we would have interest or we wouldn't. I think this is just going to prolong something that if the individual you're talking about, you know, 10 or 12 years is a long time for someone not to have heard about this particular property since it has been such a hot topic. So, you know, I... You know, I don't think changing the rezoning is going to... If someone is interested in building a house there, you know, I'd still be interested in talking to them, but this rezoning, neighborhood services limited, I think they should have been more forthcoming a long time ago. I mean, they've had plenty of time. And just to suggest this, at one meeting yesterday... kind of took me aback a little bit. I'm sure, and that's the reason I would like to give you some, I'd like to give you and those folks who are interested in those houses some time to look at that as an option. Well, I mean, I'd be willing to talk to them, but after the vote tonight, in lieu of tabling, if we could do that. Thank you. I would be more than happy to talk to them. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Council Member Bunch. Yes. You know, I unfortunately could not make it to the group tour, but I had been out to the site before. And, you know, I do agree that the traffic is an issue, and it is always going to be an issue. That's a busy section of road through there. But this property, I feel that, whether it's rezoned or not, the size of it and the limitation with access right now, just looking at what we have right now, not what somebody might work out in the future, it poses really unique limitations on the property anyway. And I think that there's a good possibility that you know, if we rezone this at some point in time, perfect world scenario would be that the property behind it or to the side of it also was for sale, and we had a bigger piece of property there. Um. But that's not what we have today. We have a smaller piece of property and an owner that wants to see if he can rezone it with the possibility of a sale somewhere down the road. He's worked on this a lot. And as much as I feel for the neighbors, I also feel for Mr. Jones because of the amount of time and effort and patience he's put into trying to sell this property. Back to the traffic issue, it's always going to be busy. And one of the things that people are, when they're talking about the traffic issue and the crosswalk and the walkability of the area, how bad it is right now, you're also assuming that it's never going to improve, that there's never going to be a better crosswalk, that there's never going to be a better sidewalk, that there's never going to be anything better there. It's always going to be just the same. and more traffic. And I don't really see that as the way some people in the neighborhood see it. I see it as a possibility that this could, yes, the traffic will increase, but we could also make improvements there, maybe. Is it an appropriate use of the land is one of the complaints that has been made, but it's not. That we should only have houses, always houses next to houses. And if we did that, we'd have just a really sprawling city. We'd only have commercial next to commercial and only RSF4 next to RSF4. And I think with the triangular-shaped piece of property to the north being zoned RO, I I think this is an appropriate rezoning for this property, what Mr. Jones is requesting. So I feel that, you know, I can table this if that's what the council wants to do to allow some conversation between Mr. Jones and neighbors, but I'd be ready to vote on it tonight. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. Mark. Tabled or not, everything we've talked about tonight and everything we talked about on our tour is very hypothetical. And who knows, someone might come up with an idea and they'll be back to have it rezoned again. Rezoning to me is one of the biggest decisions we make because it does set a pathway of development throughout the city. By driving through the Candlewood estates back there, I can understand the vision that someone had in this property of developing some beautiful large homes that were very much similar to the Candlewood estates. You would turn off firewood, you would drive over and it would extend that neighborhood, and so I understand that, and that is certainly some nice compatibility. Issue we have now is we don't know what's happening in the property immediately behind it. We just don't know What we are faced with is a compromise and in a compromise a lot of times No one is happy, but with neighborhood services limited. We do know that the size of the footprint of the building is probably similar to a lot of the homes that are in candlewood and We know that the restrictions on the type of services that would be offered in Neighborhood Services Limited would help regulate the traffic in and out of this property. Ideally the traffic would not be coming off of a high usage, high speed roadway. That would be ideal. Anyone that has seen the development of some of our other corridors, MLK, Weddington, we know that we have to be very careful up and down corridors or we certainly do have a safety situation. We've had some tough issues on Weddington and I think by having the median and by having better planning we're going to certainly have a safer roadway over here than we have at Weddington or MLK. And so that comes into my decision. When I walked the property yesterday, I've always been one, and I will say this every time, to look at neighborhood preservation. And I went there with an idea that we would preserve this property. It would be neighborhood preservation. It would be an extension to Candlewood. It seemed like a real probability. But when we went ahead and drove around Candlewood and Firewood and we saw where the connection is going to be and the fact that we don't know what is going to happen to the property between Candlewood and this five platted residential properties, it seemed to me that a good compromise was Neighborhood Services Limited. And that's the only reason I'm supporting this, is because the owner did decide to bring it down a notch to Neighborhood Services Limited, and I did not make my decision lightly. I looked at the property. I went back to my office today. I'm a mortgage banker, and we looked at the way that things were planted in the area and the possibilities. it's still not going to prevent a mixed use coming off of candlewood which could actually enhance the quality of life in candlewood what we also know is it's still going to push the buildings out to the to the highway and that's going to make people visually uh understand that they need to slow down because with open space right now or with the wooded area it becomes a raceway I do not like the U-turn. I do not like the safety of that area. And I do think that we must be very aggressive in looking at alternative ways to get into this property rather than right off the highway. That being said, looking at everything and making lists and looking at different plats and looking at different zonings, I think that in this case, the U-turn the compromise and this is a compromise between a higher, a larger building and larger business development and the fact that there truly is a buffer right now between this property and Candlewood that this could be an appropriate rezoning and it's a very tough decision for me and I really am sympathetic and empathetic with all the neighbors in the area. But I think that neighborhood services limited is going to give us an opportunity to look at some options. To look at some options because it may not work out anyway because it's going to be right in and right out. The square footage is limited. The buildings are going to have to be brought up to the street. there's a lot of restrictions i don't know that anyone's going to build an office there we don't know it's all hypothetical but what we do know currently is with five lots no one's building and no one's coming and no one's going and i don't see that that is a good use of the property currently it would be great if we had a pzd so we could look at actual and I know no one likes planned zone districts. I know they don't, but this is a pretty special piece of property. If we had a PZD and we had a good idea of an honest-to-goodness development, that might be what is ideal in this area. So after a lot of consideration, and I've always supported neighborhoods, and I still think that the neighborhood is going to be protected. I don't know that... I don't know that the other zoning is going to change a lot of the issues of safety. This is an unsafe intersection. We've got to do better over there. So at this point, I can support the neighborhood services limited. Okay. Thank you. Just a few more thoughts. I know that the speed of traffic on that corridor is definitely a concern, and I think that one of the reasons that cars go so fast is because there are not a lot of entrances and exits. If you look at the size of that roadway and the traffic capacity, it's very similar to North College, but cars go slower on North College because people are turning in and they're turning out. um so i think having a few more interruptions along that corridor will cause people to slow down and pay attention especially with the buildings right up next to the street um and you know when we develop this with uh mixed use higher intensity development that equals more money for infrastructure improvements in that area so when we talk about wanting to create a better safer crosswalks for kids and hopefully more people that will be walking in this area having more taxable land value and development in this area helps us, it enables that process. So we can make walkability improvements in these neighborhoods. In addition to what is required by the development process. So they're going to be required to have sidewalks and street trees and all the things that you associate with good walkable urban development. And rezoning this, I wanna point out most importantly, single family residential will still be allowed by right. So that does not prevent housing single-family residential housing development from from eventually manifesting in this space it just expands our options not limits them so with that I know this is a tough decision but delaying it further isn't going to make it any easier I'd like to go ahead and resolve it tonight so I move that we approve the reason all right so I'm gonna make a motion to approve We're there for the approval. I mean, if somebody makes a motion to table it or discuss it further, that would be another option. Otherwise, we're just going to book this thing up or down one way or the other. We're there. Yeah, my motion is on the table. Adele. Mayor, I would like to make a motion. Can I make a motion, even though, can I make a motion that we table it? Yes, a motion to table has preference. Okay, thank you. I make a motion that we table this. You need to determine whether it's going to be a definite time or indefinite. You need to have something motioned table to win. I'd say two weeks. Do we have a second on that? I'll second it, but I'd like to say something. Okay. And so I seconded it because I also mentioned tabling. And I want to say this. I have over these seven plus years, I have voted to table a lot of things. I've voted not to table a lot of things. So I certainly will respect anyone who votes to table or not to table because I understand both sides. In one way, tabling for a couple of weeks might give people a chance to discover other options. And I think that would be a good thing. And again, I I will vote to table it. But I also think that regardless of what we do tonight, Council Member Latour said something that resonated with me. The market decides a lot of times what happens. And if the market in this neighborhood is... built for what I was suggesting which is a combination of properties with and with a road into The back neighborhood that allows for large residential homes to be built there then that's what's going to happen Anyway, so I will vote the table this in support councilmember Gray, I don't know honestly of two weeks in is enough in this situation but I'll still support your motion but uh I certainly respect everybody on the council whether or not they they want to move forward I understand but I would like more options to be looked at from the the road the connectivity into it and that and as Council Member Kenyon said that may happen anyway a few years from now we may have a residential units there and an entrance and exit off candlewood or firewood or the other one from the runnels property and and you know this was all for not but i do appreciate everybody taking the time on this one it's an important one i will vote to table it if it stands great if not uh you know i'll i'll be voting against it overall uh because i do think there's some other options but i respect everybody for uh for their opinion Now let me ask a couple of questions here about the road that we're talking about building. Where is that on the map? Help me out here, Carter. Mayor, it's... I mean, coming out of Candlewood, where is it? Yeah, it's right... Can you see where my pointer is? I do. It's right there. Okay, thank you. Now, there is an area of Candlewood that Candlewood has fought for a number of years, a road going. That's not the same area, is it? That road that got, the right-of-way that got vacated was to the north, if I'm not mistaken, and this is just another right-of-way that has not been built, but it has not been vacated either. I think that's correct. I don't know. I understand what you're saying, but there was a discussion at this council about a right-of-way coming out of and building a road out of Candlewood to make a connection somewhere, just not very long ago. Andrew can address that. Hey, yeah, there's Andrew. All right. What's there, Andrew? There was the council vacated a right-of-way that was stubbed out to the north. The city attorney mentioned it's not this particular stub out. Okay. Okay, that's what I needed to know. All right. We have a motion and a second to table for how long? Two weeks. Okay. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Hinnion? No. Yes. Teddy? No. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? No. Smith? No. Ray? Yes. Well, it's a tie, Mayor, so if you care to vote yes, you may. I'll vote to table it for two weeks for discussion. Yes. So you voted yes? Yes. Okay. It has been tabled now for two weeks. All right. Thank you very much. Okay. Moving along to new business. Number one, in order to approve Vacation 18-6075, a property located east of 2000 Block Dead Horse Mountain Road, to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the fully inscribed portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw, Section 1, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1. Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, an easement shall be rededicated over the existing eight-inch sanitary sewer main to the satisfaction of the City of Fayetteville's Water and Sewer Department. Okay. Who is it? Garner, do you have that? Yes, Mayor. As Mr. Williams said, it's between Dead Mountain and... Dead Horse Mountain Road. Dead Horse. And Stone Mountain Golf Course. The golf course is over here. The road is here. There's a subdivision being platted. In fact, the Planning Commission has approved a preliminary plat for it. And the problem is there is an existing sewer line, and there's a dedicated easement, a utility easement, that doesn't follow the sewer line. But the plant corrects that, and we're recommending approval subject to the normal conditions. Okay. Any questions from the council? Any public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, Matt. May our move go to the second reading? Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marce. Mm-hmm.
 Kingin.
 Yes.
 Petty.
 Yes.
 Hinnant.
 Yes.
 Hunch.
 Yes.
 Luture.
 Yes.
 Mith.
 Yes.
 Rowe.
 Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 18-6075 or property located east of the 2000 block of Dead Horse Mountain Road to vacate a portion of utility easement. Okay. There we are. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hennant? Yes. Unch? Yes. LeCair? Yes. Neff? Yes. Gray? Yes. And the ordinance of the approved VAC 18-6075 were properly located east of the 2000 block Dead Horse Mountain Road to vacate a portion of utility easement. Okay, any final comments from the council on this? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance for the zone that property is grabbing his own petition RZN 18-662 for approximately 16.76 acres located. South of 2901 Mount Comfort Road from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to NC, neighborhood conservation for about 7.47 acres to URIU, residential intermediate urban for about 1.96 acres and to RA, residential agricultural for about 7.32 acres. Kip. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation for about 7.47 acres. to Riu Residential Intermediate Urban for about 1.96 acres, and to RA Residential Agricultural for about 7.32 acres. Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Go ahead. Yes, Mary Campbell. The natural area to the south where it's a wilderness conditions with limited development potential primarily because of the floodplain. Issues, the slightly higher densities that the NC allows, the higher densities that our residential intermediate urban allows, and issues that were addressed at the Planning Commission was increased traffic. But we believe the infrastructure that is currently in place is adequate. So with that, the Planning Commission staff recommend approval as requested. Be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Donner on this? Okay. Okay, we'll open it up for some public comment. Okay, everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You get a five minute time limit. Unless council member brings you back up to ask questions. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage anybody on the city council or out in the public. Let's see. And stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and here we go. Who'd like to be first? thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk uh my name is sean thomas and i live at 1842 north september stroll lane it's in the oak brook subdivision that's just a little bit west down mount comfort from where this prison rezoning is and AND MY CONCERNS ARE REALLY ABOUT THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND WHAT I'VE READ IN THE REPORT FROM THE STAFF AND THE PETITION ITSELF IN TERMS OF WHAT'S GOING TO BE THE POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE COMMUNITY AS IT RELATES TO INCREASING THE RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. I HAVE SOME CONCERNS. I KNOW THEY WERE BROUGHT UP IN THE PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT WHAT THE TRAFFIC WOULD BE LIKE IN THE AREA. But for me, the larger issue is what could be the potential impact on the local schools. Particularly, I'm concerned about the local elementary school. I have a child that's in the third grade at Holcomb Elementary, and I have another child that I hope is going to be able to get into kindergarten there in the fall. And so as they were putting up there, the staff and the petition itself, self-consulted. recognizes that there's a potential increase in population density, but they don't think that this is going to have a negative effect on the public services, particularly the schools. And I would have to disagree. Recently, in a newsletter that was put out by the public schools, the superintendent of the school, Dr. Matthew Wendt, indicated that due to high enrollment in Hokem Elementary School, which this area is zoned for, he informed the school board that there's going to be a freeze on the enrollment of first through fourth graders and that there's going to be a cap of 154 kindergarteners allowed in in the fall of 2018 and i registered my daughter i was first in line to register for kindergarten uh and at the end of the day i believe that there was uh i might be a little wrong but there's about two-thirds of the 154 spots were already spoken for in the very first day of enrollment and so You know, I think that that school is already maxed and they're saying that now the families that move in for kids that want to go to, that are zoned for Holcomb, in the Holcomb attendance zone, that now they'll be rezoned or pushed over to Owl Creek and Owl Creek will keep a record of those students. And then also the after school opportunities and particularly SKC, the after school program that many of the parents in the area rely on. That filled up within two days of them saying that they were going to allow people to register for it. And so, you know, I wasn't available to come in on Monday. I came in Tuesday afternoon, and they were like, oh, you're already on the wait list. Now, we were able to get our daughter in there because we were high up on the wait list, but the school is already at capacity. And the after-school programs that we rely on are already at capacity. To me, this tells me that the local infrastructure has already stretched capacity and increasing the residential density is going to have potential important negative and undesirable impact. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have among council? Council members from that board over there heard anything? We did speak about this briefly at the work for meeting last week. Not a lot of feedback. The one thing I've had a couple of questions about is traffic. Is there any likelihood at development time that there would be some sort of traffic control measure for this development to exit out onto Mount Comfort? That would be a subject access, egress access to the property. It would be a plotting subject, which is the next step. I might point out there, Mount Comfort has four lanes. It has a bike lane the entire distance. And a sidewalk. So full range of facilities are in place. Yeah. We made sure that that was in place when we put that in. Any other questions? comments from the council all right so what would you all like to do here adela and then we go to the second reading john second motion there all right we have motion second to go to second reading tundra would you please call the roll marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6062 for approximately 16 and three quarter acres located south of 2901 Mount Comfort Road from residential single family four units per acre to neighborhood conservation for about seven and a half acres to RI-U residential intermediate urban for about two acres and to RA residential agricultural for about 7.3 acres. Okay. And so, Adele? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Rush? Yes. Patera? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 18-6062, for approximately 16 and three-quarter acres located south of 2901 Mount Comfort Road. From residential single-family four units per acre to neighborhood conservation for about seven and a half acres to residential intermediate urban for about two acres and to residential agricultural for about 7.3 acres. Okay. Matthew? Thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry. I've got Kyle. Okay. May. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to take a second to talk a little bit about the school district issue that got raised. Just last week, we were at a Joint City Council school board meeting, and so the issue is timely to talk about. And I was looking at the request, and I was thinking about the demographic study that Dr. Wendt presented to us, And in the demographic study, they looked at projected, the projected number of children that would be in any kind of particular neighborhood that was built. And they called that the yield rate, And I was looking at this rezoning and between the new neighborhood conservation and the RAU, the absolute theoretical maximum, and I think any development is going to be a lot lower than this because of the challenges involved, but just by the numbers, the absolute theoretical maximum would be about 110 plus or minus new dwelling units. which according to the demographic study that Dr. Wendt presented to us would have about a theoretical maximum of about 30 or so children in the school district attending schools across all of the grades. So if that's our theoretical maximum, it makes me a little bit more comfortable about the impact that this particular development might have on the school district. especially because that spread across all the grades the other point that dr went made to us was that um because of the study they were they were planning to build a new elementary school uh within the next four five or six years they weren't planning to build facilities for any of the other grades but elementary school is where the city is is going to start seeing some pressure over over the next five years and they know that that's going to lead to rezoning the school districts and i i think not that it's um not that it relieves any of the pain but I think that uh the school board seems to understand Dr Witt seems to understand that there are some growing pains over the next five years and with the rezoning that the city's going to have to get through and that they want to lead us through when we look at the decisions the school board made going back 10 or 20 years back and and their choice to build facilities West of the interstate we saw for the past 10 years or so that busing or otherwise transporting a lot of kids across the interstate from the east side to the west side. And as we see projects like this come online, we expect that we're going to see a little bit of a reversal of those traffic patterns. So I don't expect and I don't think based on our meeting last week, the Dr. Wendtler school board expects that it's going to get fixed right away, but in my estimation, projects like this in the long run might actually help some of the transportation issue. And by the way, the school district is spending about $1.2 million a year on busing. So to the extent we can get people living close to the schools, children living close to the schools at all with projects like this, it could help on a couple of different ends. Okay. Any other final comments from council on this? Okay. uh son would you please call the road marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes mature yes yes yes gray yes okay thank you all uh c3 has been sent back to the planning commission and i think that's scheduled for march 12th is it correct two weeks all right now all right c4 an ordinance to waive the crumbs form competitive being an approved contract with Automated Merchant Systems Incorporated for Credit Card Processing Services. As the council is aware, no re-implement... Hang on. Sorry. It's actually an ordinance. I have to read it. Sorry, kid. Sorry, kid. Whereas the city currently uses authorized.net to process credit card payments through a custom website that interfaces with the city's financial software system, and whereas the city is in the process of implementing the Tyler New World's eSuite online payment system that will be fully integrated with the financial software system, And whereas Tyler has partnered with Automated Merchant Systems Incorporated as its preferred vendor to provide credit card processing services for the E-Suite online payment system, and whereas the initial cost to the city will be less than $20,000, city staff anticipates expanding the use of Automated Merchant Systems Incorporated for other payment processes that would increase the annual cost to more than $20,000. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract with Automated Merchant Systems Incorporated for credit card processing services through the Tyler New World E-Suite Online Payment System. Well, again, as the council will remember, we implemented the ERP system. Right now we have four credit card processors, the major ones. process parking credit cards, water and sewer payments on credit cards, also some miscellaneous billing which are things such as some of the carts for the haulers for recycling and trash, some of the accounts receivable out at the airport. What we are proposing is to take a smaller portion of those accounts receivable we call miscellaneous billing use this particular vendor as a pilot to see if it works so we can consolidate these all together, hopefully get a better solution, which feeds directly into the ERP system. As we have now, we have to write bridge programs, IT does, to take this information into the system and also consolidate everything. for best price and take advantage of reconciliations and things of that nature in the ARP system. In response to Alderman Latour's request at the last agenda session, I costed this out. The actual cost of these transactions we're talking about would be 3.3% or was 3.3% last year, roughly $4,000. Also, we contacted a vendor, told them the exact same type of transactions that we would have this time. And there are several types of transactions. You could use a debit card. You could use Visa, Discover, et cetera. And their estimate was a little over 2%, 2.1% would cost about $2,800. Any expansion to this we would bring to the council, but that's the cost of this particular request. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Paul on this? John. Just a comment, Mayor. I like that price a lot better. Thanks, Paul. Yeah, I thought you might. I, uh... A little recalculating. I unfortunately, mentally came to that calculation based on some numbers without deducting all of the transactions that we have for a lot of the other ones. So I think about the 3% range would be much better. OK. Any other questions for Paul on this? All right. What public comment do we have on this? OK, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Which is the council? Okay, now I'm moving that we move to the second reading Sir second we have motion second go to the second reading Some of you tall row Marsh. Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, and your niche to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with automated merchant systems incorporated for credit card processing services and Okay, and so yes, Adele. I move we go to the third and final reading. Okay Sarah second. We have a motion second go to the third and final reading. Sandra would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Unch? Yes. LeCher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with automated merchant systems incorporated for credit card processing services okay sir excuse me okay any final comments from the council all right son would you please call the row March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Now I want to go back to item C three again. Garden. Garden. You tell me that was going to be on the planning commission in two weeks from today. I'm sorry, Mayor. It is going to be scheduled for March the 12th. Okay. So I just saw some of the folks from the neighborhood, and they were taking notes. I want you all to know that it's going to the Planning Commission on March the 12th, not the... A week from yesterday. A week from yesterday. That's the next Planning Commission meeting, and we are placing it on that agenda. I thought I heard you all say two weeks, which is later than... Can I actually ask a question on that? Yeah, you sure can. So... all processes being taking their normal time. If it goes to the Planning Commission, then they will either decide to table it, send it to us. If they decide to send it to us, when would be the first time it would be on our agenda possibly? It would be April the 3rd. And, Alderman Tennant, that's because we have had a request from that neighborhood that it not be scheduled for the March 20th meeting due to spring break of the school and university. Right. Yeah. So it could be later if the Planning Commission doesn't... It could be later. Yes. It could be later, but at the soonest it would have been the 20th and at the request of the the neighborhood for it not to be during a week when many people are gone uh the earliest now it could be would be the first meeting in april thank you very much i just wanted to be sure we got the date right on when it went to the planning commission i don't know you know they may i appreciate it may be a meeting or two i want to be clear on everything okay let's see we're on number five right all right an ordinance to amend 98.02 duty of property owner and occupant to keep sidewalks free from obstructions 98.04 growing Trees and other vegetation near intersections right away to be kept free from grass and weeds 98 point eight spilling or tracking debris Public streets and fifty point zero one definitions of the federal code into an act ninety eight point zero nine abatement By city cost responsibility of over kit being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arcs are hereby repeal Section 98.02, Duty of Property Owner and Occupant to Keep Sidewalks Free from Obstructions, and enacts a new Section 98.02 as follows, with the same title. Subsection A, the owner, occupant, or agent of every house or parcel of land in the city shall keep the sidewalk and gutter in front or alongside the same, free from all obstructions of grass, leaves, weeds, or other growth substances or things. Subsection B, the owner, occupant, or agent of every house or partial of land in the city may not place, maintain, or permit a tree or plant to obstruct a sidewalk. Vegetation growing over the sidewalk shall be trimmed by the property owner, occupant, or agent at a minimum clearance of eight feet above the sidewalk for the full width of the sidewalk. Where adequate right-of-way exists, clearance shall be two feet back from the edge of the sidewalk or edge of the pavement. Subsection C, the owner, occupant, or agent of every house or partial of land in the city If no sidewalk exists in no event, shall this require clearance outside of the existing public right of way? Newly planted street trees are exempt from the eight foot clearance requirement until they are large enough to be trimmed to compliance. Section two at the city council, the city of Fairmont, are hereby amend section ninety eight point oh four. growing trees and other vegetation near intersections right of way to be kept free from grass and weeds by adding tall in front of grass section 3 At the City Council city of Fayetteville are hereby amends a section 98.08 Spilling or tracking debris on to public streets by repealing it as an entirety renaming it and enacting a replacement section 9808 as follows as Spilling or tracking debris onto public streets, sidewalks, or trails. Subsection A. Any person who spills dirt, gravel, sand, offal, or any other similar material, or who tracks mud, dirt, or other debris onto any public street, sidewalk, or trail of the city, shall be responsible for the prompt and thorough clearance and cleaning thereof. The mayor or duly authorized representative is hereby authorized to order the responsible party to clear and clean any affected street, sidewalk, or trail within three business days of notice. The city shall promptly give the responsible party written notice, which can be by hand delivery mail or posting the property, of the mayor's order to clean or clear the street, sidewalk, or trail. Subsection B. If the responsible party fails to clear or clean the affected street, sidewalk, or trail within three business days of receipt of notice, the city may undertake the street, sidewalk, or trail cleaning and bill the responsible party for the cost thereof at an overtime rate for said staff. Subsection C. The responsible party may request that the mayor or duly authorized representative conduct an administrative review of such order or the appropriateness of the amount assessed for the cleaning. The decision of the mayor or duly authorized representative shall constitute final administrative action in the matter. Section 4. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enacts a new Section 9809, abatement by City, cost, responsibility of owner, as follows. If the conditions described in the notice given pursuant to 9802 and 9804 are not removed, or corrected within 10 days after the notice is given, the mayor or his duly authorized representative is hereby authorized to do whatever is necessary to correct or remove the conditions described in the above notice. The cost of correcting said condition shall be charged to the owner or owners of the property. Section 5. At the City Council, City of Fayetteville, I hereby amend Section 50.01 definitions of Chapter 50, Recycling and Trash Collections, by enacting the following as an additional and final sentence to the definition of curbside. Quote, if a street has a sidewalk adjacent to the curb, the recycling, trash, and yard waste bins, carts, and containers shall be placed at the back of the sidewalk to avoid impeding access on the sidewalk. Unquote. Section 6 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas. I hereby amend Section 50.20, Service Requirements, by amending the location allowed for garbage carts to be within six feet rather than within three feet of the curb, street, or alley. Okay. Matt. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Matt Mihaljevic, Trails Coordinator. I also serve as the staff representative for the Active Transportation Committee. This came about after a joint committee between the Transportation Committee and the Active Transportation Committee where a walk was taking place around the square, kind of south And during that walk, it was observed that the group was kind of, I think, eye-opening to the fact that a lot of the sidewalk was blocked by either trash or vegetation overgrowth. A lot of that vegetation ends up getting trimmed by the Transportation Division, but while we were looking through all the ordinance, it is currently the responsibility of the property owner to take care of that sidewalk. So basically after that walk, staff was asked to go through the ordinances and look at ways to clarify and strengthen some of the existing code to help keep our sidewalks clear and This has gone through the Act of Transportation Committee, unanimously supporting these changes, and the Transportation Committee supporting these proposed changes. Okay. I also did want to add one thing. The big goal was to have an educational component, so in the spring, if this is approved, we plan to have a series of pamphlets and other educational information to help inform the citizens of the responsibility to keep the site all clear. Okay, what questions do we have from Matt on this? Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thanks for all your work on this. I think it's a real common-sense ordinance. I do have an edge case. It's my house. I'm hoping I don't get in trouble here. So I have a sidewalk at the back of the curb, just like this regulates. But I also have parallel parking next to the curb. So if I put my trash can in my yard, like this ordinance requires, I can't get to it because there are cars parked in the way. So I usually put mine in the gutter, but I read this ordinance that would be disallowed. I think it would be allowed to put it in the gutter as long as it doesn't impede the flow of traffic, vehicular traffic in this case. Great. Happy to still get my traffic. Yeah, we're getting picked up. Yeah. Any other questions from Matt on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? And then I'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Sarah. Thank you. I just want to say thank you to Matt and all the staff that has helped develop this ordinance in conjunction with the Active Transportation Advisory Council. And really this is just to make sure that we have full utilization and proper maintenance of the active transportation infrastructure that we already have. and making sure that those citizens that with mobility challenges or maybe they're pushing a stroller have full inclusive access to using our community and accessing things in our community. And then also, you know, we've seen an uptick in construction lately and You know, while most construction companies are quite responsible, some are not, and we've seen quite a few dirt clods, you know, littered into the roadway. And this just gives us some incentive to have them clean up after themselves and hold them accountable for any messes that they cause. So I think this is a real common sense ordinance and will help us make the most of infrastructure we already have. So with that, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Thank you. okay mark i'll second that we have a motion and a second to go to the second read somebody would you please call the roll marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes right yes an ordinance demand section 9802 duty of property owner and occupant to keep sidewalks free from obstructions Section 9804, growing trees and other vegetation near intersections right of way to be kept free from grass and weeds. Section 9808, spilling or tracking debris onto public streets. And Section 50.01, definitions of the Fayetteville Code and to enact Section 9809, abatement by the city, cost responsibility of owner. Yeah. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Butcher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. And Ordinance Demand Section 9802, Duty of Property Owner and Occupant to Keep Sidewalks Free from Instructions. Section 9804, Growing Trees and Other Vegetation Near Intersections, Right of Way to be Kept Free from Grass and Weeds. Section 9808, Spilling or Tracking Debris on the Public Streets. And Section 50.01, Definitions of the Fayetteville Code and to Enact Section 9809, Abatement by City, Cost, Responsibility of Owner. Okay. What final comment? Don. Yes, I just wanted to make a quick comment. I want to thank the Alternative Transportation Advisory Committee for their work on this. I do want to highlight that we have a crew of four to handle 55 square miles of city limits and so that's why this ordinance has always been in place for property owners to assist maintaining those areas adjacent to their own property because I think the, you other consequences higher taxes to hire enough people to maintain it which is why councils have historically put this responsibility for property owners to maintain what is in their own adjacent property We also have to comply with this from a title six perspective for our disabled and handicapped individuals so it is a responsibility that we have to make sure that people can move about the sidewalks and so while we respond to our own right-of-way cleanup this is also going to be very helpful to staff to not be going hopefully to property owners to clean up items that the ordinance has always required okay John just a question for our legal counsel kit suppose someone defaces the sidewalk in front of my house and paints graffiti all over it am I responsible for that This is very hypothetical since I don't have a sidewalk in front of my house. Well, I'll try to make sure they don't do that, John. I actually don't think that probably is covered by these. This is more vegetation, weeds, and all that kind of junk. But I do think that we do make an effort to get graffiti cleaned up as quickly as possible to deter future... Graffitiers. Similarly, if I'm pouring a sidewalk in my backyard and the concrete truck gets some mud in my backyard and he tracks it onto the road, I'm responsible for that mud? No, he probably would be responsible for that. That was an ordinance actually. I remember when it was first done, Heather Daniels, who was then an older woman, noticed that a lot of developers were just driving their trucks right out onto the street and and causing lots of problems for the city to clean that up. And she thought that's probably not a good idea, and so she sponsored that ordinance. And it's amazing how quickly that was effective, and the streets look a lot better around developments. So developers now know what to do, and they take pretty good care not to track up the streets. Okay. I might just add that that's a very important factor to our water quality related to our runoff and our impact on our streams, which is also why we have that requirement. Unless they commit some sort of vandalism in my road ditch, I don't think I've got to worry too much about that. I don't have a sidewalk either, John, just so you know. But I do have a nice road ditch that I've maintained for almost 40 years. So, anyhow, I'm pretty handy with the weed eater. Kids bought me a new one one year for Father's Day. I said, well, thank you for that job, creator. But anyway, is there any other? Don, you're still on the? Okay. Any other final comments? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Hennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Nair. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Number six, an ordinance to enact 97.083 smoking and use of tobacco products to Chapter 97 Parks and Recreation to prohibit smoking and tobacco use in all city parks and trails. Kip. Whereas, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, each year approximately 480,000 people die of diseases caused by smoking, accounting for one in every five deaths in the United States, and that the use of cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, cigars, pipes, and other tobacco products leads to the disease and death. And whereas studies by the Surgeon General of the United States, by the National Academy of Sciences, and by other health organizations have linked passive exposure tobacco smoke, which we call secondhand smoke, to a variety of negative health conditions in non-smokers. and whereas health hazards induced by breathing secondhand smoke include lung cancer, respiratory infection, decreased exercise tolerance, decreased respiratory function, bronchoconstriction, bronchospasm, and whereas non-smokers who suffer allergies, respiratory diseases, and other ill effects of breathing secondhand smoke may experience a loss of job productivity and may be forced to take periodic sick leave because of such adverse reactions. And whereas smoking is a potential cause of fires, and cigarette and cigar burns and ash stains on fixtures cause losses and other damage to property, including unsightly litter. There's no such thing as sightly litter, but... And whereas the CDC reports that smokeless tobacco use is hazardous to health and can lead to nicotine addiction, that smokeless tobacco contains at least 28 known carcinogens and causes oral, pancreatic, and esophageal cancer, as well as other serious health problems such as gum disease, tooth decay, and mouth lesions, And whereas the purpose of this ordinance is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by prohibiting smoke and other tobacco use in city-owned and operated recreational facilities and parks, and whereas the use of tobacco products is counterproductive to citizens and visitors utilizing parks and recreation facilities for enriching their lives, including the proven mental and physical health benefit that parks provide, And whereas the city expands considerable resources to clean cigarette butt litter, and the presence of such litter contributes to the decline of the appeal of public spaces such as parks, trails, picnic areas, and ball fields. And whereas the city has the authority as the owner of the Fayetteville park and trail systems to prohibit smoking and use of tobacco products on its own property. Now therefore it be ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby enact Section 97.083, Smoking and Tobacco Use in Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation of the Fayetteville City Code, as follows. Subsection 97.083, Smoking and Use of Tobacco Products. Subsection A, Smoking and Use of Tobacco Products includes the holding a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind or lighting or emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe cigar or cigarette of any kind. It also includes the use of all smokeless tobacco and nicotine containing products including but not limited to chewing tobacco, snuff, dip and snus, electronic cigarettes, vapor devices or heated devices. Subsection B, it shall be prohibited for any person to smoke or use tobacco products in any city-owned or operated recreational facilities, parks, and trails. Exemption, cessation products approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, such as nicotine gum, nicotine lozenges, nicotine patches, pharmaceutical nicotine inhalers, not including any form of electronic products. and nicotine nasal sprays are specifically exempted from this section and can be used in city-owned or operated recreational facilities, parks, and trails. Subsection D, the city shall post signs in city-owned or operated parks, trails, and recreational facilities at the discretion of the Director of Parks and Recreation notifying the public that smoking and tobacco use of any kind are prohibited. subsection e any person who smokes or uses tobacco products in an area where it is prohibited by this section shall be guilty of a violation and punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars per occurrence okay con connie edmonston parks immigration director good evening mayor and city council thank you for reviewing this proposal for an ordinance that would make our parks and trails smoke free This is an ordinance that we have been requested by several, or many citizens actually, that have wanted to have smoke-free parks. And our Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, they endorsed it at our February 5th Parks Board meeting. Currently there are about 26 cities within the state of Arkansas that have smoke-free ordinances. You have a list of those on your table. And within the United States, there's about 1,500 cities that have endorsed smoke-free parks with an ordinance. That's as of October of last year. The reasons why we would like to have smoke-free parks include clean air, children's safety. Many times the cigarette butts that are thrown out on playgrounds or in streams where our kids play or even on ball fields, the children pick it up, little ones might eat it. They provide a model of healthy behavior, fire prevention, groundwater pollution prevention, and prevention of litter pollution. So what this ordinance would do is it would prohibit smoking and use of tobacco in any city owned or operated recreational facility, park or trail. And it would include lighted pipes, cigars, cigarettes of any kind as well as the use of the smokeless tobaccos and nicotine containing cigarettes, vapor devices and heated devices. the cessation products approved by the U.S. Drug and Food and Drug Administration would be exempt, such as nicotine gum. If you do approve this ordinance, public education is very important for us to have, and we would have signs posted in our parks and on our trails. The Northwest Arkansas Tobacco and Drug Free Coalition has endorsed this ordinance and will assist with the signs in our parks and trails. Violation of this ordinance is a fine not to exceed $50 per occurrence. The National Recreation and Parks Association has endorsed for municipalities throughout U.S. to have smoke-free park laws. So, we're asking you tonight to help us in building a healthier community and in having smoke-free parks that will provide a positive impact for our park and trail users. Do you have any questions for me? Okay, what questions do we have for Connie on this? I just have a quick question. Okay, Jeff. Thank you, Connie. And first of all, I'm totally in favor of this, but you mentioned the coalition. Did that mean they're going to pay for the signs, or is the signs part of the budgeting, or how is that going to work? They're going to assist us with signage. Okay, thank you. Okay, what other questions do we have for Connie on this? Okay, let's open it up for public comment. Everybody knows the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Five minute limit. Correct all your comments to me. Don't engage anyone from the city council or the public. The only time you can come back is if council member has questions for you or ask you to come back to the mic. Stay on topic. Give us your name and address and here we go. I'd like to be first. All right. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council then. All righty, then. Adela. It gives me great pleasure, Mayor, to say that we will please move to the second reading. All right. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Unch. Yes. LeTour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. An ordinance to enact section 97083 smoking and use of tobacco products into chapter 97 parks and recreation to prohibit smoking and tobacco use in all city parks and trails. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra would you please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Unch? Yes. LeChair? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. An ordinance to enact section 97083, smoking and the use of tobacco products into chapter 97, parks and recreation, to prohibit smoking and tobacco use in all city parks and trails. Final comments from the council. Okay. Well, I would like to just say one thing. Chief Staff, this is a far cry from when we saw the first smoking ordinance, isn't it? Times change. Wow. It was almost blood in the streets in that first one. It was. That ended up as a vote of the people, which passed, I believe it was 51 to 49. I might also add that- You do remember that, of course. I remember it very well since I was a co-sponsoring council member. Council member with council member Shirley Lucas who recently passed away. I'm sure she's up above looking down, proud of the fact that we're taking that step. And I might add that we tend to think of ourselves as trailblazers, and this is one where when you look at this list – It's amazing that some of these cities have done this, even prior to Fayetteville bringing this forward, considering our healthy initiatives as a community and our goals of council. The other thing I might add is we really experienced today this, you know, when people talk about fire danger, we had three fires today in the city that were significant. I want to thank Chief DeRinger and his teams and the surrounding communities who helped fight some of those, including the state forestry. But this is a real risk, and particularly in parks where we have high usage that are treed like Fayetteville, Lake Sequoia, Lake Wilson. So I think it's an excellent step in safety all the way around. Okay. Sandra, would you please go on the road? Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Luttre? Yes. Ness? Yes. Wright? Yes. Thank you, Council, very much. Very much. All right, number seven, a resolution to approve and authorize Mayor Jordan to proceed with phase one of the implementation schedule for the Downtown Entertainment District parking and mobility plan developed by Nelson Nygaard Consulting Associates Incorporated. Justin? Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, that's me. Council, in March of 2016, a contract with Nelson Nygaard Consulting Associates Incorporated was authorized to develop a transportation and mobility master plan, which included the development of a downtown and entertainment district parking report, which we've come to know and love as the parking master plan. As part of developing this master plan, which is designed to both stand alone as well as support the larger transportation and mobility plan, characteristics and utilization of the existing parking system were inventoried, analyzed, and forecasted to develop recommendations for parking system design and system management strategies. So the parking master plan has been completed and Jason Schreiber is here representing Nelson Nygaard. Jason's been the lead consultant working on this project and he's going to provide some greater detail about the study, its findings, some of the challenges that were identified, as well as the plans, strategies and recommendations aimed at improving how the parking system functions and the experience of those who park with the goal of increasing availability throughout the entire parking system. So before I turn it over to Jason, I did just want to talk a little bit about the proposed implementation schedule, which staff has come up with and that we're asking for authorization to move forward with phase one of tonight. So in phase one, we've identified 10 overall objectives to work toward through the end of 2019 and feel like the items demonstrate a sensible implementation approach. and are necessary to lay the foundation for future parking improvements. The theme of phase one is to provide superior customer service through consistent information, enhanced technology, and increased parking supply. So the specific phase one objectives that we're talking about include ten items. Rebranding our parking staff to promote ambassadorship and a friendly and informative approach to parking regulations and enforcement. increasing the available supply by adding on street parking where appropriate, and beginning conversations with owners of private parking lots to try and make more publicly available some of the parking that is currently restricted. Continuing to work with the Walken Art Center and Theatre Squared on agreed upon event management strategies, including prepaid parking and supporting and helping to facilitate other areas of interest such as valet parking in the future. Continuing to build upon existing stakeholder groups to discuss recommendations from the parking plan pertaining to residential improvement benefit districts and demand responsive pricing. updating and consolidating some of our internal software to put us on a path forward to technological improvements in the future, which would include being able to take mobile credit card payment during event management and things like that. We want to make outreach a priority by developing a communication plan for parking constituents and continue to ensure that our educational materials are relevant and informative. we want to research options to extend mobile payment to the downtown business districts and private lot owners where interest exists we want to install a consistent easy to understand rate signage for publicly owned and privately owned lots and identify areas to install additional wayfinding signage And we want to work with transit providers to promote some of the remote parking options that currently exist today and continue to work with our transportation division to improve sidewalks, lighting, walkability, and other infrastructure in the downtown environment. So those are the phase one objectives that we're asking you to consider tonight. And with that, I'll turn it over to Jason, and he'll provide some more details on the study itself. Thank you, Justin. Click it right there. Beautiful. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and I see you, council members. I'm happy to be back in Fayetteville, and I'm definitely very happy that Justin asked me here tonight to talk a little bit about the background of the work that we had done, which was completed in 2017. Thank you. and also to just explain some of the logic behind those 10 areas of recommendation that Justin outlined. And then afterwards, I'm hoping that he can follow up and explain to you in greater detail if you have any questions about the implementation of those. And I'm just going to try to advance these slides. So first of all, one of the key things that is important for any parking analysis to include is a very thorough evaluation of existing conditions on the ground. There we go. So we had a number of analytical tasks that were done to provide a very thorough review of parking operations in the downtown, counting literally every parking space, public and private, and little driveways, big end garages. Maybe not little tiny residential driveways, but anything over about five spaces. then to observe them throughout the hours of days, weekends, weekdays, on multiple occasions to get a sampling of how those spaces were utilized. We then looked at the parking management practices that exist in the city, both public and private, to understand how the city is managing its parking supply and how those operations are conducted. And then we also sought feedback from the public, not only stakeholders and property owners, but general members of the public through several community forums where we sought input as well as public surveys. And then we, of course, took a lot of that information and related it to the land uses and the built environment that is in the downtown, encompassing both the entertainment and business districts and the surrounding area. areas to see how they performed relative to expectations. And all of that led us to a number of strategies. I'll briefly summarize our findings and then just run through those 10 strategies for you. So the highlights of the findings are, first of all, that in general, the city has a lot of parking. in its downtown. There's 9,000 parking spaces in the study area that we covered as shown on the map there. This encompasses all of the entertainment and the business districts and the neighborhoods immediately surrounding them. And a good third, almost 40%, are fully publicly accessible. There are other private spaces that customers and others may use in the downtown. The utilization patterns for those parking spaces were mapped out and without getting into all the great details, I'll show you the punchlines. Throughout the midday of an average weekday, the bar chart in the top left corner shows that parking actually never becomes in that entire system more than about 50% utilized across all hours of the day. And that bar chart's going from 7 a.m. until about 9 p.m. The map is a heat map, so to speak, and right now we're outlining the entertainment district and the business district. Where it gets redder, there's more activity, and those pockets do exist, but you'll see there's lots and lots of blue and lighter shades of color. What this means is that overall the parking system, which is about a 10-minute walk radius across... is heavily underutilized. There are areas of great concern, and that's where most of our recommendations were focused. There are other times of the week, on average, where things get to be worse, and, for instance, the evening utilization can be a lot busier in the entertainment district, as you know, though the business district has less activity. If we advance to the next slide, This shows what a weekend evening looks like. And you'll see a lot more red activity, which means very heavily utilized parking, particularly in the entertainment district as well as the downtown business district. And it's those areas that are highlighted where we begin to have a breakdown in how parking works. works and how it might be able to be managed better. And essentially in the entertainment district in particular, the parking system is functionally full within that tighter radius. Now it's about a two and a half minute walk radius. There is parking outside of that radius and a lot of our strategies are focused on trying to work that whole system a little bit better. Those strategies are informed by what folks said and we had lots of interviews and sit downs and lots of opportunities to hear from many constituents and Without getting to each and every one of the fine points on that slide and many others that we heard Those are just some of the highlights the primary theme we heard was that things are confusing That it isn't intuitive to a visitor it isn't necessarily even intuitive to those in the know because there's different levels for permits and different places to park and and being able to make the system more readable, a little more modernized, was an important imperative for us. So, I'm going to walk through each of the recommended strategies. There are 10, again, as Justin had outlined. Our recommendations are sort of what you would put into place ideally in the outline different types of steps and elements. I think in terms of actual implementation, you'll be working through this over the course of time. Your phase one that Justin is already suggesting includes elements in all of these categories, but isn't necessarily implementing all of these to the full extent. The first of these is to really be treating parking not as a political problem, not as the thing that we argue about, but actually as just one seamless element of getting to and through and enjoying other things to do in your downtown. This is the essential thing about parking that everyone seems to miss. We don't want it to be a problem. We want it to be in the background. Treating it as a customer service function has a having nice ambassadors as Justin's team is already employed, and we heard earlier today in a stakeholder session, I've already received good accolades for, is exactly the right kind of way to approach parking in progressive cities and downtowns all across the country. And that's the best thing you'll want to do to somebody who's confused about where to park is tell them how they might be able to park and where they can go to maybe park for free or avoid a ticket or know how to walk somewhere to find that dinner. We also recommend the basics of information, streamlining the signing program. There's a lot of public and private signing of a variety of types, and already there's some model improvements that are underway by Justin's team that will help to make it a little more logical for folks to know that you can park around the corner or down the block. Those basics are some of the most important pieces of technology, the signs that we see in our downtowns. in order to get to those other places where there is available parking. And for just anyone, even if they find a space right at the center of center of activity, to be able to get to the mix of uses of the entertainment and business districts is an essential function of the parking system to be able to walk. to be able to enjoy downtown, to be able to know that if you're somebody who wants to find a parking space a little bit off the beaten path, maybe where it's free, that it's going to be a nice walk to go back the extra minute or so that you decided to park further away, and that that is safe. And there's a number of multimodal program improvements that we recommended, and already, again, some of those are already in place, and there's a program to be implementing many of those in the downtown. The increase of supply is something that is often always the primary assumption that would come out of a parking study. We don't recommend that a physical expansion of supply happens right away. As you saw earlier, those charts say the downtown doesn't exceed 50% utilization. But there may be a point in time where that happens and having a trigger where that makes sense is something that we should pursue and delineate when there's an overall utilization threshold or even at a district level. But there's many short term opportunities to improve on street parking as Justin suggested and in particular. take advantage of existing underutilized supplies, mostly that are in private hands, and like many major cities around the country, the Sacramentos, the Fort Lauderdales of America, and smaller communities have shared parking agreements where the municipality can help to make those feel like more public and therefore available supplies, which is a great way to cost effectively expand your parking supply. Current parking technology is a part of the customer service orientation. Having things that really are simple and intuitive. Right now there's a hodgepodge of technologies. There's programs in place to be able to improve them and make the parking system a little bit more intuitive. Enter the modern era and everybody likes to use these smartphones. And that's something that is likely to be expanded in Fayetteville. The event parking is definitely an issue. There's a great opportunity around the Walton Arts Center and at other venues in the entertainment district in particular to really bring in an active thriving population, but when parking peaks. We have problems right now. Folks are paying cash to be able to get in. There's a lot of ideas that Justin will be implementing about how we can tier some of the pricing, how we might be able to have eventually electronic payment, how functions such as valet and others can be incorporated with advanced notification to theater goers to even pay for their parking in advance and those can really help relieve the pressure on the downtown and the facilities near the whack in particular Future development is something that lots of folks brought up and we're very concerned about. There's a number of best practices in our recommendations that talk about incorporating what you've already begun to see in downtown, changes in how parking is managed, changes in how it's priced, but also the incentives for new development to participate in demand management programs, incentivize folks to bicycle, walk, take transit. and in particular to think a little bit more about opportunities to share their parking supplies on-site maybe even reducing ratios and in many places besides just a few of the places where that's been considered but always trying to match it to your goals of access and measuring as we go those are some of the fundamentals of future development one of the more controversial things that we recommend but we always think is something that downtown should work towards is recognizing that those assets are valuable and that the demand for front door parking, the demand for the most primary spaces often can drive folks to be fighting to get there, and those are the most valuable assets. And if the price is more reflective of that demand, it's the incentive for those who are a little more price sensitive to go seek out a cheaper alternative a little further away. And we recommend a demand responsive pricing system that would have higher pricing in the core, lesser pricing a little further away, and in many places where you price parking today, actually eliminating the pricing and making it free. Ideally, this system matches the demand patterns that we observed. Today, it's a little bit more scattered. In this example, as you see on screen, the suggestion is in the evenings in particular, the prices might be highest, but what key thing about demand responsive pricing is that when demand isn't very high, you shouldn't price parking at all. And so I believe that as that discussion evolves, there'll be many folks who have different perceptions on how to exactly unveil this, but really the goal is to create just the right amount of availability on the street, not too much, not too little. The Goldilocks principle of pricing parking works for a variety of assets. The last couple things briefly, the permit program, we're not actually recommending any major pricing changes for permits, but certainly streamlining it. There's a lot of different and confusing elements to the existing off-street parking permit program and in time, making that simpler and more intuitive will just make it that much easier for tenants and folks who are coming into the downtown and your businesses, particularly in the business district would benefit from that. And lastly, a suggestion that whenever you're thinking about your commercial areas and you're talking about the pricing of parking, think parking. closely about the surrounding nearby residential neighborhoods. There's already some permit protection on residential streets. We really think that anywhere that there may be the potential for dislocated parkers from a busy area seeking an opportunity to go park more cheaply further away, which is a good thing, should not overburden residential streets. So we can institute a program that controls that overflow, parking on the residential streets, so that only a few people are privileged to be able to park there. And with those extra revenues of those permits, actually dedicated to a fund for the benefit of those residential blocks. The details of this program, of course, need to be worked out specifically over time, but it's important to always think about those nearby residents. So that's just running through those quick, 10 areas of recommendation. There's a lot of details. I'm happy to take any questions, but if Justin wants to explain his program in a little bit more detail, we're certainly ready and willing to answer any questions for you. Okay. Justin, you have something you want to add and then we'll just take questions? Yeah, I would just reiterate a couple of things with regards to the implementation of phase one and what we're proposing again. The customer service aspect, I think we've touched on that. Increasing supply, there's some examples of some items we've worked on so far, adding on street spaces on West Avenue in front of Grubbs, leasing spaces behind the old courthouse, opening the love is free parking. working with the Arts Center to Institute bundled parking and prepaid parking for theater goers item four is what I really wanted to make clear the recommendation around the residential benefit improvement district and the demand responsive pricing and You know, the way we're applying this recommendation is proposing to continue and build upon our existing stakeholder groups to discuss what's been recommended. So there's no actual implementation of any of the rate changes or any of these structural changes to our existing programs in phase one. We think we really need to spend some time discussing these items with stakeholders. Upgrading technology we've talked about. I think we've hit on all of the other items. And I would just say lastly that obviously as we move forward with any one specific item will be coming back before you all for you to consider it on its own individual merits. This phased approach, I think, sets us on a clearly defined roadmap for the next 20 months or so and puts forward a good work plan for us to move towards. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions we got? Okay, Justin. I think the biggest problem that we have in this city about parking is, um doesn't have a whole lot to do with the city owned lots it has to do with the private lots and almost probably every complaint i get whether it's people from where i live coming or whether it's outside of town it's about the private lots their um eagerness to put things on people's tires to keep them from going and paying massive fees to the bigger problem of their kiosks either rarely work or they're just pretty lousy from a technology standpoint. Now, that's not city-owned. That's private lots. Just the other day, I was walking... down Dixon Street and somebody talked about how bad the parking was and when I asked him why he said because you're a lot right back here which was behind the Dixon Street Inn which I don't think is our lot or part of it's not. He said your blanking kiosk wouldn't work and you know if they give me a ticket so be it. Thinking that's our lot so my question is how can you summarize how to best go about helping that problem. When we talk about something like this, which I'm all for implementing a plan of some sort, but I'd just like to know that we're addressing that. And I know you can't force somebody that owns a lot to change things because that's not what we can do, I don't think. But what are your thoughts on that? Right. So one of the recommendations, Jason may be able to speak to this, but from my perspective, one of the recommendations is to pursue shared parking agreements with private lot owners, even possibly with those lot owners that currently make their parking publicly accessible, like the ones you're talking about. There's several in the area. Yeah. you know, to the extent they would be willing to enter into some sort of, you know, revenue sharing agreement and become part of our larger system, allow us to take over management and enforcement of the lot with this more what I would call a friendlier approach to enforcement is one strategy. Justin, I might add that signage is also a huge part. So a person knows when they're truly in the city's public lot and when they're in a private public lot for those that we aren't able to work those agreements with. Branding or labeling where the city controls it, that it's clear that we don't boot and we don't tow, right? that we have a different customer service approach and educating people where those are. Do even better wayfinding signage so there's a clear distinction when you're in a city environment and when you're not is also another important part of what this plan talks about that we need to address from a parking branding perspective. It also is about equipment. You know, when the city initially purchased this equipment, it was done in line with the ability for the university Razorback systems to be able to be used so that someone who could operate a machine in one location of the city, since we have 28,000 students on campus, would see something similar, and so the private lots, even for those who don't, We also have an opportunity to discuss and negotiate with them that if they're choosing to manage their own, that they might look at when there's time to replace their equipment, going to systems that at least give us consistency across it. So I think there's multiple opportunities to address it. There are some legal items that we have to address in this that our city attorney's office has brought up that are part of this discussion. But we've been able to successfully negotiate a contract with the University of Arkansas's West annex building for us to manage it. Some of the locations, the negotiations have just really been about. providing access even on a non paid system and our negotiations are about managing litter and trash and things that affect that lot when it gets used more on a public basis so that we can capitalize on parking that is used at the daytime but available at at nighttime to give us even more of that capacity in these counts so I think there's lots of options that we can do. I think we all know where we get the most calls from and we are currently trying to visit with those very locations. in a future discussion with a lot of coordination with the city attorney's office on what we can and cannot do in the state of Arkansas as it relates to this. It's also an economic development item for some people because their lot is an income generator. And so when we talk about wanting consistency in rates, we have to be able to show pro formas, which Jason has helped us. with on why this program might be better and generate the income for them so they're more willing to have that discussion with us. Yet we can't share punitive ideas items, nor do we want our parking program really to be about ticket revenue. We want it to be about people paying for the rent that we identify because it's a more customer service approach, and it's also better for tourism and revisiting our area. So there's some very specific dialogue in this plan around that particular issue, but it does require a two-way negotiation. You know, the city has taken a lot of steps in this avenue. One, we presented legislation that Representative David Whitaker ran for us to limit the dollar amount of towing. We went back and adjusted it booting because we had people with exorbitant prices towing cars to Pea Ridge that cost our money. citizens and visitors a lot of item that now caps where how far someone can do that if they're managing a private lot so we're also taking uh initiative at the state level to be able to give the municipality the opportunity to do that our current ordinance does have some signage requirements, but they're not necessarily all that distinctive between to a citizen when you look at a green sign or a blue sign that it's actually the cities. It's highlighting what that lot does, but not necessarily who owns it to give guidance to what kinds of rules that lot is playing by. And so that's the branding component and education component is a big part of this whole customer service plan to address. the concern you have. I think about the complaints we've gotten in the last, you know, six, 12 months. And very few of them relate to a city lot experience. Most of the time it is something else. And if it is the thing we have now is we're better about training our officers to have an eye towards tourism and customer service. We're better at taking photos of things to show why we did ticketing. We have our technology, which we'll be bringing to you, is also something that we think will allow us to be better. And one of these recommendations in here is also... to address license plate recognition type of parking, which would allow someone to park in a space and move to another space without having to pay again. We have to evaluate all that against our bond revenues and what it generates, but it gives us the ability to be even more customer service on the city operations side. Well, I think the branding is key because once people learn that, they're going to remember it. And if they know, if we have something that says look for the Fiat logo on the parking lots for a safe, easy to navigate, easy to pay environment, once they learn that, then it will trigger them to not pull into that lot, or they can choose to. But if they know they can go on an app and see either availability or location or ease to pay or pay in advance or whatever, only with that lot that has that logo on it, then they'll just look for that one. Yeah, and I think that's why we're targeting our wayfinding signage program, because that would then be consistent throughout the entire region. It'd be clear to everyone that municipal parking is this area. brand and would allow us, whether you're in Bentonville, Springdale Rogers, or Fayetteville, to know what to look for to designate that. And that's important, particularly with our cultural arts district and the number of people that are coming from other parts of the community. Well, I'm proud of the city staff for doing it. I'm proud of what is going on here because when people ask me about it, then I can immediately say this. This is what we're doing about it. And it's, you know, most of the time it's not as bad as anyone thinks, but this will really help. So thank you very much. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm 61 years old and in 61 years I've learned a few things. It is hard to sell something somebody else is giving away for free. When I go to Ruth Chris Steakhouse in Rogers, I park for free. When I go to P.F. Chang's in Rogers, I park for free. When I go to Bentonville Square, I park for free. When I go downtown Springdale, I park for free. When I come to downtown Fayetteville, at one point I had to download an app and try to figure out how to use it so I could pay for my parking. I just punt, and I go south of the mall, where there's all kinds of places to eat, or I go out on MLK, where there's all kinds of places to eat. Don't have to worry about parking. What can we do? Hmm. I have an answer, but I don't want to give it to you. I want you to tell me, what can we do that's going to make me want to come back and eat on Dixon Street? When I do eat on Dixon Street, it's at Bardino's because they have valet parking. I don't have to worry about parking. I want an easy, uncomplicated way to go to dinner. Can you give me that? so I think these recommendations and the phase one objectives that we're trying to achieve have the overarching goal of making parking convenient easy to understand and available at all points in the system so I think we've identified some areas that we can work towards that to improve that and ensure that that is indeed the case No, I just want to reiterate that the concern you speak about is the concern I have heard in every one of over 100 parking studies over the last X number of years. People still, whether it's priced or confusing, are obviously coming into downtown Fayetteville because of what it is. And that's something that all those other locations that you can go to that have free parking will never be able to provide. And that is that it's a place, that it's a thing that we're finding enjoyable, that has a je ne sais quoi you can't find somewhere else, that has different types of shops and services and restaurants. And that will always be the case, and that is always going to be in demand, and that you've had to institute pricing over the years to manage that demand as a sign of success. In the end, though... the success is going at a much faster pace than we're all ready to necessarily, at least historically, adjust for it. And that's often why a study that was done a year ago or so was done, because how do we now move forward and fix it? And what's nice, I think, about what Justin's outlining here is that every one of those 10 points holds those basic tenets true. They will all evolve and the recommendations that Justin evolves over time in coordination with stakeholders and businesses and merchants and hopefully all of you will evolve. It's a program that is designed to address exactly what you're talking about. It's designed to make it simpler. It's designed to make it friendlier for the customer. I cannot say that it will be free to go park in a busy area at the busiest time when everybody else wants to be there, unless you are willing to walk a little bit further. And that's very standard in downtowns across the country. I think there's some... improvements with signing and lighting and technology and management, and certainly the private parking is an opportunity here that you all need to work out. But I think you have a good plan to be able to get to the ease. When you argue that we have unique shops and people want to come and we have a big demand for our downtown area, so they'll maneuver the parking to come to our high-demand culture or whatever it is. I mean, you're kind of saying they're coming in spite of the parking. I mean, of course, most people don't go to a place because of the parking. But I'd like for the parking to be so simple and so inexpensive that it's inconsequential. Right now, I don't think we've achieved that. So in all of your 100 cities that you consult with and all these places, I'm I think that's what millennials want. I think that's what we old people like. It's just ease of transaction. Make it real easy for me to come do business with you. My solution is make it free. Get out of the way and let people park where they can. I agree. I agree. How are you going to pay those bonds off? We've got $10 million. How are you going to pay that off if you don't have paid part and paid off? Mayor, I agree. I agree. We have bonding obligations, so we can't make it free. But that was a mistake I think we made 10 years ago. to go into debt and incur those obligations. And now we're competing with these other cities who have pre-parking and we have paid parking. It doesn't matter how you got there. You're here, right? You got paid bonds. I agree. Mayor, if I can make a point, too, with all due respect, Councilmember Latour, I just simply don't agree with you. And I think you have a perfect example, even personally, about demand and sense of place. There are people who can tailgate at Wilson Park for free. They're further away, but then they would much rather be in a sense of place, closer to the stadium, proximity, the ability to have it be very convenient, restrooms, lots of other things that people pay for. You, the University of Arkansas, the Alumni Association, other individuals who are able to do that. They pay to park in a lot so that they can do that conveniently. That's a perfect example of what we're talking about here today. And I think the other point to make clear is... You're paying for parking when you go to Ruth Chris. You're paying for parking when you go to the mall. There is a cost to those entities to provide that that is in their cost of making back what they invested to put those things in place. People think it's free, but the cost of parking is something that we deal with. It's whether it's included in your pricing or whether it is a standalone item for a user-based situation. And I might just add that many of this council who implemented this item including the mayor since I'm his chief of staff, for three elections, his run on parking. And the second election was 100% the number one item, someone who won with 67% of the vote. I think our people understand what the benefits are There are certainly items we can improve and it is why we are taking the role that we took in this study and why these recommendations need to go into place. But it's an asset that we don't give away for free. And to talk about peer communities of 14 SEC schools, there were only two who didn't have paid parking. It's because they are the types of communities that create the sense of place that people want to attend. Parking can be free if you don't have the demand, which is actually the recommendation in this study. There are parts in our own downtown and entertainment district that should be evaluated if we are willing to have that very demand. difficult discussion about demand-based pricing that today might be in the paid program that could be free in the other because we just simply don't see the demand in those areas. But to offset that for bond payments and to pay for the parking that the city is providing, that these businesses didn't necessarily build in this scenario, we have to be able to recoup and finance that. How many of the parking spaces are privately owned? I mean, do you have that number? How many parking facilities? Spaces. Spaces. 300, 400? Well, the entire city area. No, in the downtown area. The entertainment area? Yep. Anybody got that number? I think it's more than half, but I don't know the number. More than half. Okay. So I want to also make another point that... Private owners were already starting to do paid parking before we ever started to do paid parking. They were already charging in their lots, John. We met with a bunch of business owners on Dixon Street. Steve Clark and I, he was here, and they all said, Mayor, we've been promised a parking deck for 20 years and nobody has brought forward a way to do that parking deck. I said, I have a way, but it's going to take paid parking. They said, okay, fine. Well, everybody was great until we implemented it. And then everybody said, oh, no, we've got to change things. But I'm telling you, we got to a point in time where we passed bonds that we've got to pay for those bonds. This council, most of this council that voted for paid parking is still on this council, many of them, over half. They made that decision then. I mean, and I think Don brings up a great point. You know, the issue is, and the arguments you're using, John, we heard that 10 years ago. And I've run three times for this office. And all two, yeah, three times, two times one of them was paid parking, and that was the big issue. But the people obviously didn't think that was that big a deal at the time. So here we are. And parking, paid parking's not going to go away, but you've got to pay for them bonds. It's just what it is. May I respond? Sure. I don't like arguing this way, but let me point out. With Don, what you said, I agree. There's no such thing as a free lunch. I agree. The cost of parking is going to be paid one way or the other. It's just when the whole city takes on that burden, it tells – we fancy ourselves as a welcoming city. But we tell people visiting us, you're going to have to pay for your parking downtown. It would be a more welcoming city if we said, come and we as the citizens of Fayetteville will pay for the parking for you. That's the more welcoming position. But I agree with your basic theory. Parking has to be paid one way or the other. There's no such thing as free lunch. I'm all about that. But it's just how we pay for it. And I agree. We can't go back. We're here now. So maybe it's just an academic point. But I would rather see us... in a position where we could offer free parking, that would make our downtown, I think, flourish even more for those businesses. Well, that would be a tax increase in donor citizens. And I don't like that either, Mayor. And I think that was the debate that we actually had at this council is, is this going to be paid by the citizens and their taxes, or is this going to be paid by the users benefiting from the service? Exactly. Well... Can I just volunteer one other point? You have a great debate here, but I think there's one essential point that is worth considering. No downtown that has tried to and then successfully implemented demand-responsive pricing, or in downtowns where I've worked, where they once had meters in the 50s, ripped them out, and have since put them back in, did that for raising revenue. they benefited for raising revenue. And ultimately, you will benefit if you price a little bit more responsibly to demand as I think you already need to. But that wasn't the end game. The end game was actually for those visitors and customers to actually be able to find a parking space. Yes. Because when it's all free and it's as cool as your entertainment district is, I will never find a parking space in it as an outsider. Unless it's nothing but parking garages and then I'm not coming because it's going to look pretty ugly. So that trade-off is what downtowns have been doing for a long time. And you know who the number one constituents would get behind every one of these pricing plans? The downtown merchants, because they see the new curb spaces that are opened up as a result of pricing and as opportunities for their customers to get in, when before their customers couldn't find access. And in every one that I've studied, parking activity has increased, retail sales have gone up, people have become happier. Remember, we're not all gonna go pay $2 an hour or whatever it is to park. But me as an outsider, I'll happily pay that to be able to go to some of your places in the entertainment district. Okay. Sarah, I believe you're on. Thank you. I'd also like to raise a point that, you know, downtown Springdale, downtown Bentonville, they're not within walking distance of a campus that has, how many, 25,000 roughly students? And I was just looking at the U of A parking prices. And the cheapest spots are for a scooter at $66 a year, but it goes all the way up to parking garage space for $879 a year now if I'm a student looking to save some money I think I'd go leave my car on Dixon Street all day so that I could stop at the bar on the way home and as someone who did work on Dixon Street while I was in college I worked at the 1936 Club and they were fortunate enough to have a few private parking spaces but the ownership wouldn't let us park there so we go park in front of Doe's and so then there was no availability for their customer base And so I think the benefit of having paid parking is that it does make people judicious with where they leave their car. They're not going to go leave their car there all day out of convenience. It incentivizes employees to find further away places to park. And still people like me who don't have a lot of disposable income, I park further away. I'll leave my car at the middle district and I'll walk up the trail. You can park at the public library and walk over. So there are still options for people who don't have a lot of money and don't want to pay to park. But I think it's important to have those higher fees in front of those businesses so that there's turnover and the customers can access them. So I think this is an excellent plan and I look forward to us implementing it. Um, and with that, well, I guess we've got other comments, but I was going to motion. Okay. Kyle, I believe you're next. Um, I think you get what you pay for, but you also pay for what you use. Um, and like Sarah said, I'm cheap. I will happily go downtown and park further away. I, I enjoy walking around from the square down to Dixon, so I don't mind parking up here for that. Um, If valet is your thing, further down in the plan, there's talk about broadening valet parking. That's not on phase one, I don't think, but it's in there. I think it's our job to make sure that despite paid parking or maybe because of it, that Dixon Street stays the type of place we want to be. And I hope if you've got ideas, you want to keep them to yourself. Yeah. Yeah, this is about, like you said, you made the case that we have things that they don't have, and people are going to come here because of that, as long as we keep that up. Since there's nobody else, well, okay. Okay, John. I can't have three, make it simple, would you? Okay, all right, let's take some public comment. Who'd like to address us on this? Hi, my name is Theresa Turk. I agree, you get what you pay for and Would like it to be to be free, but we can't have that But the one request that I do have is when you're doing your analysis Could you actually look at the days of the week and what your parking usage is? I saw the hours, but I didn't see days of week and it sure would be nice to have Sundays be free That would be a nice thing. I got a ticket the other day on a Sunday a rainy Sunday evening It never occurred to me that I needed to pay because it was a Sunday so That's my two cents worth. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Catherine Galloway, 609 West Dixon. And thank you for the opportunity to be here. And thank you so much for taking the parking issue so seriously. Living right there on Dixon, it's a lot of concern. And one of the things, actually, my hometown is in Texas. I'm used to traffic and parking problems and traffic. What we're used to is the more you have to park for a place, the more desirable it is as a rule. But one of the things that brought us here is the safety, the relative safety and walkability of the entertainment district. And the parking is readily available. I walk by it all the time. It is confusing, I'll grant you that. But in my mind at night, the walkability is becoming less viable because of security. And I have questions about how security factors into the parking lots. And then another question I have is... about the viability of ride-sharing services and the accessibility for them. I think I've read things that have been discussed here before where ride-share services cause log jams on Dixon Street, and so wondering if there's any way to build in accessibility for them. Okay. Justin, do you all have any answers for that? Sure. With respect to the ride sharing, particularly on West Avenue, West and Watson, the police department actually identified some traffic congestion issues and we've been working with them to convert temporarily on Friday and Saturday evenings some of the traffic congestion issues. on-street parking spaces right there on Watson Street, five on-street parking spaces to make them temporary loading zones so that Ubers, taxis, anyone else dropping off passengers can not convene on West Avenue. You can pull onto Watson Street and have a more designated place to pick folks up and drop folks off. Yeah. We're certainly sensitive to that and appreciate those concerns and are willing to work with everyone involved to improve congestion in the area. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Before I make a motion to go to the next reading, I'll share my thoughts. I really appreciate the little bit of the back and forth that's happened tonight because I think it's something we can anticipate whenever we move through the stakeholder meetings going forward. I want to talk a little bit about two things, first being kind of the report generally and second being what might come next with those stakeholder meetings. The report generally, the way this happened was we were doing the citywide mobility plan a couple of us got a note from the dixon street merchants in the walton art center asking us to study parking and they pulled together a bullet list of items they'd like us to study and we more or less just handed that straight over the consultants and said let's figure this out And whenever we started to get the report back, you know, you're seeing the results tonight, but I think of it as a little bit of a come-to-Jesus report for the city and the way we've been managing our parking. I think there's no question that paid parking, you know, HMR revenues downtown have been growing year over year at healthy rates since we implemented paid parking. So I don't think it had, certainly in the long run, any detrimental effect on the entertainment district or the area around the square. And the proof is in the data. But I also think that a lot of the criticisms leveled at the city for the way we were communicating about the system and the way it was structured were legitimate. And the report was very clear-eyed about that without doubt. being judgmental or using the kind of loaded language that exists in politics or the kinds of conversations we're used to having one-on-one. The report was just about the facts and it's just about the facts. And for me that's probably the most beneficial part of adopting the report and having the report for us is now we have a clear plan to fix what's legitimately what are legitimate weaknesses with the system and make it stronger for everybody. I would vote if the vote was tonight, I'd go farther on delineating or distinguishing some of the more predatory private lots from the lots that are under city management. Maybe that's something we can talk about in the future because I do think that's our number one branding issue with this. Well, keep in mind that this resolution is not – Absolutely. The second thing is when we talk about what's going to come forward with talking about repricing some things, I guess I want to work on this a little bit because I think that there are extraordinary arguments for taking that approach. First, I think just from a conservative ideological perspective, things should be transparently priced. People should know what the costs for things are and they should be priced according to the demand that exists for them, whether we're talking about cheeseburgers or houses or parking. We treat parking as a public good or we have in the past and we provide it for air quotes free. We've already talked tonight about how that's paid for, but whenever we make it free everywhere, regardless of demand, it really does distort the market. And we don't want a third of our traffic downtown being circulation looking for parking because that's a metric of how confusing it is. So I envision a future for Dixon Street or for the Square where you come off of college or you come from the South or you come from the University and it's very clear how much it costs to pay by the hour on Dixon Street or in the West Avenue lot, in the most demanded – in the areas that are under most demand. And it's also very clear that if you would just turn one block down the street, it's going to be cheaper. And when you get there, it's also very clear if you would just turn a second or a third block down the street that it's going to be free. And so we don't have that now. But if we did, I think it would be simple. And I also think that it's right for us to price parking, especially according to demand. Right now, in most cities in the U.S. and in most places in Fayetteville, we have expensive housing for people and free housing for cars. And there's something that's really backwards about that. And I think if we're talking about a place where literally... 2,000 people might want to park in the same lot because it's a 30-second walk from a 1,400-seat theater that's showing a Broadway play. They should expect that they're going to pay relative to the demand. If they don't want to pay, it should be very simple to move down the street or move down the block two or three times so they get to something that's priced lower or priced free. So I'm really looking forward to this. I think this is a real milestone. This is probably, I think, as big a milestone as actually instituting the program in the first place. And I think that we should all be proud of this particular report and implementing it because this is the normal way that things get better. Paid parking was a complicated thing and we did it all at once. And there were going to be some speed bumps. Yeah. And now we've figured out how to fix some of those things. So let's get them fixed. And then in five years, we'll probably be back talking about the next round of stuff we need to fix. And that's a normal thing to do. So I'm proud to do it. And I'm moving past the resolution. All right. But, John, I will say this. You'll get a chance to see how welcoming you are in about two or three weeks. All right. We're going to see how welcoming we all are in about two or three weeks. All righty. Let's see. Sarah, I believe. I think the second through. Well, we got it. Second the motion to approve. So, Matthew, you motioned, and Sarah, you seconded, right? We good? All right. I would ask we have any final comments but I think we pretty well. Mayor. I'm sorry. I do have my name. Yes ma'am. There was one thing that our public person did mention that was not addressed and that's security. Well, Dulles, if I could, there are a couple of things. One in the actual draft plan, which is on our city's website for those who want to pull this more detailed factbook data. because i think miss kirk on this turk we can get some additional information for you on days per week uh we did collect that data uh to look at it in terms of our demand and and when lots change weekdays and there's a question on where sunday's placed in that just uh for your so you know we are looking at it the other item is uh street classification street networks lighting uh... sidewalk connectivity is very much a part of this plan to speak to our residents concern about how safe and walkable it is to go to these locations. And as the mayor has talked about in his State of the City address, I think part of the discussion that we will have with this council sometime this year or at the end of this year will be what portions of this plan that relate to street safety, lighting and security, will Do we want to fund in a potential bond issue for the citizens to prioritize? That's an item that he's talked about as a priority to him and we're paying for studies. So how do we get some of these things in place? And then is Chief Tabor still here? Obviously he has shared with you all many times about our emphasis on security and permitting and working with the ABC and how we staff and look at the needs of this area because it is a primary destination. And we all know how important safety is for anyone who wants to come to your city when we read about events that take place around this country. And so I know that they've been... committed and provided resources to that in case you have a question for him but security and safety is something that the mayor talks about every Monday every Monday at 9 a.m. with his three Chiefs, myself, Chief of Staff, our Police Chief, our Fire Chief, our CFO, Chief Financial Officer, and our Chief Communications Person. It's something that we visit all the time. But specifically to this plan, there are maps in here about street classifications, gaps. problems, problem areas, lighting needs to get to some of these free areas because those of us that do walk that, like Council Member Marsh and myself and Kyle and the Mayor, we experience those items. We also had this come up at the Town & Gown, Council Member Kenyon heard this the other day in the Town & Gown of these same areas and the importance of where we should target people for walking and lighting and safety. So for the citizen concerned about that is an integral part of this plan and a discussion you all will have with the potential upcoming bond issue. And I don't know, Greg, if you want to add anything just to go back to what we've done currently. As probably all of you know, we've had two officers work Dixon Street for years and years. We recently increased two to four. So there's four officers work Dixon Street in the evening nighttime hours. We've also been having regular meetings with the Dixon Street Merchants Association talking about lighting and all kinds of things. We've worked with the university to increase some lighting on some buildings they own. We work with specific building owners to get lighting on the outside of their buildings. We've installed some cameras actually on Dixon Street that are piped right into dispatch so we can see what's going on right at any given minute. As Justin talked about, we're having a lot of problems with Uber and taxis clogging up the roads. at closing time at 2 a.m., and we work with them, and hopefully we've got that taken care of. So we've been doing a lot in the last few months to increase the safety and security on Dixon Street. And I want to say I don't have any question about that because I had talked with the chief, and we've talked about this from time to time. I just wanted the public to know what all we are doing, and I think that sounds great. We do have direct contact with the Dixon Street business. I'm sure you've not been meeting with them yet. That's right. I know that you expressed some concerns and we've been working on that.
 Okay. Well, Deli, you have a final... Okay, you have nothing. All right. I mean, you're off the thing now. Any other final comments? All right. Sunwich, please go on the road. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Fletcher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. John, what shall I do with you? All right. Mayor, before you go on, if I could just say one big thank you to Justin and his team, to Peter Nearingarden who managed our parking division during this study time, and to the Jason and Nelson Nygaard and their work on this plan. I think it's factually based, and they did an excellent job, and it was a lot of time. And I also want to thank our stakeholders, the Walton Arts Center, the Dixon Street Merchants, the general public, our parking users, our residential individuals who all provided input into this plan on what those concerns were. It's why we think we've got a good roadmap for you all to talk about. We laid out a whole list of stuff to do at the first of the year and the staff has really done some fantastic work. Energy action plans and parking plans and smoking thing and smoke-free parks. We've got a few more coming up that I know you're going to enjoy. Let's see. All right, moving along. We'll get a vote here first, don't we? We already voted, didn't we? Sorry, sorry, sorry. It was. It was good. It was good. Number A, resolution authorizes Mayor Jordan to sell about .04 acres of city property south of George and Jessica Lowne and west of railroad tracks to the highest or best bidder. Debtor. Good evening, Mayor, City Council. My name is Devin Howland, Director of Economic Vitality. And the item for you for your consideration is bid 1820, which proposes the sale of municipally owned property in downtown Fayetteville, approximately 1,689 square feet of it. The property was posted for competitive bidding following council direction back in December. The property was open for competitive bidding for three weeks and closed February 20th. the property is .04 acres it has frontages on north powerhouse avenue and an appraisal was ordered in january which we received and the lot has a value of seventeen thousand dollars or four hundred and thirty nine thousand dollars per acre two bids were received brian crown holdings for the amount of ten thousand twenty five dollars which is the valuation at 258 000 per acre the intended use is for a small deck tucked into the trees ideal for events picnic area for artists musicians at Georgia's community benefits. He listed that to maintain a safe and properly kept area free from drainage and debris and to add lighting for public safety. Conditions of his bid were a deadline of 120 days outside of closing outside of the big close which puts it at June 20th. The second bid was from Underwood's Fine Jewelry for the amount of $25,203. This is a valuation of $650,000 per acre. The intended use has no immediate plans to develop. However, they stated long-term use could be used for employee parking if they were to lose their current parking lease. As a Dixon Street business of over 60 years, they recognize the importance of preserving parking. Community benefit of their bid is to preserve the viability of Underwood's jewelry to continue doing business on Dixon Street. Staff is recommending and aligning with the Sustainability Department's original recommendation to retain the property. Utilizing the property for parking potentially could impact the seven mature trees that are located on this 1,600-square-foot parcel. Furthermore, staff is recommending to at least retain the property until the completion of the Design Excellence Grant work is done to ensure it's not needed as part of the project and to further establish the compatibility of proper uses against the Design Excellence Grant. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Yeah, could you, I think I heard you correctly, but could you restate just so we're absolutely clear, the recommendation is to not sell the property right now? Correct. Until the design excellence grant design work is done, that way we can see what are proper uses. At that point, even if the property did need to go back out to rebid, the council could set parameters inside of that bid saying, okay, we don't want the trees to be removed if it's sold, et cetera. i might add councilmember petty that remember that the state law about disposing of property from the city all kind of starts with the property value is over 20 or under 20 and so the city can entertain individual offers for property without bidding them if it's over 20 then it must bid those and one i guess benefit of this exercise anyway is that we at least now have a appraisal price for this 0.4 acres that's established. So you really have the option of doing it either way later, but we think it's important to wait until we see what the design excellence program is going to be. And frankly, the two interested parties that bid are across from each other and they're both long-term businesses in the city of Fayetteville. They give you the option to decide where to go with that in the future. Okay, what questions we got for that? Okay, what public comment do we probably have the applicants here maybe the people attempting to buy it Is the applicants here? They didn't say or bidders I should say I'm Craig Underwood of Underwood Steelers and we put a bid in it was a high bid on there we did it for parking as I stated in the application and I moved here in 1987, and at the time we did not have parking next to our store that was owned by University Auto Gas Station. We rented spaces from them. We had eight spaces that we had from them, and then we also rented parking for me and my staff down at George's. along their side parking lot. Over time, the gas station reduced our parking from eight to four, and as the management changed and ownership of Georgia's changed, they encouraged us to look elsewhere for parking. During the years we only had four parking spaces for our customers there for Underwoods, we had a significant hit in sales. It definitely took its toll on us. We eventually were able to negotiate buying the property next to our store, so we have parking now that we own on the east side of the store. We still don't have parking for all of our staff. We are renting that from the parking deck with the Dixon next door. That's fine now, but if we were to ever be in a position like we were before where those get taken away from us, it... limits our viability as an ongoing business on Dixon Street and our position in the community of being able to support through sales tax and support through gifts and other things we've done through the community. The property was put up for sale. I guess I don't really understand why it was put up for sale if there was no intent to sell it, number one. Number two, I can tell you as an appraiser myself, a written appraisal is only worth the value of the paper is written on the true value of something that's what somebody's willing to pay i have put out a bid for over 25 000 that goes over the value of what the state does that is a solid bid of what i would be willing to pay for that property and knowing that it did go up for sale that it was recommended that it be put up for sale i've put the highest bid on it and i believe i should be awarded that thank you okay anyone else Oh, what questions? Council got any questions for the applicant or staff? Any public comment on the sale of the land? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. There you are. Justin. Well, and I brought this forward because I was approached by a Dixon Street business owner who was curious if we would sell it. i had never done that before up here and uh was was uh had a lot of help from city staff they did a great job at sort of telling me how this worked and um honestly when we talked about it i think if i remember right it was council member petty who brought up um and i'm not i don't want to put words here but you i think you said something effective you don't know what something may or may not be worth until you put it out there and see um And he was right. I actually thought erroneously that Georgia's would be the only one that could possibly want it because of where it is and what it is. And then I thought, I'm sure they're going to be the only one on Dixon Street that's been there for 50 plus years that might want this spot. And then I hear that the two, I would say. crown jewel businesses, albeit a bit different from each other. Two of the most respected businesses, you know, not only here but anywhere, both want this land. I was very surprised. I do want to say that the resolution to sell it, I wasn't as educated as I should have been on the Design Excellence Grant and what that plus our mobility study and some other things might mean to that spot given where it is. So my idea was without any other reason than someone asked me, but I certainly after this many years i don't know what it would hurt to wait until we get some of the the reports back so i appreciate city staff giving their recommendation and and even though i i sort of brought this forward i'm looking forward to seeing those results and some of those things that might come from it and if we need to have another discussion then i think that's okay to have a discussion and to the chief staff point now we have a document that gives us some guidance to what it could or couldn't be worth But but I do think now seeing what? What comes of it and then making the decision of the best use of it? Is a good idea. So thank you for the city staff doing doing that job Okay, I just wondered how many trees did you say would have to be cut? Oh Or could possibly be cut? How many trees are on that? It would be sheer speculation. They could utilize it and trees not be impacted. All I can report on is there are seven on it currently. Seven? Yes, ma'am. Seven. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Sarah. Thank you. You know, in thinking about the future of downtown, I think this is a great opportunity to add a new attraction and I look forward to seeing what the design district and what we decide to do with that parking lot. you know while i i do respect mr underwood's request for parking i used to work in your building for many years at jennings mckee architect so i understand and i appreciate your your very solid offer but i think we owe it to our citizens to wait until we have a plan for this area and hope that this can bring a new attraction and not just add more parking to support an existing attraction so i i'm going to vote um to deny i guess i'll vote against the motion so thank you Mayor, I just want to clarify, when this council had its debate. The resolution is to not sell the property, right? Well, you would just vote against the resolution, right? The resolution is to sell the property. The recommendation is not to sell the property, right, down there from staff. I just want to remind the public, and particularly since a strong business person in our town, talked about the city putting this up. If you go back and review the minutes, there was a lot of discussion by the council at that point that just by putting it to bid did not mean that you had to sell it and that if you decided that you, because I think three or four of you talked about not only the design excellence grant, but about the possibility of it being an even higher value for someone to look at for housing. The city attorney told you at that point that you could accept the highest bid or you could reject and decide not to take any of the bids and not sell the land and so whenever we list that we have that option um both before you and so it's not by by going through this process i didn't commit you to do it that's part of the entire bidding and posting process okay all right A no vote is to not support the resolution itself properly. Right. Okay. All right. We need a motion and a second, please. Well, the resolution is to sell. I guess, how would we go about that? Just make a motion? Yeah, you have two options if you don't want to pass the resolution. One is someone to move to pass it and someone second it, and then it doesn't get enough votes to pass. Number two, you can move to table it indefinitely, which will effectively pretty much kill this, but it doesn't actually get denied until December 31st of this year. Okay. So, there, Adela, you're next on. I move that we pass the resolution. Okay. Sarah? No. That doesn't have to attend. I don't want to be in the public record for that one. Well, then, somebody can make a motion to table indefinitely. Mm-hmm. We could do that. Sarah? It could die for a lack of second. If nobody's going to second it, it's off. All right. Okay. Okay. Okay. So we have a motion to sell property, right, Adela? You made the motion. We don't get a second. Right, right. Okay. Okay. Well, that's right. Don't we need another motion? Another motion. I guess we need that other motion. I move we table indefinitely. All right. We have a second. Kyle? Second. All right. We have a motion to second the table indefinitely. Sandra, would you please call the roll? March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. The item before you is the consideration of the sale of 0.1 acres of city-owned property on Razorback Road. This is north of Sligo Street for $5,000 to John Christopher Looney and Mariah Dawn Johnson. The city staff was approached about the sale of the city-owned property from the surrounding property owner. This piece of property was acquired during the expansion of Razorback Road in 1995. Chris Looney and Mariah Johnson acquired the property immediately to the north of the parcel last year from the Arkansas Department of Transportation. An appraisal was done at that time for the property immediately north, allowing staff to establish a value of the property of $3,300, less than the amount required for formal competitive bidding. Their offer letter is for $5,000, $1,700 over appraised value. Furthermore, they have made a commitment not to use the trees on their property towards their pre-preservation plan. There was one very large, and we believe it is a silver maple, on the city-owned property, and they have committed not to take that down. Their plan is to build a single traditional form duplex on the property, though these plans are very early at this point in time. I'd be happy to answer any questions, but the applicant is also here as well. Mr. Looney, if you'd like to speak to him. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Appleton, would you like to say a few words? Please let me know if you don't hear me through the microphone, but I haven't adjusted. But first, I just wanted to say thank you to the mayor and the city council. I have an immediate family that works for her city, and I know the long hours that she puts in and the self-sacrifice. So she's been working for 30 years, so I think she's watching probably right now. But I wanted to say thank you because I know there's a lot of self-sacrifice. And sorry, my wife could not be here tonight. She has a speaking engagement tomorrow early in the morning out of state, or she would be here. Thank you. But yeah, I'd be more than happy to answer any questions. I will reiterate that, you know, I don't plan to use any of the trees for the 20% tree canopy that is there and the 24 inch, I think it is a silver maple. on there I don't have any intention of touching. It's a beautiful tree. It's right there on the line between what I purchased and the city and so I have no intention of touching that tree. I'd like to use it in the landscaping design as well as the others that are on the city-owned property but it seems to make sense on what I purchased through the Arkansas State Highway to the north and what I have to the west for it to be a more complete piece of property. Also wanted to address I'm watching the agenda meeting last week that there was a concern or an issue maybe of since we're the proximity of Town Branch Creek. I wanted to let you know that I've looked into storm retention and looked into that. And although it is very early, as Devin said, to all my plans and my budget and everything, I certainly want to help the... the area and if there is a way i can do that i personally use just real kind of small things like rain barrels at my own house but if there's a way to do maybe a retention swall or a retention pond in there i certainly would look into it or explore those options it's just kind of hard at this moment to explore without i can commit to exploring all those options but it's hard to to do anything at this moment but i'll feel free to answer any questions you might have what questions do we have Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. Thank you. I have not heard any comments from the neighborhood in opposition to this. I think it's a good use of what is currently underutilized land, and I appreciate the... the owner um or the the proposed buyer um taking into consideration the sensitive nature of the site and our watershed and the tree canopy there and i uh with that i move that we approve the resolution yeah i second that motion all right any final comments from the council all right sandra would you please call the road Marsh? Yes. Hinnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LeTierre? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number 10, an ordinance to amend 74.0 on application regulations to add a definition of roadway. Yeah. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Section 7401 from application of regulations to application of regulations and definitions, places the existing wording in subsection and enacts a new subsection as follows. Quote, subsection B, as used in this chapter, quote, roadway, unquote, will mean that part of the right, that part of the right-of-way between the furthest curb or edge of the pavement on one side of the road to the furthest curb or edge of pavement on the other side of the road and shall include any median between lanes of travel, unquote. Chief Tabor had some questions to me about whether or not medians would be covered within our other normal ordinance saying that people aren't supposed to walk into the streets, especially highways and arterials. And when I looked at the statute, I thought, or the ordinance, I thought that we had covered that, but it wasn't crystal clear. And therefore, I decided I needed to have a definition of roadway that would make it crystal clear. And I think the chief might want to explain what situations he has seen that seem to be fairly unsafe. for people walking onto the roadway or standing in the median. And this ordinance is directed purely for the safety reasons so that we can prevent accidents and injuries. Like the city attorney said, he brought this forward after I asked him to help us determine exactly what the definition of a roadway was to make sure we were enforcing this ordinance consistently department wide. We've seen a large increase in people being in the median of different roadways. Some of them are what I would call ground. grass media and some of them are in very, very small raised pieces of concrete. The word might be just a stop sign is or something. We believe that's very dangerous. They're standing in places unattended. It's kind of like there's a lot there about writing in places unattended, like in the bed of a pickup. So we think standing in these places that are not intended for standing is very dangerous. unsafe not only for the person standing there but I think we all know there's enough distractions when you're driving now by putting on your makeup and talking on your cell phone and eating your cheeseburger that there's a lot of distractions out there and so I think the last thing we need is another distraction for a driver trying to see what somebody's doing trying to determine what their intentions are and those types of things so that's why I initially brought this to the city attorney for his opinion. Thank you. Chief, how many accidents or injuries have we had in the last 10 years that are attributable to people being in the medians? I have no idea. It's not something I looked at. I can tell you in 2017 we had 41 calls of just some, the word of someone being in a median, but I don't know how many of those were accidents, how many of them were just people reporting someone in the median or not. I didn't look that information up. Okay, I would really like to have that information because I'm hearing concerns from my constituents that this is really about criminalizing panhandling. And I realize that panhandling is very uncomfortable for many of us, but I think that the way to address it is not to make a $500 fine for standing out there. Instead, we need to address the root cause, which is poverty and unemployment and underemployment. So until I see some some numbers that show that this is actually a problem, I'm not going to support this ordinance. And I feel like this issue is better addressed dealing with poverty. Well, let's start with the first reading. Okay. Well, I can tell you that there's many, many people out there that are panhandling outside of meetings and stuff like that, and we've definitely not criminalized them. There's not been any citations that I'm aware of wrote for anything like that. Mayor, I want to add, I really think that it concerns me to hear a statement like that because it implies that that is the staff's intention. Our concern on this is safety. We're just as concerned about the safety of a panhandler in the middle of the road as we are a pedestrian. And when you have people... texting and the number of, we've written over 146 tickets of people texting and driving when you have the distracted individual and you have people standing longer periods of time, not in a pedestrian crossing aspect, it is a real safety issue. It isn't a target of reducing panhandling. In fact, if a person is doing that, we direct them to where they are allowed to do that safely and legally. The items that we're talking about are items that are typically raised concrete dividers between lanes or truly a triangle put in the middle of the road to hold a stop sign, not to be used as a pedestrian standing permanent location. So just to be clear for the public that does watch it. It may have an impact on someone whose intention is to do that, but they're being directed and moved because of their safety, not because of what they're doing. And we're actually telling them where they can do that activity safely. And I think if you looked at these locations and tour around them, you'll see that in many of these areas, they're not even, you know, there's areas that are in the middle of a parking lot to medium. One you can go look at is at Hardee's. on College Avenue that people stand in that we've not asked people to remove. It's a wide median. It's at a stoplight location. That's very different than Joyce Boulevard in a two-and-a-half-foot width with signs in it about turning lanes and the safety of the people standing in those locations in what is one of our busiest intersections. And so... i don't want anyone thinking that the staff's target is payment we're very clear on the city attorney's uh position and opinion of the supreme court ruling we allow it to happen we don't go out and move them but we do have a concern on safety okay just and just to reiterate so so Chief, this will still allow multiple intersections to be used if someone so chooses to do something like a panhandle or something like that. It doesn't cover every single thing. It's more like what he talked about, smaller areas, smaller spaces that we're trying to keep people safe in. Well, no, I don't think that's actually correct. I don't think it would allow you to do it in the roadway at any location. But obviously, you could be on the side of the road and do it at just about any location in town. Okay. Well, case in point, after Church Sunday, I took family to Jason's Deli. It's amazing when you have all-you-can-eat ice cream, the amount of kids that you can get. But we were coming out of there at Joyce Boulevard, and there is a small— concrete divider when you can turn left from college into that area. And there was a man there selling, I don't know, whatever, selling water or something, asking for money. And he had an ice chest with wheels on it. Well, when he moved it, it rolled off and I saw three cars somehow not run into each other turning from the red light, because some people go through that red light, but the accident that could have happened there, and he ran out to get it to try to stop it, a car almost hit him. And I remember thinking, this is what this is about for me. Because it's not about helping him, Any more than it's the people in the car. They're not doing anything wrong. They weren't texting. They were just trying to turn left and this this got out of control from this guy. Had he been on some of the other areas with their wider and and and I would say safer to do that. We wouldn't have had it. So. I don't really have a question, but that sort of cleared this up for me when I saw that happen in front of me and thought, this could have been horrendous. The ice bucket that he had, the ice chest barely even fit on that, this wide of a deal. And when it got away and turned over and rolled away and he went for it, three cars slammed on their brakes and we almost had a major, major, major problem. I think it's our intent not only to make it safer for those three drivers you're talking about, but for him or her also when they dive out in the street to... get whatever got away from him. Yeah, I really thought he was going to get hit, and I really thought the two cars were going to collide and the car hit him. It was going to be really, really bad. So I support this, not for any other reason than I think in those small areas, no one's crossing the street right there, so it's not an area where someone could stand in across the street. And it's, I think it's a good thing. I understand the intent is safety. And Kit, my question is, is there some way that we can better maybe amend this? Because whenever you read it, you can possibly see that it could be interpreted to criminalize a person panhandling. And I don't know if there's a better way to state the intent is not to criminalize panhandling in the language that if there is... I sure would like to... All this does is define what the roadway is. I know. Okay? And it's already against the law to jaywalk and do things like that. It's against state law because of safety issues. It's already against our other ordinance to get into roadways of arterial streets or highways, not every street. That's what is already in our ordinance, and it is purely for safety. Okay. And I think that what you have to do is rely a little bit on our Fayetteville Police Department to make sure that they are looking at safety issues and not something else. But on the other hand, it's not proper to – if you're getting on that median on College Avenue between where Joyce comes in, how do you get there? Right. There's no crosswalks there. And so we're encouraging people to be unsafe if we let them stand there because they have to be unsafe to cross there. And that's against state law to jaywalk at that point. And so we would rather – there's lots of places that people can go and panhand legally in the city. We don't really want people taking big safety chances for themselves and others by getting in these unsafe areas and medians in these small raised areas to endanger themselves and others. We don't have to wait for somebody to get killed to pass this. I don't think. And Don kind of hit on this a second ago, but I can promise you that every Fayetteville police officer knows what our city attorney's opinion is about the legalities of panhandling and what the Supreme Court ruling is about the legalities of panhandling. And we know that today, but this will go in as an ordinance and we don't know that 20 years from today. You know what I'm saying? I know what you're saying, but hopefully that every who... That's just... That's a word hopefully you don't like, I'm sure. But, you know, I mean, I think it's not a big leap. I mean, there's thousands of Supreme Court rulings that allow us to do what we do or what we don't do. And, I mean, those change every day. And I think we're pretty up to speed on those as they occur. And I know the intent of this. And I know that it's in earnest. And I know that it's about safety. But... There has been a lot of discussion on this and we have been approached by a lot of people and I have a lot of concern of that That side of the argument as well Are we targeting and how can we guarantee that it is not going to be used as to target? And I don't know the answer, but I'll be thinking about it since this is the first reading and I've been thinking about it. And I have actually been defending it as all of us have because we know the intent today that you pass an ordinance and then how is it 20 years from now? being in the median, not what they're doing in the median. Okay, I hear you. And I would say, Alderman, no, Councilmember Kenyon, sorry. Cut that out. If there's a problem in 10 years or 20 years, then it's up to the city council at that point in time to fix it, just like there was a problem in our previous ordinance which needed a definition, and that's why I drafted one and brought it to you. You've got to also have a little confidence in our democratic system and the city councils in the future that if problems crop up, they will be there to fix them. Okay, Sarah. So I think what really got me this weekend, I was coming down the bypass or the I-49, as it's now known, and turning onto MLK. But, you know, you get on that off-ramp, and then you're waiting to turn on MLK, and there was a gentleman there soliciting donations. And, you know, when we think about what is defining a roadway, it's, Is that entire corridor of on-ramps and off-ramps getting on and off the I-49 considered a roadway from curb to curb? And so then where he was standing would have been illegal, and he could have been ticketed. What's he standing actually in the road? I'm sorry. Based on what I've seen, where – gentleman or numerous people stand there every day that is definitely by what I've read in this definition is not in the roadway yeah and I would agree with the table on that okay because I guess that's what that was is what's unclear because you know that it acts as one roadway corridor this definition talks about from the curb to the curb right so that's the curb it's it doesn't encompass that entire interchange from curb to curb it's just I see what you're saying. MS. Yeah. And so that's what I'm looking at is that clarity of, you know, what are we defining as the roadway? Is it the interchange or is it the individual loads of traffic? MR. It could be from the very east curb on Futrell to the very west curb on Shiloh, I think is what you're saying. MS. Exactly. MR. And I would say no, that's not a good interpretation of this. MS. Okay. MR. That sure wouldn't be my interpretation of it. MS. Okay. Because that's what it – that's how I read it is to interpret that as a roadway because it functions as a roadway. Okay, thank you. Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. We have to rely on the police. And Chief Daver, I rely on you every day. Thank you for protecting our families and our people. And I think every time I exit I-49, there's usually someone at the exit asking for money or selling water or flowers or something. And I'm always concerned that, you know, we're exiting unauthorized. 40, 50 miles an hour. We're slowing down for the stop sign at the end of the exit ramp, but we're coming off pretty fast. And I always feel like they're in harm's way the closer they are to the roadway. Now, this ordinance will not stop that. But where they're inside that roadway, they really are in danger. And I agree with Kit Williams. Let's not wait till somebody gets killed to enact something like this. trust our police that they won't unconstitutionally apply the ordinance. I'm sure that's a concern of theirs. So I strongly support the ordinance. Okay. Kyle? Like Mark had said, I don't question the intent of the ordinance, but I worry about the perception and also some of our priorities. If it's perceived as targeting – the poor, the panhandlers. I want to make sure that we're providing services for that first before we go after criminalizing that. Now, the safety issue is definitely a real concern. You said there were 41 calls? I think that's the number I remember. Do you know where those have happened? What intersections are we talking about? Who's impacted by them? Well, I've got them right here. Hang on just a second. A lot of them were the Joyce and College intersection, and a lot of them didn't give the actual location. But let me look here real quick and see if I can tell you just a quick glance where some of them were. I'll get my glasses out of my pocket. College and Joyce, College and Township, 2720 Weddington, College and Roland Hills, Garland and Weddington, Zion and College. 3729 North Crossover, 1431 South School. And so that's just, you know, so, you know, obviously Zion's on the north end, South School's on the south end, and so pretty much everywhere between. But you know, at quick glance, it does appear most of them are at your Rowan Hills and College, Townsend and College, or Joyston College intersections. I guess my concern is that if the only complaints we're getting and the only people that are going to be impacted by it are panhandlers, whether our intent is that or not, that's the impact, And then what are we talking about? All we would ask that person to do is move from the median to the edge of the road. So we wouldn't be keeping them. If that's the case, we wouldn't be keeping them from panhandling. We would just be asking them to move to the edge of the road, and they would be allowed to continue doing what they were doing. And would the citation come before or after they're asked to move? Well... That's hard to say. I mean, officers use discretion every day, whether they're stopping you for speeding or stopping you because you got marijuana in your pocket. You know, I would hope to think that if our records management system is very robust, it keeps track of all the warnings, all the citations we would give. And so I would hope at least the very first time for sure, and maybe on past that we would give warnings. But at some point, you know, if we look in the system and you've been warned about it three, four, five, six times, at some point you are going to get a citation. That sounds reasonable. Thank you. Mayor, do you want to add a comment? Because I don't want misinformation getting out. The city contributes over $600,000 to homeless services, over $450,000 for housing with a veterans housing focus. And we also have roughly $200,000 for various homeless services, including contributions to Seven Hills Homeless. So when you talk about we need to do something, I do want you to get credit for the money that you have allocated which is over a half a million dollars to this problem i'm not aware of any other city that can make that statement thank you for setting your own chart on that i did not intend to imply that we weren't we're doing anything to tackle the problem just there's a whole lot more problem we've left in front of us okay well let's open it up for some public comment i guess by now everybody knows the rules Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Rob Qualls. I live at 2140 Jopwell here in Fayetteville. I'm here today representing an organization called For Fayetteville. We are a civil rights organization that helped pass the civil rights ordinance here in the city. We have since become a local political action committee supporting progressive candidates and policies, but at its heart, For Fayetteville is a civil rights organization. Homelessness is the next big civil rights challenge here in this city. Fayetteville may be doing more than any other city in the state, but there's still a lot of work to do. According to data provided by Chief Tabor, there were 40 calls to the police department in 2017 concerning medians. Of those 40 complaints, 32 of them were people asking for assistance or what we would call panhandling. While the concern for safety has been cited, most of these calls were classified in the report given by the police department as annoyance calls. Only three were classified as welfare concerns. None of them included accidents or injuries of any kind. Of the 32 panhandling complaints, 23 of them were at one intersection, Joyce and College. Four were on the median in the Fiesta Square parking lot, which I'm unclear if that's actually going to be applicable or if that's private property. They're by Hardee's. A federal judge struck down the state panhandling statute in September of 2017 because they were found to violate Citizens First's right to free speech. Fayetteville, to its credit, quickly amended the ordinances to comply with this ruling. Since then, a few cities in Arkansas have passed further amendments in order to curb panhandling while staying in compliance with the Constitution. These include Hot Springs, Fort Smith, and Rogers. The ACLU of Arkansas has sued them. Fort Smith has since repealed its amended ordinance. While we do understand that the amendment being offered today is different from what our neighbors have tried, there have been many cities and other states that have focused on medians. Oklahoma City is one example. The ACLU of Oklahoma sued them. The city made some changes to address those grievances, but the ACLU has continued to press forward with that lawsuit. The ACLU of Oklahoma referred to that ordinance that restricted the use of medians as not only a superficial reaction to the systemic problem of poverty, but also an affront to the free speech rights of those living in Oklahoma City. In addition to legal challenges, it simply isn't working for Oklahoma City. Panhandlers are often cited multiple times. They return the next day. They don't pay fines. They don't show up to court, which leaves a judge faced with the task of putting people in jail for standing in a place and asking for help. Oklahoma City's experience isn't unique. I was very surprised to learn that Colorado Springs, Colorado enacted a median ordinance last year because I was there for two weeks in January and they were all over the medians there. The Panhandlers were, I don't even need to talk to them. Fayetteville is likely to have a similar result. Lawsuits, a tarnished reputation, and no appreciable reduction in the presence of Panhandling. There's got to be a better way. 71% of the annoyance calls happen in one intersection, College and Joyce. Perhaps there's a way to address that one intersection without a citywide ordinance. It may not be quick or easy or cheap, but it will likely be far more effective. While the city does have a duty to respond to calls about panhandlers who are standing in unsafe areas, we do not believe it's productive unless the officers and staff can offer immediate assistance to them. It's my understanding we lack the support infrastructure for officers to be able to get those in need immediately hooked up with food, cars, or emergency housing. We do not have very many homeless beds in Fayetteville. Until we can do this, we believe we're going to be continually chasing our tails and handing people citations they cannot pay. Our homeless neighbors need housing, not handcuffs. For every 100 people eligible for low income housing in Arkansas, there are 41 available units and 31 units is the national average. We are in an affordable housing crisis and the future outlook isn't positive as wages stay stagnant and rent increases substantially. Housing is the best intervention coupled with a supportive community. We know with the wonderful groups in our community working on solutions and our compassionate, resourceful city leadership that we can make great strides in ending the lack of resources that may lead someone to panhandle. Our wish would be that this amendment be voted down so we could all come together to find a better way to address panhandling in our city. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Who else would like to address this? Hello, I'm Amber Bruce. I live in the Molly Corps Department here in Fayetteville. I'm also a social worker and a graduate student at the University of Arkansas. I'm trying to get my master's in social work. As a student, I've logged almost 1,000 hours working with low-income individuals and our neighbors who are experiencing homelessness. There's always a concern. First, I'd like to thank the city of Fayetteville for the resources that they do provide for our vulnerable citizens and the police officers themselves. I've been involved in many situations with those vulnerable citizens where the officers have responded with grace and have deescalated some really difficult situations. So I do believe that they are working to promote the safety of our most vulnerable citizens. But it's also always a concern anytime someone who's very low income gets a citation. Many of the individuals that I work for, one of the biggest issues that we run into is a lack of identification. So one of my concerns is if someone does not have identification and they're not aware of an ordinance if it's passed, that that could also end up in an additional loitering citation, which is something that we see a lot. In addition, aside from compassion from a practical standpoint, as mentioned, I think that the reason that our minds go so quickly to panhandlers is because ordinances that specifically use medians have been places like Oklahoma City, Omaha, Sandy City, Utah, Portland, Maine, and Albuquerque, New Mexico. Most of those who have all been sued by the ACLU, and one of those reasons is they had a big lack of safety data. They didn't have the data to back up the fact that it was a safety concern. Again, I do not question the intention of our police force because they have been so helpful. However, yeah, I guess that's it. Thanks for listening. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. You don't want to go on or hold it? Yes, Sarah. I would like to say, since the majority of our complaints are coming from the College and Joyce intersection, and we are about to embark on a redesign of that corridor, that that's a great opportunity to fix our roadway design rather than pass laws that could criminalize people in crisis. So I do hope we'll hold this. and until we can find some better solutions. But I think we could solve this problem of design instead of ordinances. Okay. Matthew. Well, I'd like to hold it. And in the meantime, if there's any research that could be sent to me about other median ordinances and how they came to be and their current status, I'd appreciate it. And the last thing I might say is, yeah, I've been in a couple of communities that have have posted signs like text a certain number with a certain phrase to donate a certain amount to your local homeless shelter signs. And I wonder if something like that might help out with this particular issue. I can tell you that I've already obviously looked at the issues with medians and some of these other cases. In many cases, the prohibitions against medians were directly linked to panhandlers. In other cases, they tried to do them citywide, as was alleged here. Ours is not citywide. It's only for principal arterials and federal or state highways, obviously much more dangerous, higher speed. And in fact, we have a speed limit, if you remember how the ordinance was drafted, that you all passed. about six or eight months ago, it required also an arterial that had a high speed limit because we wanted to make sure it was for safety purposes only. So I've already researched all that and looked at that. This law is somewhat in flux. So it's no guarantee exactly what's going to happen. But my best opinion is that, especially since all we're doing is changing or clarifying the ordinance by adding a definition of roadway, this is not a significant change to the existing ordinance that you all passed not very long ago. And it is directed toward safety. It's not directed toward panhandlers. And even if being a panhandler, though, doesn't give you the right to break the law, it doesn't give you the right to jaywalk or to create danger for other people. You have a right to ask for money, and you can do that, and we don't say you can't. But it doesn't give you the right to break other laws while you're doing that. Okay. So I guess we'll leave it right here. All right. Well, that conducts our business for this evening. Thank you. What announcements do we have? No announcements? I actually have one announcement. I've been, as you might be aware, the city was sued by a law firm over the false alarm reduction ordinance that we passed several years ago. This law firm sued us, Little Rock and Hot Springs. Little Rock has filed a motion to dismiss. I filed an answer and then I filed an extensive motion and brief attacking their attempt to certify a class to sue against us. And then just this afternoon, I filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings with a 24-page brief arguing that. The brief was so long because they had about 10 claims of different kinds of constitutional things that they were alleging. Now, Hot Springs, represented by the Municipal League's Legal Defense Fund, has already settled, or is supposed to settle tomorrow, I think, and pay these attorneys $40,000 plus refund $110,000 to false alarm people that called in false alarms that their police had to respond to, and they're agreeing to not enforce that ordinance anymore. Now, our false alarm ordinance, I think, was... I don't know what Hot Springs said exactly. I think ours certainly is defendable. That's why I'm doing that. Our false alarm ordinance has worked. We have reduced the false alarms by about 50%. Now, there's still... The vast majority of alarms our police get are false, unfortunately. We'd like to reduce that even more, but I am... going to do my best to defend this particular case because I think the ordinance has been effective for our police department not Only saving us money that way but having the police be available to do their real work and not respond to a false alarm So I just want to let you know what that is I'm gonna if I get any time I'm gonna actually send you a copy of my work just so you can take a look at the briefs and see what our arguments are I haven't really had a chance to do that because I've been I Working too much on them to get them out in time and try to defend the city But I want to let you know that's what's going on there Okay, and Susan Norton and I are going to Washington, D.C. Saturday. Susan, you might want to tell them about your committee. Do you have something else, Gene? I have an announcement, too. It's real quick. This Saturday we're having a community event out at Arkansas Athletes Outreach, which is on McConnell next to the fairgrounds. It's going to start at 8 a.m. We're going to be playing some basketball. And then at 11 o'clock there's actually a block party for hamburgers and hot dogs. So we'd love to see you all there. You're going to be playing some basketball? I'm going to be out at 10. All right. just so the mayor asked me to explain as a member of the National League of Cities I'm appointed to the Information Technology Communications Committee so that's one of the reasons that when it comes issues like that small cell technology and those kinds of facilities other issues net neutrality is a big one with this committee advocacy for broadband federal advocacy, state advocacy so that's kind of in a nutshell, what that ITC committee is all about. Mayor, why don't you explain your committee? Okay, mine is the Human Development Committee, and our charge is to look at welfare reform, climate change, immigration reform, and workforce development. So we'll be a couple of days there meeting with those committees. So anyway, I don't have anything else. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.