I would like to call the Oregon City Council meeting of March 5th, 2024. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Burnham? Here. Bunch? Turk? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business tonight is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of January, period one in 2024. It was a little rough month for us this year. We've gone up against some pretty strong numbers last January, and we had a couple of weather events, if we'll remember. But let's take a look at what we had. Sales tax was down roughly 3.6 percent compared to budget.
 Franchise fees, however, were up roughly 30% compared to budget. Beverage taxes were down. Building permits were down 50% compared to last year. Now, last year was a very, very record year for building permits. And we seem to have picked it up in February. But as of January, we were down 50% compared to budget. State turn back was up a bit. Court fees were up 3%. And charges for services were down about 15%.
 So totally, the revenue was down in the general fund 3% compared to the budget. Again, that's period one, January of 2024. Street fund, that was down 3%. Also, MFT and half cent sales tax for gasoline was down roughly 3%. So it was down compared to budget.
 Parking fees. Parking fees were roughly down 3% also compared to budget for the period. Parks development, which is HMR fees, was actually down 2% compared to budget. It's actually up a quarter percent compared to last year, but compared to budget it was down a little bit. Trash and, excuse me, recycling and trash collections.
 were down 1% for January. Water and sewer was down substantially. That was down four bill fees, 5% for the period. Airport flights were down 22%. Gasoline sales were down 23%. So all in all, it was basically rough across the board in the month of January for all funds.
 Again, we did have some weather issues. January was pretty strong last year and we'll see where we go from here. This is period one for 2024 and I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Everybody good? All right. Let's go on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 20th, 2024 city council meeting minutes.
 Number two resolution approved budget adjustment associated with resolution 53 days. 24 number three resolution to award bid number 23 days 46 and authorized contract with SS of Northwest Arkansas.
 in the amount of five hundred and forty one thousand two hundred forty one dollars for the construction of lighted pickleball courts tennis court improvements from basketball court lighting to approve the project contingency in the amount of $50,000 and to approve a budget adjustment recognizing park land dedication funds from the southwest quadrangle
 Number four resolution to award bid number 24-22 and to authorize contract Kajak's contractors incorporated in the amount of four million three hundred and forty nine thousand five hundred dollars for construction of water and sewer utility relocations along highway 16 to approve project agency in the amount of four hundred thirty five thousand dollars and approved budget just number
 Five, a resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated, any amount not to exceed $218,974.41 for additional services associated with utility relocations along Highway 16 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number six, a resolution to approve T-hanger lease agreements in 2024 at the current rental rate for all T-hangers rented at the Federal Airport. Number seven, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Alpine Aviation of Federal Incorporated for the hangar at 4166 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $750 per month.
 Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 23-48 in the authorized contract with First Star Exteriors LLC any amount of $193,975 for roof replacement of the Rock Street annex roof to approve a project contingency any amount of $19,397.00
 and 50 cents and to approve the budget adjustment. This is 2019 City Utilities Improvement Bond Project. Number nine, a resolution to approve a contract for Seven Hills Homeless Center to provide funding assistance in the amount of $40,000 for maintenance and repairs at the Walker Family Residential Community Complex in 2024.
 Number 10 resolution to approve a contract with benchmark construction company of Northwest, Arkansas incorporated any amount of seven hundred eighty nine thousand seven hundred forty seven dollars and fifty cents for construction of the North Street corridor Improvements project phase one to approve project contingency any amount of eighty thousand dollars and to prove budget just this is 2019 Street improvement on project number 11 a
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,948,635, recognizing federal aid and state funding from R-DOT for right-of-way acquisition associated with the improvements to Highway 112.
 Number 12, a resolution to award RFQ 24-01 selection number one, an authorized purchase of on-call materials testing services from McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated, Olson Associates Incorporated, and GTS Incorporated as needed through April 30, 2025.
 Number 13, a resolution to award RFQ 24-01, selection number two, an authorized purchase of on-call surveying services from McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated, Hawkins Weir Engineers Incorporated, and Olson Associates Incorporated as needed through April 30, 2025.
 Number 14, a resolution to approve the purchase of an international HV dump truck from Rush Truck Center in the amount of $209,706.12 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source will co-opted purchasing contract. Number 15.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of a Ford 150 Lightning from Lewis Ford in the amount of $61,974 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number 16, a resolution to approve the purchase of a brush chipper from Hennard Utility Products Incorporated in the amount of $54,251.60 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source-well cooperative purchasing contract. Number 17, a resolution to approve the purchase of a
 Polaris Ranger from Polaris Sales Incorporated in the amount of $36,499.46 plus any
 applicable surcharges freight charges and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract and number 18 a resolution to approve the purchase of two trailers from premier trailers any amount of $29,600 plus any applicable surcharges freight charges and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price Pursuant to a source will cooperate purchasing contract and to prove budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to approve
 to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to unfinished business. Number one.
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in rezoning petition RZN 2023-0035 for approximately 2.44 acres located in Northwest North Shadow Drive and West Chickery Place in Ward 2 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Jonathan, I'm sorry. Blake, we're on the, Blake, you need to read that? You're on the second reading.
 i'll entertain a motion to go to third and final reading so moved second motion second to go third and finally care which please call her up herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes
 Yes. Chair? Yes. In ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-0035 for approximately 2.44 acres located northwest of North Shiloh Drive and West Chicory Place in Ward 2 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Chair.
 I do have a brief update for Council expanding upon what I shared at the agenda session that the applicant may be bringing forward a bill of assurance that was sent out almost immediately before the meeting. We did get that this afternoon, so I promise we're not holding out on you. But in the interest of bringing up to speed, that bill of assurance includes three components that are being proposed.
 One is to prohibit the development of the property with use units 17 and 18 in our development code. Those are auto-oriented uses, think car dealerships, mechanic shops, and then additionally use unit 18 targets gas stations and drive-through restaurants.
 A second component of the proposed bill of assurance is to donate access easements for passage through the property to the Wilson Springs property to the west and also the donation of any native plants that are on the property to the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust that are requested.
 The third component, which I realize just as I was pulling the slides up, that shouldn't read use unit 17. I apologize there. It's with any conditional use permit approval for mini storage, not use unit 17. That's what I just noted was prohibited, so I apologize for that error. But if there's a conditional use permit approved for mini storage, which is only allowed as a conditional use,
 the urban thoroughfare zoning district that will be developed consistently with the building rendering that you see here on the screen and the site plan below it which has the building located in the southeast corner of the site further zoning requirements of the urban thoroughfare zoning district
 While we don't have enough details at this point to perform a detailed development review on the request, it does appear to at least be generally compatible with the or consistent with the development requirements under the zoning district. So it does appear feasible that they could develop the site this way if council were to, one, approve this rezoning and then the planning commission were to approve a conditional use permit for mini storage.
 And as a brief reminder, since it's been a pair of weeks, staff does recommend in favor of the original request, which is to rezone this property from its current state as an expired planned zoning district to UT Urban Thoroughfare. The Planning Commission largely concurred forwarding the item to City Council by a vote of six to two. I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Will Kellstrom is here in person as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Mayor Weill Kellsstrom Would the applicant like to speak for the
 Good evening, Council. Will Keltstrom here on behalf of the applicant Focal Point Investments. I do want to apologize for the late notice on this bill of assurance. The developer and I have been kind of wrestling with the seller for the last two weeks since that last meeting to try to put something together for you guys, but we finally got that this morning.
 So last time we were here, there was a decent amount of discussion about the fact that urban thoroughfare as a zoning allows for some auto-oriented uses that you guys weren't necessarily excited to see, and that we have a pending CUP for mini-storage submitted to the Planning Commission.
 Before the last meeting, after discussing with Jonathan and the city attorney, we decided we didn't want to get bogged down with telling you all the specifics of what we wanted to develop. But granted that this conversation last meeting seemed to focus a lot on the mini storage aspect, we decided to try to figure out a way to put that in front of you all in a way that we could actually commit to and that had some teeth to it that you all can hold us to.
 So that's how we got to this. I do have copies of this bill of assurance for everybody. If you guys would like to see them. I think we all have a copy. Did we all get a copy? Everyone has a copy? Okay, very good. I passed out a copy of my memo, but it doesn't have the bill of assurance attached to it. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 So, to get started with reading through all of this, as Jonathan said, the first aspect of it is that we are stating that transportation, trades and services, and gasoline service stations and drive-throughs will be prohibited. We don't want to build one. I don't think it's necessarily a good spot for one, but in any event, we're happy to commit to not building anything like that there.
 As for the second portion of these restrictions, Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, when they found out that this property was under contract and that we were thinking about developing it, they reached out to us because this lot has apparently been their historic access to get equipment onto the Wilson Springs Preserve.
 Things, you know, equipment for mowing and just kind of maintaining the wetlands apparently is really the only good spot they can pull up on a road and get to kind of flat area to pull onto it. So you will see in that site plan that we have shown where that easement might be.
 It's going to cross over the backside of the property and those are we're looking at some grass pavers or something that can be put there to not tear up the grass kind of leave it intact, but allow them to get trucks over it.
 Interestingly enough, in that meeting they also asked us if we would donate any plants that were existing on the property so that they could anything that we were going to tear out, they could take and relocate it to Wilson Springs Preserve, which we said sure, we're not using them. So that's how that got there. In terms of the site plan, I want to point out a couple details. So for one,
 This is not a single use building. There is office on the first floor. Specifically it's flex office. So this is not a single use building. I would also point out that this is a four story storage development. It's not your kind of typical wide single story take up a bunch of space, chain link fences, corrugated metal type of building.
 We intend for it to be a high quality building. But the flex space, we are thinking that flex space with storage nearby and in fact, included in the same building, this is the kind of places that the small companies like to rent. I hesitate to say startup companies, but companies that essentially are maybe have some need for some storage in a small office space. Additionally, I'd like to point out that with
 Urban thoroughfare zoning, we have some build-to restrictions, which means that the building is forced up to the front of the street to address the curb. I'll also add that the office space kind of wraps around the corner of the building to kind of address that street corner. We have, and the engineer, Kyle Ham, is back here and he can confirm this, but I believe we're at about 23% preservation with this site plan, which is more than the minimum under UT.
 This site plan has already been partially vetted by staff. They sent it back to us with some comments. They wanted us to do an outdoor lighting plan and add some more parking from the original plan, which we did and sent back to them. So this is...
 Essentially what I'm getting at is that this is something that we have already thought through and ran by staff, and it's not your run-of-the-mill tin can boat storage unit out by Beaver Lake. This is a high-quality building. The exteriors are going to be brick, ephus, metal, and glazing. So we intend for this to be a high-quality development, and the purpose of this bill of assurance is committing to that and giving you all something that you can enforce against us. Okay.
 So I understand that storage units is not really high on anybody's list for developments coming to Fayetteville. And we're well aware of that. However, there is a need for them. There's college kids that move in and out of dorms and apartments every year. And it's something that, generally speaking, a city does need. So understanding that...
 Think that this spot is a good spot for it. It's tucked away at the end of this subdivision In terms of a version of storage you're getting you're getting a four-story high exterior quality Compact and urban type of storage development again Not a big spread out corrugated metal one And so I think that if there is a need for storage I think this is probably a good way to do it and I think that on that point I
 This is probably why storage units are conditional in UT. We don't want them allowed all the time, but in certain circumstances they can be appropriate. And what we have done is tried to design this development in the best way that we know how
 to make it something that is deserving of a conditional use permit in the zone. So with that, I'm here for questions as well as Kyle him who is the engineer on the project. If you guys have any questions on this. Thank you. Okay. What questions this council have staff or the app?
 I think my first question would be to Blake. Since they've opened the door and are talking about what they're proposing to develop there, can we ask questions? Because typically we can't take that into consideration when we're doing a
 So are we able, since they've opened the door, to ask a question about the facility? I think you can, but keep in mind that if you rezone it to this, it also opens the door to everything else that they are not including as a prohibition within UT. So my question to the applicant would be, it's a very attractive building and certainly it's different than what your typical storage facility would look like.
 But will there be any public vision of any type of store outside storage or everything going to be contained inside the four walls of the building?
 Everything will be contained within the four walls of the building. We didn't give you a rendering of the back of it, but it's going to look the same. If you look on that site plan, you'll see there's kind of a circle drive and a covered entryway in the back, and essentially you'll come in the back of the building and you will access your units through hallways. Now, I think through the front glazing, if it's transparent, you may see garage doors within the building. There's a...
 multi-story storage development in Centerton where you can you can kind of see the hallways inside but there won't be any garage doors on the outside that's what you're asking
 Mayor, can I just add, if the rezoning is approved tonight, the Planning Commission can add conditions since it is a conditionally used permit. They could include conditions that there are no outside garages, that it must be developed substantially in conformance with this. It is part of the bill of assurance, so that would prevent them from going outside of the site plan that they proposed.
 Thank you. First I'd like to thank you all. You've really gone above and beyond here. In my view we shouldn't be asking developers to give us this. You should be able to develop what the property is zoned for. Now this property is kind of in zoning purgatory, zoning limbo because the previous zoning
 But I really do thank you. And again, I think you've gone above and beyond. Thank you for working with the Land Trust. Thank you for working with Jonathan and the planning department. Thank you for saving more than the minimum amount of trees. Yeah, we're not supposed to be here to micromanage what gets developed. We're supposed to have appropriate zoning for where we see fit. And that's what our decision should be about.
 I'm gonna support this. I hate the idea that we would leave somebody in kind of that zoning limbo of, can't tell you what you can do with your property or not. And to me, that's an us problem. We need to look at all these expired zoning areas and we need to get them zoned. The fact that we haven't, that's our deal. Yeah, I mean, this looks great to me and again,
 Yeah, I'm not sure if I have anything else. I'm ready to vote on this and approve it. Well, we might want to get a little... I do have one question for John. Did PZD, the previous zoning, would that have allowed a storage unit like this? I don't believe that was included as a permitted or conditional use. It was mostly auto-oriented uses, which you can see in the surrounding properties mostly developed as car dealerships. It was auto-oriented or...
 Transportation, trades and services is our lingo for it. So car dealerships had also allowed for offices, did not permit residential units. However, something like this probably could have fit under the previous zoning that just happened to expire. I think in the form that it's being proposed here, that is more than the appearance of an office structure rather than a low slung land hungry mini storage unit. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Oh, I missed the question for staff.
 what is the procedure if this is not something that we are wanting to see for proposing a different zoning
 You're talking about rejecting the urban thoroughfare and going to something else? Yes. Do we need to reject this proposal and then they come back with a new proposal or do we give them options? How does that work? You have a couple of options. You can either, I would not recommend rejecting it because that leaves them in that zoning purgatory. Councilmember Stafford was talking about what you could do is amend the ordinance to a different zoning category. And if you were thinking about doing that, you know, you might.
 consider tabling it, getting some staff input on what might be appropriate for this? I think my concern is I want to see more housing in this area and I think as dense of housing as possible. So this is not something that I would be in support of as is right now. I'll just react real quickly. Since I left my mic down, I'll use it.
 You know, this is a small lot. What is it? How many acres? Two point? It is 2.44, so about two and a half. Two and a half acres. I mean, we're not going to fit a lot of housing there. To me, it would be a weird place for housing. I mean, kind of good because you're close to Sam's Club and other things and close to Garland, but also kind of weird. You're close to a lot of auto dealers and commercial businesses. And I don't know if it's my purview to...
 dictate that someone must build housing in a spot. You know, again, if this was allowed under the previous zoning to be used for commercial uses, and if that zoning hadn't expired, they would have been able to use it for commercial purposes, I wouldn't support forcing someone to build something that wasn't, unless it was zoned residential before. That's it. Thank you.
 Tracy. Just briefly, Bob, my understanding was that it was zoned for use by the Audubon Society. For that, that was the intended use for that particular parcel. So I don't think it was really commercial use per se. So just correct me if I'm wrong, Jonathan, about that.
 I think a clarification is merited there. There was certainly a lot of narrative during the planned zoning district discussions about the potential to convey this land to the Audubon Society for Uses and Nature Center. The property was very explicitly zoned and platted for commercial use, however. So use units that were included included those auto oriented ones and offices in particular. So it does very much have a legacy of commercial zoning. Before that, it was zoned industrially.
 Jonathan, there are residential zonings close by, correct?
 The closest is likely on the opposite side of Wilson Springs to the west. There's some, I'd characterize them as more estate lots, but that's the closest that I can think of. And I'm sorry, further south as well, as you go south on Shiloh to Moore Lane and head west, there's a mix of townhome and single-family development as well. With the townhome development, do you have what zoning that is currently? That's a PZD. Okay, thank you.
 Yes, I'd like to ask my fellow ward 4 council members, have you had any input from citizens about this and any feedback from your constituents? I have not. I did talk to the North Coast Arkansas Land Trust. I have not heard from any residents either. Anything else? Okay, well, let's take some public input.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? Good evening, everyone. My name is Marcin Nance, 3132 North Tartan Way, and I work for the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust.
 Since 2012, the Land Trust has owned and managed Wilson Springs Preserve, north of the subject property. The preserve is home to more than 500 species of plants and animals, including 30 animal species of greatest conservation need. And for 10 years, the Land Trust has worked to restore the preserve to its original habitats of tall grass, prairie, wetland, and oak savanna, all while watching development slowly surround the site.
 The Land Trust generally is not opposed to responsible development, especially in our urban core. We have spoken up in the past, however, when proposed development posed threats to the Preserve's habitats, its plants, and its wildlife, and we try really hard to be good neighbors out there. Many of our restoration activities on the Preserve require the use of equipment and machinery, and because of the nature of the Preserve, it's often inundated with water in the spring, it's got multiple creeks and drainages, sensitive habitat, it's difficult to find suitable places to enter the property with equipment.
 and since acquiring the preserve there's been kind of a handshake agreement to allow us across the subject property to access our maintenance road and this is quite possibly the only suitable site on the preserve that's sustainable enough to handle our equipment traffic i've been nervously waiting for somebody to buy this partial or attempt to develop it and anxious about losing our access on our south boundary
 InWall in general is neutral on what sort of development should occupy the parcel. Development of surrounded preserve over the last decade, there's more coming. There's an 80-acre development north of us. There's housing and car dealership expansions to the south of us. We're about to be totally encapsulated except for Underwood Park to our west, and even now Dean Solomon Road fragments the preserve from the new park.
 InWater is familiar with the habitat on the subject property. It's pretty degraded, but we have observed a few good plant species on it. Big bluestem, some milkweed, some rushes. There's a lot of invasive plant species out there, and there's a giant Bradford pear that we look forward to seeing gone. To restore that piece would probably take more resources to be better used on other habitat restoration projects.
 Additionally, this area has been a safety concern for quite a while. We've had stolen cars abandoned at the gate back there, evidence of drug use, illegal hunting activity. And on more than one occasion, we've had somebody cut our lock, enter the property with trucks, spotlight hunt, crash vehicles in the spring run and dump garbage. And frankly, we're optimistic about the potential of a business and more eyes on this particular area of the preserve.
 We have discussed the property with the developers and their attorney and they provided us with the draft bill of assurances which guarantees our continued access to our South Gate will allow us to collect the native plants from the site for relocation.
 To maintain efforts on the preserve, we do need permanent legal access to the south side. And in what believes the negative environmental consequences of losing access and our ability to properly manage the preserve are greater than the proposed development of the subject property. We don't like seeing development around any of our preserves, to be quite honest, but we're in the city. We understand the need for growth.
 We believe the development of this property will have a neutral impact on the Wilson Springs Preserve and may help sustain our ability to manage it. As land managers, we must consider all aspects of management on our preserves, especially Wilson Springs, which is an ambassador preserve for both our efforts and our conservation efforts throughout the region. Tom. Tom. Thank you. I'd like to give the speaker extra time if they need it. Another 60 seconds help you. I had one more line.
 It's an ambassador preserve for both our efforts and for conservation in the region. I'd like to thank the council for always considering the land trust that are preserves when you're deciding these matters. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Have anybody on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is on the final reading. So what discussion would you all like to have?
 start there I stand corrected I thought this was Ward four but it is actually I've been informed that it's Ward two now used to be Ward four so I was going to ask have the ward two representatives heard anything from their constituents thank you
 I had a question for staff. I'm looking at the future land use. You know, we've had a lot of conversations about, you know, I wish, you know, I had a magic wand, I guess, and I could magically make all of our zoning match what our city plan and the envisioning we've had for what our community can turn into, but we luckily do have our future land use maps available.
 And I was looking at this area is characterized under city neighborhood. And so I was hoping you could kind of recap what the vision is for what city neighborhood is supposed to look like.
 Certainly, and before jumping specifically into that, as a reminder, the future land use map is that broad brush stroke vision of what the land use of the city will look like. So there is no prescriptive zoning district that fits every single future land use designation. It depends on the context of the area, what's around it, the transportation network that's serving it.
 So as it relates to city neighborhoods specifically, that's intended to be one of our more intense and dense zoning districts or future land use map designations where a mix of uses is prioritized in order to create those communities and those interactions that can occur when you have residential and non-residential uses next to each other.
 Accordingly, staff felt that Urban Thoroughfare is a very complimentary zoning district to that, although it is one of our more intense commercial and residential zoning districts, allowing everything from single family to multifamily and everything from offices and restaurants to larger retail establishments. It does so in all in one zoning district, allows it up to a fairly high intensity. And given this location on a major transportation corridor, staff felt it was an appropriate request on its face.
 Does that answer your question, Council Member? That's helpful. Thank you. And so I know there were some comments earlier before I went to public comment, so I kind of want to respond a little bit. Typically, you know, I probably would jump and look at UT because I do, again, I think it probably matches a lot of the intent behind it, but it actually is incredibly wide open.
 An unfortunate thing about some of our zoning I'm finding is that it does almost have the kitchen sink. And so, it is a big question mark about how that might potentially be developed. And oftentimes, we are really wanting to encourage mixed use. And while I acknowledge the applicant stated that within the building, there might be some office leasing as well as the storage.
 You know, the real thought behind the infrastructure improvements we've had in this area that are substantial for taxpayers with putting in funding for Underwood Park that will be so close by. But when I look at city neighborhood, I kind of envision this potentially being something that could have additional mixed uses and utilize that space. And so I'm kind of struggling with the UT as well. I'm not sure where we might land.
 thankful that we have the bill of assurance to take care of a couple of those possible uses but I really don't think and since it is out there I don't think an appropriate use of this space and the greatest best use is to put a mini storage and when we do zone it to UT goes back to Planning Commission and you know they have the current requirements today you know to put yes additional assurances but at the end of the day it's a box and it really fills
 Like it's a missed opportunity potentially about this building staring out at this incredible natural escape and about thinking about residents that could easily be accessing this and then in our previous
 Talking about this item we discussed also that has close proximity and easy access to employment opportunities as well Which of course we want to make sure that residents are able to take advantage of which obviously None of the storage is going to be going to employment. So kind of struggling with that And typically I would probably say let's do the UT but I'm having mixed feelings on this and hoping to hear from others on it Jonathan
 There's no requirement for the developer to give access to the land trust or anything, is that correct? That's correct. Okay, so they really work with the land trust to give them the easement to make sure that the, and another developer might not do that. Or if it needs to be developed as another project even, that might not happen.
 fair statement it's possible I was not involved in the conversations between the applicant the the land trust so I'm not sure what what and then I can I ask you a question of the gentleman from the land trust
 Do you feel that this is a pretty good situation for you all, that you're able to have this, that the developer has given you and granted you this access so that you're guaranteed this easement and access? Yes, and frankly this is an ideal scenario for the trust. Like I said, we're neutral as far as what goes there, but having that guaranteed access to the preserve is critical to the work we do out there, so that would be something we
 working with any developer or or potential owner of the property to try to see done. We've been kind of waiting for this this time for a long time so cool so that was the time. Great and the representative for the developer? I guess I don't know you probably okay we'll see you know I have a storage unit in South Fayetteville and
 Every time I go there, I may see one other car there. They tend not, is it fair to say they're not really high traffic businesses? That like, I mean like you'll have people come during the day, but you're not going to have a line of cars full, like people store their stuff, they leave and then they come back in my case a couple times a year. I would tend to agree with that, but Kyle is the guy who built them.
 Yes, the storage is a very low intensity as far as vehicle traffic, especially when compared to residential and commercial. And a building like this doesn't look too dissimilar from like the Volt Vision building that's nearby or anything else? Not at all. And probably less traffic than Volt Vision if you count how many appointments are getting during the day? Likely, yes. Yeah, okay.
 I would also add, if y'all would permit me, that this is a triangular double frontage lot. It's probably not ideal for stuffing a lot of residential units on, though I don't disagree that we need more of them, but that's just a point. Scott. Thank you, Mary. This is one of the items that I'm glad we held last meeting because this –
 I left the meeting with every intentions in my mind of voting against this because I had the vision of a traditional storage unit. But you're looking at this building and yes, I understand the need for housing, but I guess I fall in the category as housing.
 If a developer thought that wasn't a good piece of property for housing, it's been available for purchase for many, many years, I assume, and no one has purchased it for that purpose. And then we look at what they're proposing for that lot, and Bob kind of stole my thunder a little bit, but you look at the Bold Vision building right next to it,
 And it essentially looks like the same building. So how can we, in my mind, say you can't build this building just because there's storage inside those four walls, but we allowed bold vision because they're a eye doctor or whatever the case may be.
 I look at the building as a quality construction building. Would look good on that site in an area that is, the lot is not an ideal building location because of the lot structure. So I will be supporting this tonight. Okay. Anybody else got anything? Yes. Yes. I just wanted to clarify, Jonathan, that on the,
 sort of north side of the proposed development, that borders with the Wilson Springs Preserve. Do I have that right? Sorry to ask a question to your question. Are you referring to the site plan that's in the Bill of Assurance? I'm kind of looking on the zoning map, and the colors are really similar, and I just wanted to make sure that that was the border with Wilson Springs or not. It is. That's correct. Okay. Thank you.
 Yes, one of the, you know, this is kind of in a perfect scenario. I know there could be housing built on this and that's the, you know, there could be some stuff built there that would provide a little more housing. But I don't think, you know, we're not being asked to consider that. We're being asked because someone's going to buy the property or has bought the property and they want to put this building on it.
 A lot of respects, you know, where Wilson, the Wilson Springs preserve is concerned. They've told us that this is an ideal situation for them because it's going to be low traffic and they're going to give them access and we might not get that with another developer. One of the things I'm kind of concerned about is, you know, in the course, I like the fact that this doesn't look like your standard.
 But there could be other things put on this lot too. It doesn't necessarily just have to be this particular building that they've shown us a picture of. I do like the look of this building though, but I think about in the future, like buildings get repurposed all the time and I don't know if a building that's built
 especially for storage, could be repurposed in the future. That's something I'm kind of thinking about. That might be, of course that's down the road, you know. So, but I'm kind of up in the air on this. It's not exactly my favorite decision to make, but that's why we get paid the big bucks, I guess. So, thank you. It's well put, Sarah. Thank you.
 Okay, is there anything else? Yes, Mike. Mr. Mayor, one final thing. I was extremely unexcited about storage units, but if you're going to build them, build them vertical. And they're doing that, the bill of assurance, you know, I want to say dad gummed them for coming up with that and providing access to the land trust because they've just overcome
 vast majority of objections that I would have for the use and so kudos to them for doing their darndest to make the decision hard for us and regrettably they won the day with me. Thank you.
 Jonathan, revisiting on whenever you were approached on this and looking at the future of land use and getting to UT, and going back to Councilmember Hertzberg talking about potentially housing or some density, were there other considerations of other zoning that would be appropriate with a city neighborhood designation?
 I think you could certainly make a case for other ones for the reasons I outlined how it relates to the future land use map is how staff came to supporting this position. I'm not sure if your question is would other zoning districts also meet the intent of the future land use map?
 perhaps you all often heard the phrase highest and best use and there's often a consideration of depending on the context of the location the city's long-range plans what are the zoning district the best response to that and then staff's estimation urban thoroughfare certainly fits that mold okay are there any others though that were considered as well
 I was not a part of maybe some of the early conversations. I don't know if other ones were thrown out there or if staff had a preference for one necessarily. I know this is ultimately what the applicant proposed and staff is recommending in favor of it. Okay, thank you. Mayor, if the council wants to incorporate the bill of assurance, we would need a motion to amend the ordinance. Okay, thank you. Would you like to do that, Bob?
 Sure. Okay. Yeah, I'll make that motion. Do you have something else? I did. Well, okay. You want to do the bill of insurance first? I just wanted to address a couple things. When people ask like what other uses could this be, you know, living in San Francisco storage units a lot of time turned into band practice spaces, artist spaces.
 studios this was a thing because if you're if you're an artist or a musician you have no place to exercise and actually storage units became very popular for that use and I do see a chief Reynolds back here. Yeah, do you mind if I bug you for a second? Right now I don't believe there's any other housing on that stretch of Shiloh
 That's correct. Yeah. And so would that create a like an extra area you would have to patrol and what kind of if it did if it was if it did turn to a residentially zoned area and somebody decided to build residential there would that add I don't want to call it a burden but just you know an extra patrol
 I wouldn't say that would cause an extra patrol route, but any development that goes into the city, I mean that certainly adds a little bit more work for public safety, whether it's police or fire, to be concerned with. And certainly we would try to be equal when it comes to patrolling those areas. But whether it's the storage buildings or whether it's residential or whether it's commercial,
 It wouldn't make a bit of a difference. Not a big difference for you? No. Not a bit of difference? No. OK. Thank you. You're welcome. Mr. Mayor? Yes. I'd like to make a motion to add the bill of assurance to the ordinance. Is that what I'm doing? I already made that motion. You can second my motion. Sorry it was lost in all that, Adam. Excuse me. But you did make a motion? Yeah, I heard him make the motion. OK, I'd like to second that motion then.
 Second the motion. All right. We have a motion and a second to add the bill of assurance. Mayor, can I read the title with that? Sure can, Blake. It would be an ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-0035 for approximately 2.44 acres located northwest of North Shiloh Drive and West Chicory Place in Ward 2 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to UT Urban Thoroughfare subject to a bill of assurance.
 subject to bill of assurance would also be added at the end of section one okay all right everybody happy okay well let's call the roll on the amendment to add the uh Pittsburgh yes Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Whittaker yes Berna yes yes Kirk yes
 Now we have the amended ordinance. Any final comments or any discussion you all would like to have? Yes, Teresa.
 Well, I do want to say thank you to the applicant for working with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust and also designing a building that's quite attractive even though it is going to be used for storage. So thank you for that. This is really challenging me to figure out how to vote on this issue, but I just wanted to say thank you for all the work that you've done on this.
 Okay, let's vote. Care to please call the roll? Hertzberg? No. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. All right, thank you all. Let's move on to new business. Thank you.
 Number one, a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with Ecological Design Group Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $262,000 for design services associated with phase one improvements to Underwood Community Park to approve project tenancy in the amount of $15,000 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I do have a slideshow for you. Since agenda session, I went back to give you a little bit of background information on this project. In 2018, we, I don't know if it's up yet,
 2018 in preparation for the bond project we did a little bit of planning and one of the things we looked at were where do we need parks in the city we have quite a few gaps and in the West was a was an area that was pretty pretty lacking especially up in the northwest and we wondered how how would we be able to fill that gap so you can jump to slide two and then maybe three after that
 Well, fortunately, the site of the old Razorback Golf Course was purchased by the Underwoods,
 And they began a process of rezoning that many people in the community became very interested in. You know, it was a Razorback Golf Course, which was a recreational use. And then the need of the community park was very strong in that area. And these things coming together led to a process that really resulted in our new community park for the city. Okay.
 So with that, we ended up with 38 acres right now of land that was donated by Lauren Craig Underwood. We also have about 20 acres that we're using now with a no-cost lease. There's more land that will come and eventually the park will be about 65.5 acres.
 So the land is really unique. There's a lot of floodplain issues and there'll be one of the slides I'll show you kind of explain a little bit more. But we looked for a firm to do the master plan that had a lot of experience in the ecological kind of genre, but also in recreation and in social aspects and what this park could do for the community. Because we knew, you know, a strong community park would do very very much for the community. We want to make sure we can do the best we could.
 So we had a meeting
 Our first meeting was kind of a brainstorming meeting, asking the community what kind of things they would like to see. And we asked in that some questions. We asked four kind of different directions that we might pursue in the park. One was nature immersion. You can see up there these four, active living, play and social emphasis. And those three scored real high. We did ask one about history. The site has some real neat history with the
 higher education as being on the first sites in northwest Arkansas. But those the prior three rose real high and as we went through the planning process we had two more meetings where we came and started to give more in-depth information. These three themes or ideas really resonated with the people and the park began to partner all three of those items into the park design.
 So we had real good feedback at the meetings. We also had a lot of feedback on the surveys and so forth.
 as we got to the end there were some concerns and we ended up having a fourth meeting because there was concerns from some of the um particularly neighbors that the park was going to impact them i'll show you in the next slide how the floodplain had pushed development kind of to the north so we went through another step where we were able to alleviate some of those concerns and reduce some of those impacts and that that got good feedback so with those steps um
 think we were able to end up with a really strong master plan and it was adopted in january of 2024. so jumping to that next slide you can see how the floodplain really does interact with much of the site and so that's why some of the development that you're going to see in the next slide has moved so far to the to the north the next slide here you can see the adopted master plan
 And in that first phase, the work's going to be mainly where that red area is. And as I talked about in agenda session, most of the funding, we have $2.4 million for construction. Most of it, about half of it, is going just to infrastructure, road, parking lot, restroom,
 stormwater type things and about half of it's going to starting the recreational amenities including the playground, pickleball, basketball, picnic areas, milk and green areas, and some other sports spaces. So I think it's a good first step to move forward with the park. Jump to the next slide. Here's just some imagery that was generated through the planning process. Maybe the next one.
 near the parking area and all. But we believe that this is going to be a great park. It'll be unique. That's something real important for the community parks to be unique. And it'll join in with Wilson, Gully, Walker, and the others in a strong way to help the quality of life for the city. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Ted on that?
 No questions. I just wanted to thank you and your staff for all of your work on this. This has been quite a process and all the activities that you guys put together were super engaging and all the public meetings were awesome and I really appreciate you putting together that last minute meeting. I think it was helpful. So thank you guys so much. Sure. I'd just like to follow up and thank you guys also. This looks really awesome. I'm very excited about it.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, thank you, Ted, and especially for today to kind of refresh us on the process that you went through. I do want to kind of bring to everybody's attention that we're still a few outstanding issues and maybe many of those parks and rec can't solve. But hopefully collaborating with other city departments, we can we can resolve some of that. Thank you.
 There were lots of concerns about traffic on Dean Solomon, making that left-hand turn out of the park entrance. And so I hope during this process of development and going through this that maybe that can be investigated and looked at and made safer because that was still a very serious, outstanding concern.
 The second item was really kind of providing that shading or that barrier between the neighbors to the north. So I hope maybe in the next phase or even during this phase that that's also taken under consideration and I think that will solve lots of problems right there. Totally agree. Okay. And thank you again. I really appreciate all the hard work you have put into this and we're so excited. I can't wait for that park.
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber tonight? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor.
 Alright, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Motion to approve. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? I think it's going to be a great park. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Herzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Okay, let's go on to number two. An ordinance to enact 166.28 permit-ready building design program to provide for the establishment of a permit-ready building design program and associated development requirements specific to the program's residential buildings and to establish an initial program area. Mayor, this is an ordinance. Oops, sorry. Go ahead.
 Whereas City Plan 2040 lists 25 short-term benchmarks to be completed by 2025, including create pre-approved building types for identified neighborhoods, and whereas for City Plan 2040's six goals are related to this benchmark, we will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority, we will discourage suburban sprawl, we will make compact, complete, and connected development the standard, and we will create opportunities for attainable housing
 And whereas city staff and the Planning Commission recommend approval of an amendment to the Unified Development Code creating section 166.28, Permit Ready Building Design Program. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby enact section 166.28, Permit Ready Building Design Program to provide for the establishment of a permit ready building design program and associated development requirements as shown in exhibit
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby establishes an initial permit ready building design program area as shown in exhibit B attached here to and made a part hereof. Okay.
 Hey Britton. Thank you, Mayor and good evening Council. I am Britton Bostick with Long Range Planning and today that also includes housing. So I'm here to talk about our permit ready building design program. And what I'd like to cover in this program is some background. We have been working on this for some time, so I just want to remind everybody what we've been up to.
 talk about the proposed program area. There should be an exhibit in the packet. You'll see as a map with a lot of zoning colors on it. That is part of our request to you all this evening. And then also two different sections. Stay with me. I'm going to present the proposed development standards that were forwarded to you by the Planning Commission.
 And then I'm also going to talk through some changes to what the planning commission forwarded to you that staff is now proposing. Now that we've got a little bit more information, we have some adjustments that we'd like to recommend to you all. So I'll walk through that all kind of one at a time. So we have in our plan a benchmark or an action item, if you will, that says create pre-approved building types for identified neighborhoods.
 And the City Council approved a contract to do exactly that and develop a pre-approved building design program in October of 2022. The program title did begin as Pre-Approved Building Design Program. So if you thought you heard wrong, you didn't. We have a new title coming with this as we've kind of worked through the program and are ready to present it to you all. And the project did initially imagine four to six designs specific to the project area context.
 And our project area or our study area is the downtown master plan area and also the Walker Park neighborhood plan area. And you can see that in the black outline on the map that I'm showing on the screen. So this is our kind of initial study area and what we considered, looked at thoroughly, and this is the basis for the program that I'm bringing to you all today.
 What we heard during our input that we took over the course of over a month early in the project, the primary concern and what I really want to highlight here are concerns about the compatibility of new buildings with existing neighborhoods.
 The neighborhoods that I've shown you on the map are two of the oldest neighborhoods in Fayetteville and the housing stock is some of the oldest housing stock in the city of Fayetteville. That makes these neighborhoods subject to a higher level of redevelopment activity than you might see in newer neighborhoods.
 And so the new houses coming in or the demolition of old houses with new houses being built, we heard a lot of concerns about the new housing not always fitting in, if you will, with the neighborhood or looking like it belonged there. We also heard concerns about the cost of multi-unit buildings. More building code requirements usually add more prices. And then we heard from our development and builder communities that infill should be easier to build.
 particularly when it comes to sidewalk construction and stormwater management. And we also heard interest in adjusting development standards, things like residential parking requirements, and interest in adjusting zoning standards, allowing for smaller lot sizes and providing some flexibility there, like townhouses and tandem lots.
 And so we did a pretty substantial study of the program area. We looked at how many properties had existing housing, what vacancy we had there, kind of what the potential for additional infill was, at what scale could that be. And we talked a lot about affordable housing in Fayetteville, so we wanted to be sure to show this information.
 Single family, large lot detached housing does not provide us a lot of opportunities for low cost housing at this point in time. But you can see as you slide from the red on the left of the screen to the blue on the far right of the screen, the more units you can put on the same amount of land can drive down housing costs because you're able to gain greater efficiencies.
 and that's important to the program at the same time we didn't want to overwhelm the neighborhoods because that was a concern that we heard and I'm sure you all hear as well from your constituents so what I'm bringing to you tonight is an ordinance for a program that is completely voluntary nobody is required to use this and these are not the houses that we are requiring anyone to build in the program area what we are offering is a voluntary program to provide
 You with free plan sets if you're in the program area and in exchange for that, those plan sets are designed for that compatibility and designed for gentle infill that helps us accomplish some of our housing needs in this neighborhood.
 And so you'll see the proposed program area is a little bit smaller than the downtown master plan area and the Walker Park neighborhood plan area. That's because the smaller scale residential buildings in our plan don't necessarily fit in well on the Fayetteville square. That's not the type of development we're looking for there. But we are looking to be able to allow it in areas that already have residential development, single family homes, a lot of historic homes.
 And also up to some small scale apartments and even some larger apartments. So that's kind of piece one of what we're asking for the council today. What the planning commission forged to you is a set of development standards. Again, this is a voluntary program and so we're kind of saying if we are going to provide you with plans to build and this is the area in which you can use them, we would like you to do a few things for us that are getting at some better outcomes we don't always have the opportunity to have through our regulations.
 So we don't want people to be able to build the exact same house one after one after one after one all in a row. We are wanting to require variability so that you can't build more than two of the same together. You have to choose different housing types. We want buildings to have a street facing orientation. You need to face the direction you're intended to face.
 We also want screening for solid waste and recycling containers so that those are tucked back. We hear a lot through the short-term rental concerns about people leaving their trash and recycling on the curb. So we're asking people to have those back and be screened. And then we don't have specific stormwater regulations here. We just want to address the fact that those requirements need to be met and we'll work through that through the permitting process.
 For parking and driveways, this is where we had a lot of feedback from the development community that some flexibility in residential parking standards would be really helpful to give people flexibility in site design. So what we are recommending here, what we're proposing here is that one, site plans show that required off-street parking or where you have to show your car parking on the lot not be in the front yard but be to the side or behind the house.
 Currently, you're allowed to park in a driveway, but we're asking you to push that back so that cars are not the focal point of the front. And then kind of in exchange for that, we are proposing that the residential parking minimum be reduced from two parking spaces per dwelling unit or per house down to just
 We're also proposing to exempt projects from parking lot standards when they're between five and 13 spaces. Currently you're exempt from parking lot standards if your four spaces are fewer because it's to acknowledge residential parking is not typically in a parking lot situation unless you have like an apartment complex or something larger.
 And then also the parking lot construction standards and also parking lot design standards. And I know I have a question about that from agenda session. And then also tandem lots, we're proposing that parking for dwelling units or houses on tandem lots is not considered offsite parking if the parking spaces are located on the parent lot.
 Think about it this way. A tandem lot is often like a rear created flag lot. And this is saying that if you have two lots that are working together, you can put parking on either of them. And again, that's to provide folks with a little bit more flexibility on parking.
 We're proposing a minimum driveway width of eight feet that gives again a little bit more dimensional flexibility and then also requiring that shared driveways have to be utilized to access parking areas for attached townhouse dwellings and that helps us to keep from having front facing vehicle oriented site designs. If you look at our catalog of designs, you'll see that we don't have front facing garages on these houses and so we're trying to get parking in the rear and protect those streetscapes.
 This is where I'm going to make a little bit of an adjustment. Hopefully you all got a handout, two separate sheets. One should be a strike through copy of 166.28 and that's what I'm going to cover here and then in a minute I'll go to 171.13. So we're proposing in response to the concerns about sidewalk construction, we're proposing that basically sidewalks have to be constructed but we want to be able to go straight to a
 Rather than having home builders build a sidewalk, we want to be able to allow them to pay us to build the sidewalk instead. And it's something that we currently allow through a waiver. We're proposing to change the language to allow people to do that kind of from the get-go and not require a waiver or any kind of variance for that.
 The public works director did remind us that we want Sidewalks to be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. So the red is what you see that's changed from what the planning commission forwarded to you all. We did not have that language for the planning commission, but we've added it in here. And then at the very end of this section, another reference to the Americans with Disabilities Act because that's the expectation for compliance.
 So at the very end of 166.28, we are proposing some changes to the language the Planning Commission forwarded
 so that we can be more consistent with our sidewalk construction standards that are laid out in 171.13. It's a different chapter of code, but it's what describes our sidewalk, our sidewalk fee and lieu, and various aspects of that. So the changes that you see are really not meant to change what the planning commission recommended to you all. It's meant to more closely coordinate with the language in 171.13. And so if I can, I'd like to
 Switch your attention to the 171.13 handout. That is the proposed strike through language. We might get to this in a minute, but this is not something that was with ‑‑
 10 minutes is up, right? Could we allow her to have more time? Oh, absolutely. May I have five more minutes? Yep, I suppose if they're okay with that. Are you all okay with that? Okay, go ahead. That would be great, thank you. Thank you all very much, I appreciate that. So the strike through copy that you see for 171.13 are the staff proposed changes to that section of code. This is not what was recommended to the U by the Planning Commission. They did not have the opportunity to review this.
 This is also not in your packet because we spent the time between agenda session and the meeting today working through how to more closely coordinate the new chapter 166.8 with this existing chapter 171.13. We are essentially proposing to change the language talking about a waiver to a variance
 and then allowing payment of the fee in lieu for sidewalk, not just for this program, but for any project where sidewalk construction is required, as long as these six criteria can be found to be met by the city engineer.
 The city engineer can still require sidewalk construction on all projects, but there's a special carve out in A3 that a project being constructed pursuant to 166.28, our building or permit ready building design program would have the option to pay fee in lieu without requiring this variance. That kind of green lights that fee in lieu from the go and not require a special variance.
 while everyone else would still need to go through that process. So the next bit is just changing the waiver language to variance, simplifying the language a little bit, renumbering because we need to, and then here's a piece that I want to highlight for the council.
 This language originally required a rate of $5 per square foot of sidewalk for the fee-in-lieu option. And one of the things that we looked at with the permit ready program very specifically is that is not enough to cover the cost for the city to construct sidewalks. So in order for a fee-in-lieu to work, we need to be able to recover our costs for developers to pay us to build the sidewalk.
 We were initially going to look at only proposing that for the permit ready program, but working with our city engineer and the engineering staff, we would like to go ahead and propose to the council that we make that adjustment now for all of the fee and lieu so that we can bring those fee and lieus up to where they need to be for cost recovery. And we set a very specific reference there, which is determined by a yearly bid for construction or also we could use the Arkansas Department of Transportation published
 weighted averages or similar data. One little point I want to make too, we had contributions must be expended within a one year period. We're wanting to adjust that to seven years to be consistent with state code which allows us to go to seven years. One year is really quick to try to extend that and then the back of the page does not have any edits.
 We do have a webpage ready to go. There is a webinar there that you can watch. It's about 20 minutes long if you want to learn more details. And so we're happy to share that information with the community. And we have an exhibit downstairs where we've been receiving some very helpful feedback. We'll have that up for the rest of the week.
 Again, staff in the Planning Commission did recommend this and the Planning Commission provided us with a unanimous vote to bring it to you all. We have some proposed changes and I will defer to Mr. Pennington on how the Council might go about that depending on what you all would like to do. We received two formal comments in favor and two comments expressing concerns about technical aspects of the program. I believe my time is probably up but I'm happy to answer questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Brett? I'm sure you have a few. Teresa and then Bob or however you all want to do that. Okay, maybe I can start. Some of these might be pretty quick. So I just want to clarify the compatibility with the style that you're presenting before is not new style that's been created in the last five years.
 historic style of those neighborhoods. So what you should see in the catalog is things that would be very familiar from historic buildings, and that is sloped roofs, a lot of gable ends, that kind of triangle shape that you see, windows that are taller than they are wide, front porches, and a lot of the materials you'll see rendered in the elevations look like
 siding rather than some other maybe more contemporary materials. Now you can do that with a contemporary like material itself, but the appearance tends to be a little more traditional. And so it mimics more the Victorian or craftsman style, some Italianate styles from the 1880s that you would see in the downtown and the Walker Park neighborhood areas. And some new housing also reflects those characteristics as well, but they're really drawing from those styles from around the turn of the 20th century.
 So in terms of materials, you just talked about style, which was great. Would they be able to use something like corrugated siding or something like that that's more contemporary than historic?
 So what we're working on right now is some guidance. Basically the plans don't intend to provide that specifically because we're looking at more traditional building materials I think as far as what the plan sets provide. What we do want to acknowledge and what I think is an advantage of this program is we're going to have about 30 building designs to choose from and that's to my knowledge the most of any city in the United States that's doing this kind of program currently.
 But we know that personal preference is key to this. So we're working on kind of a system of if someone wants to make changes to the exterior, like the materials, what kind of changes would be allowed because they would still fit within what we're trying to achieve as far as neighborhood compatibility, but then what kinds of changes might not fit what we're willing to provide because that's helping us to get to our goals. So I don't have an exact answer immediately, but that is something that we're working on and working toward right now.
 Excellent. Okay, second question. You know, you mentioned that it was the downtown district and also Walker Park, but also you made a few changes. How were you able to come up with that boundary, those boundaries there? This is a really good question. Do you mind if I go back?
 No, please. Okay, so the buildings that we're proposing for the launch of this program are fairly small residential buildings. And we have a lot of those in this program area. So this is about 1,200...
 pieces of land or 1,200 parcels total. It's 320 acres, a lot of land. But if we used our master plan areas, it would be even bigger. So a few factors, if we looked at going north of Dixon Street, there is a steep slope there. It's not in the hillside hilltop overlay, but it's a steep slope that is probably going to require a level of engineering that would not work with this program since it's meant to be ready to go to permit.
 We also, because these are not housing types that work well for a dense urban core, we pulled away from College Avenue, we pulled away from the square. So you'll see the square and I think even the block that we're standing on right now are not included in the program area. That's not where we would expect.
 normal houses to be but in areas that typically do have houses that's where we were focusing the program on and Then one thing that I will point out here You'll see that we're just on the north side of Huntsville Road And that is the one place we start to creep into a hillside hilltop overlay area It kind of weaves in and out of these parcels what we wanted to do is not have the program split that part
 particular street and give people the opportunity to look at doing this on both sides but we do know that there may be some steep slope issues that we might have to address or that this program may not be a good fit for that particular site due to slope issues. So we're trying to stay on flatter ground and trying to stay out of the highest intensity areas and that's ultimately what created this map.
 Thank you, Britt. And that was really helpful. One, I'm going to go back to parking. I know. I'm so sorry. I'm ready. You knew I was going to get to that. So if you have an eight-unit complex and you've reduced the parking from two to one per unit,
 but you have a parking lot that's over five spaces. How does that work? It would be great to have a couple of examples. So our parking lot standards are meant to be for parking lots based on the number of spaces, no matter what the type of development is. And for a residential development of the scale that this program is going to probably achieve, they're not gonna act like public parking lots.
 And so one of the things that we get is we want to build more units, but the parking lot standards, when that means the drive-out widths that we have to build, the way that the parking has to be angled, the way that all that has to work,
 kind of takes up a lot of space on the lot. So if we could use less room having to accommodate vehicle turning and all those other factors that are written into our code, and more room for houses, we could get more housing. So our buildings are typically between maybe one and three bedrooms.
 And in a lot of this map you see neighborhood conservation. That's kind of one unit per lot typically. Or you could have an AVU or accessory dwelling unit maybe. But it's a lower intensity of development. Not so many buildings on one single lot. When you get into the blue areas, the darker blue and the lighter blue, that's your opportunity to do multiple buildings.
 which would then create multiple parking spaces which would then probably cross that threshold into the 5 to 13. So if you only have up to four parking spaces, let's say you have a duplex and you don't want to do just one parking space, you want two parking spaces and you can have that here. If you want two parking spaces for your duplex, that's four, but you're still under the threshold of having to build a parking lot.
 If you have two duplexes, all of a sudden, even though it's only two duplexes, you have to build according to commercial parking lot standards. And that didn't seem to be the right fit for the scale of the program, so we're proposing essentially that this would be treated more like typical small-scale residential parking. And it doesn't mean that there's no review of parking. It just means we're not going to hold you to what effectively turn into commercial parking standards with all of the different traffic turning configurations.
 But there still will be review and you still won't be able to do just anything. That's extremely helpful for me to understand the logic behind that. I mean, you know, I get complaints all the time about how there's no parking. And so just when we reduce parking, it doesn't mean the cars go away. It means they go somewhere else and that may create other problems.
 That was very helpful to understand your logic behind these changes. We had a lot of conversation about that because we hear that same concern. And so what I think is helpful is that we had a really big overarching staff conversation about this. I even had a long conversation with our department about this because we,
 Parking in the street in a way that blocks our streets is dangerous for emergency services too. So that's not an outcome that we want. What we like is that because we're the ones offering the plans, we're not looking at large
 count bedroom houses. We're looking at a smaller bedroom count that we can kind of take that context into closer consideration. And we can also monitor how this program works so that we know if there need to be adjustments because when we looked at that and said we've heard what people are asking for, we've heard the need, and we want to take this opportunity to look at that with a plan that we can control, that seemed like the better option rather than just
 letting it happen anywhere and with any building because we know that there are concerns as much as there are people who are saying this would be a really good thing to do.
 So you'll be actively monitoring how this progresses? I have absolutely no doubt I will hear about it immediately if there are problems, and I also expect that I need to be able to stay on top of that because that question will come up as the program moves forward. And I think it's an important aspect of tracking metrics to be able to report back on how the program is performing. Yes, ma'am. Excellent. I mean, it looks like a great plan. Thank you for all the hard work, you and the rest of the staff on this. Thank you so much.
 Bob. Yeah. I echo the thank you. Thank you. Thank Jonathan. Thank everybody that had a hand in this. Yeah, if you've had a hand in this, thank you. I was able to come by this afternoon with Evelyn. You gave us a wonderful walkabout, answered all our questions. I appreciate the parking questions. I didn't think about that. And thank you for the explanation. One thing I really love about this is
 kind of how the house, the designs you chose really fit with the vernacular of historic Fayetteville. The front porch,
 I say this a lot in Ward 1 when I talk to people about, Ward 1 is a very front porch kind of neighborhood. And so all these designs, every single one of them, I think pretty much has a front porch and really fits in with that kind of historic image. And I think, do you believe this will fit in with the, like if we get this historic district moving forward, because there's a lot of overlap here. As a matter of fact,
 100% overlap. If I'm looking at the map right. 70%, I measured. Yeah, do you think these designs will basically should fit within the context of a Fayetteville historic neighborhood? Would you agree with that? I think they could. And the reason I say that is because the point of a historic district is really often the same thing that we're trying to achieve here, which is context sensitive design. We have the opportunity with this program to do that from a position of incentive,
 rather than a position of regulation, which I think gives people the opportunity to see what we mean when we say this is the kind of thing we want here before a historic district may come in with specific standards that people are expected to meet. So it's kind of the carrot first approach if you will, but because I have the wonderful opportunity to be involved with both of these efforts and both of these projects, believe me I have been
 thoughtful about the need to kind of think through what the future looks like not only for this program but also for the city and how we can be sensitive to the requests that have been made not just specifically with this program but with other things the council may be considering thank you so much for that question and um
 We talked about other programs around the country that you looked at and a lot of those programs are limited to only like five designs or eight designs. That's correct. Would this be one of the biggest programs design wise? By our count it would be the largest selection of buildings available so typically you see only accessory dwelling units or back
 cottages on the west coast and they may have eight a dozen designs available a lot of the programs that started started the way we thought we would start which is four to six designs that would be ours and this would be locked down and South Bend Indiana in particular right now is trying to double their portfolio because they don't have enough design options available to meet kind of everybody's taste
 and preferences. So they have four of these under construction right now. They've had their program for about two years. They've got four of these under construction, and they're trying to expand their portfolio, which we would start at three times their current goal portfolio set, which I find really encouraging, because we think based on our research and based on talking to other communities that variety is going to be key to success. Thank you.
 the thing kind of wraps up i would suggest if people haven't looked at the designs available downstairs i mean it's just so cool and so impressive so again i'm very wowed by what y'all put together i would suggest that if i'm ready to pass this no questions asked but if people do have questions um
 I would be willing to let this be tabled so that people can get their questions answered and come on board with this because I think it is so fabulous. And, but yeah, thank you. Thank you. Let's get a little public comment though Bob before we pass. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Mayor. Britton, I just want to confirm that all of the carrots
 are only applied to individuals that choose voluntarily to participate in this program. If I want to come build a monolithic three-story flat roof corrugated metal building that's rusted, I don't get to use any of the benevolence that's being applied here. I am not going to be able to offer that if the council chooses to move forward with what we're proposing. Thank you.
 I just don't know if I can follow that question with a good question. Two questions and number one, I mean it's a great proposal. You've done a tremendous, everybody involved has done a great job on this. My two questions are something that people have brought forward to me is the concern that the rear only option is rear facing garage.
 their concern was didn't we address that, didn't we have this debate two years ago or when everyone, when so much opposition came to that kind of concept requiring us to do that. So how do you leverage or not leverage, but how do you address that concern? If you want a front facing garage, because that's what works for your site, what I think would be helpful is
 this is the great thing this program can be iterative and because we're looking at a catalog selection that's going to come with the licensing agreement we have the opportunity to swap things out so if people consistently come to us and say i really like this design but especially my lot will only allow a front-facing garage i think we should look at that i think we should look is that the condition that we need to be able to meet
 But what I have heard so far is that people want things to be consistent with the historic fabric, which is not front facing garages. So although that might be a preference for a lot of folks, that's not my starting point because I don't feel like that's what I've been asked to do with this program. And so but I'm willing to adjust if that's what we need to do and we have the opportunity. So how would someone that has a lot that would necessarily.
 accommodate a forward-facing garage, how would they address that with you? You could probably do it a couple of different ways. So if you wanted to use one of our plan sets, you could provide that modification. I think you would need to show us where that garage would go because here's what's happening. The buildings will be designed. They'll have been reviewed to meet our building codes and our standards. And so if you're coming in with something that's not what we're providing to you, we're going to have to see how you're going to build it.
 So, I don't know that we would say no, but we would need to talk about that and see that. The plan at the moment is not to have any forward facing garages, although we are looking at designs that have garages, but they're either a side or rear entry for the conditions that can meet that. Okay. Second question is, uh, uh, with the work that you have done to streamline the, uh,
 Application process all the stuff that goes into this. Are we taking what we are finding in this project and potentially trying to streamline our operations for the community outside of this design zone?
 There's a lot of opportunity there that I think is going to need a little bit more time than this program will need to complete. But I'd like to give credit to our building safety division because they were on top of this before we came in with this program in terms of working with subdivision development and kind of having a plan laid out for show us what all your different houses are and those plan sets, lay out your development, show us where they go, and we've already reviewed so it's like faster to understand where this house is going.
 So think about that model and that's essentially kind of what we're applying here. So the opportunity to process improve stays open and I think we're really going to start getting that important feedback when we stand this up and have it customer ready here in a couple of months. And that's what I want to do with this program is take all of the feedback that we can through it.
 is a way to remove barriers to housing and how can we be part of that solution. But I need this stood up and operating before I can see it with this program in particular, although we're also working on it in other ways. Like I said, building safety was even ahead of this program in starting to make some of those improvements.
 We're working on it and I know it probably looks like it takes a long time but sometimes it does to vet it through everybody and talk enough with our development community to say what can we do. And that's why also you're seeing the sidewalk fee and lieu included in this.
 Sidewalk construction is just a barrier to getting houses completed, period. And this is a step that we can take toward removing that barrier for our home builders, which is a good way, I think, to approach this at a scale that we can really critically look at it and then look at that success needs to be scaled from here. Thank you. It makes perfect sense. I think any time we can do our best practices.
 streamline our best practices and then push those out to further Operations, it's it's a plus it's a win for everybody if we can scale some of what we've learned here and are about to learn even More I think it'll be a success for everybody Thank you. Yes, sir But I just want to make sure we all understand that this is a voluntary thing and if you want to build a Big giant garage facing the street You're you're welcome to do that under our current and that current system will exist and
 Still even with this implemented any other questions mayor?
 Could I add one thing? Sure. Just from a procedural standpoint, what you're looking at tonight is section 166.28. There were some changes to 171.13 that cannot be addressed tonight because state law says we can only have one subject in an ordinance. So that would need to be brought forward either by staff or a council member as a separate item. So if you were to want them to go into effect at the same time, then you might want to delay this item tonight.
 If you were to pass it tonight and it were to go into effect, all it would do is revert to 171.13 and that $5 a square foot cost of the sidewalk fee in lieu. So if you want the two changes to happen at the same time, then this probably needs to be tabled and a second ordinance needs to be brought at the next meeting. Then we just bring it back in two weeks. That way we can do them both at once.
 Right. I mean, that's what you're saying? Yes, sir. Okay. Well, that's good. Well, let's continue on with the conversation. Oh, anyway. All right. Any other questions? Any other? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, those present in the chamber,
 Are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the room first? Who do you have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back so we'll hold this for two weeks. Is that part of you? I need to make a motion for that.
 Do we need a motion? We need a motion. Table for two weeks? Assuming you don't want to make the amendments to 16628 tonight, you can just leave it on the first reading, and we can bring it back next meeting. Yeah, that's right. This is not a resolution. It's an ordinance. Correct. So we just let her sit right here. Okay? All right. We'll get it done next two weeks, Bob, I promise. Okay. Okay. I'm excited about this, too.
 Alright, let's go to number three. An ordinance to approve vacation 24-01 for property located at North Bob Yonkin Drive and West Drake Street in Ward 3 to vacate five feet of general utility easements totaling .108 acres. Pretty small. Okay. Okay.
 Whereas, the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas, the City Council has determined that the following described general utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the general utility easements as described in exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 Two, new easements must be granted to SWEPCO AEP following utility routes and equipment layouts with easement plat. Three, the northernmost utility easement 23A-195 must retain at least 10 feet south of the existing sewer line based on the actual survey of that line. Utility easement will be verified with submittal of the easement plat. And number four, duct paths must be provided from the street right of way of Bob Youngkin to the individual units for AT&T.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to North Fayetteville, specifically in Ward 3, due south of the Washington Regional Medical Center. It includes three undeveloped lots of the Appleby Landing subdivision, which was planted in 2005. If council recall last year, these three lots were all rezoned from their previous RO residential office zoning district designation to RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 Later that year, a large scale development was approved for 64 units and the project is in her, excuse me, construction design, which brings us to the item tonight. You can see side by side an aerial snippet of these three parcels laid out next to the survey drawing of the property.
 Where those easements are specifically, you can see here indicated with the red arrows, this includes a strip of easement running along Bishop to the north property, running east-west, and to four scattered easements straddling the property lines between the other three parcels.
 The main issue that staff identified in reviewing this request is that northernmost easement is the location of an existing Fayetteville sanitary sewer line. And there were some concerns initially from the utility department as to how to treat that. Ultimately, they consented to the request and included a condition of approval, which you heard Mr. Pennington read a moment ago, and which I'll summarize here along with staff's recommendation.
 which is that the northernmost utility easement will maintain 10 feet south of that existing line, which will allow the utility department their standard 20-foot coverage from each side of a public main for them to be able to access it and repair it.
 The other conditions came from other franchise utilities, including that Swepco expects to have their easement needs addressed with the easement plat associated with this project. And AT&T requires duct paths specifically for their facilities to get back out to the nearest right-of-way. And finally, a standard condition of approval that you all see with every utility easement request is that any damage or relocation to existing facilities will be the developers or the applicants to bear. Okay.
 With that said, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Brian Teague is the applicant for this item. And I don't believe he's present in the chambers. I haven't had a chance to see if he's online. Is he on? Okay. Sorry, Mayor Tim Bryziel is here as the applicant on the item. Okay.
 Good evening, my name is Tim Briseau. I'm the builder, developer, applicant, owner, wear a lot of hats. I'm happy to answer any questions. Jonathan really summed it up as just one of the final steps in our entitlement process on this project. Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or staff? Everybody good? All right. Thank you. All right, then. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 please stay on topic give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone on two addresses that's in the chamber on this topic do you have anybody on zoom okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take
 We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wedeker? Yes. Burnett? Yes.
 yes tur yes an ordinance to approve vac 24-01 for property located at north bob yuncan drive and west drake street in ward 3 to vacate five general utility easements totaling 0.108 acres move the suspended rules and go third binary
 Second. I have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 24-01 for property located at North Bob Yunkin Drive and West Drake Street in Ward 3 to vacate five general utility easements totaling .108 acres.
 any final comments from the council care which please call her up yes yes yes yes all right thank you all very much number four
 A resolution to approve the JERHR Group LLC's non-uniform staff pay and benefits study to approve the 2024 non-uniform staff pay plan structure and to approve the 6.34 budget for the pay plan.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm here with Blair Johanson from JERHR, our city's compensation group. And last week we went over the presentation covering the study, and our staff is recommending that city council approve acceptance of the study, which includes acceptance of the new merit system, which is a 6.34% adjustment to the scales. And we're here for any questions that you might have.
 What questions do we have? Sarah. With the 6.34% and you said based, it's merit-based, is there a set percentage that all employees will experience and then the additional amount that would be for merit or is it all based on merit? Yes. I'm sorry. I meant to say non-uniform instead of merit, but it is our non-uniform system, graded system.
 Okay, so again, just to clarify on nomenclature here, so at this time there is no additional percentage that's been included for merit. Is that correct? That is correct. We would move the entire range 6.34%. Okay, and then last year, this is a follow-up, we did do a merit increase. Is that correct? That is correct. We had, I cannot remember if it was 5% or 5. Oh, we did 6% last year. Okay, thank you very much.
 Any other questions for council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this on this topic that's in the chamber tonight? Okay.
 Have anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. I have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comment? Yes. Well, I understand my colleagues are ready to move forward. I have provided some information that I think just yesterday that I know can be a lot to decipher. And so if you will entertain me for a few moments, I'd like to go through it just this
 quickly as I can just for some considerations and things over this past year as I've had some conversations with people in the community that I just at least wanted to bring to our awareness. I don't know that this information is something we can act on today. Maybe it is. But if not, I'd like it to be in our consideration set as we're looking at pay scales going forward because there have been a lot of pressures on the markets and a lot of pressures across the nation in regard to the
 pandemic and the responses therein, inflationary measures. And so, you know, these pay has been quite out of, you know, out of whack, for lack of a better word, with what the inputs are for an everyday family. And so I just kind of want to go over that so that when we think about our city staff, I think, you know, these are my neighbors and my community members who we're kind of both going at together where, you know, all of our inputs have gone up. And so, you know, I think
 If you're able to bring that slide forward, if you'll bear with me, I'll go as fast as I can. I know there's a lot of eye chart here, but I'm going to tell you where my source information has come from. Oftentimes, I bring up Allison, Arkansas, and I forget that individuals are not aware what this project is. But really, there is a crisis budget that has been a project that's been put together by many businesses, University of Arkansas, Winthrop Rockefeller Foundation.
 And what it really was focused on was looking at trying to understand because of these escalatory costs, because so many jobs in the state of Arkansas, over half in our state are paying a wage of $15 an hour or less.
 folks were struggling to make ends meet and so they started these studies back a number of years ago. So here and just to quickly walk you through and what I really want to point out that this doesn't say a thriving budget, this does say crisis survival budget so this is like
 if there is something that comes up or an emergency that folks are not able to meet it. But if you look at the one box on the left, that comes published from that website that you're able to look at. And it puts housing and rent and utilities you see for two adults.
 and two children at only right around $800. We know in our area that obviously is much higher childcare at 761, and I'll let you kind of read through that, but it kind of goes through the everyday things that are part of a family budget.
 That comes down to a full-time hourly wage that would have to be earned in that household of right over $27 an hour, which obviously is not being achieved in our state. And if you look over, I've kind of tried to look at the survival budget, just adjusting for the housing prices in Fayetteville. You know, there's...
 There are very few places, and you usually have to know someone to go grab those places that are under $1,000 nowadays. And so if you look at kind of that all-in, again, survival budget for a single adult, that looks at, you know, getting close to $16 an hour that would be needed just to survive. And if you're looking at that four-person family, you're looking at about $34 an hour that needs to be earned in that household. Let me go to the next slide.
 So that's kind of thinking in that crisis mode. And so there's another study that's been going on that's happening with MIT looking at a living wage calculator. And these are like economists, and they put these formulas together. And so it's been scrutinized. And I think I sent you an article because nothing is perfect.
 perfect right a whole of these models and take different assumptions in and don't always you know take in the all in account but this basically if you look at the right I'll focus on what it looks like for a family of four it basically
 for a living wage in the state of Arkansas that a person would actually have to be making one adult almost $22 an hour with all of those different inputs. And again, you can see on the website at the MIT Living Wage Calculator, it shows you all the all-ins. I'll let you scroll through that because there's probably about 20 different things and they adjusted over time. It was adjusted just February of 24 was the last adjustment. But I bring all that forward to you just
 to kind of think about when we look at the individual staff pay there was conversations at agenda session and I know that there was a lot of strides made towards trying to make sure that folks are making 15 or 16 dollars an hour
 But whenever you you look at the individual pay even with six point three four percent We're going to have folks that are going to be making you know that sub 20 and definitely you know not in that 22 Reign towards talking about you know being a living wage Will you go to that next slide?
 Some other considerations that I just want us to be thinking about when we think about the 6.34%, and again, whether or not we do something today or where we go from here, is that we've had other employee increases. You know, the mayor and the city council, we all received a 9.62% raise, and that comes yearly based on a formula, so that's what we experienced for 24 years.
 There's been ongoing inflation that's happened in 23 at 4.06% and 9.59% in 2022. Those are all being absorbed into the cost of like our city staff and our neighbors budgets.
 When I looked at the US outlook, and again, I'm not an economist, it's a Google economist on this. Employers were planning to raise their compensation budgets in 2024 by 3.5 percent for merit, and 3.9 for salary increases. That's about 7.4.
 One of the things that I just wanted to kind of put out there is I understand there's a bit of an eye chart, and so I don't know if you can read that over to the right. But just quickly walking through it, that today we have 208 city staff members that make under $21 an hour. At the new 6.34% pay, we'll have 162 that will be under. So that will take those folks that will be over that going back to that living wage calculator.
 And I don't know where that possible floor is going forward or what we tie our requirements to going forward. In 2017, I believe, we made some of the requirements for our pay scale. So that's probably something we want to look at of the all-in considerations when we do the pay studies.
 But I at least wanted to put some quick napkin math together. One of the things, all of our staff has been reviewed and when we just asked earlier about whether or not there is anything in our budget currently for merit, unfortunately the entire
 changes it's going to go into just moving the whole system. And unfortunately, there won't be anything left for any merit. And so I wanted to think about in the event there is any wiggle room for merit, that's about $300,000.
 And I took that in consideration of some of the merit outlooks from the US Outlook. When you look at whether or not we can take all of the individuals that are making under $20, just trying to kind of set that as a floor, you see that additional funds that would be needed to do that floor are about $340,000.
 that doesn't take into account obviously the compression that would occur within all of the pay scales and that's something else that we'd probably have to think of another 10 to 15%. And so tonight I'm not asking to not say yes to the increases that were being asked through the pay study. What I'm asking for is consideration. I know the budget is tight right now given the constraints we're seeing versus budget.
 But where we can find the wiggle room, I feel like these are, you know, some of the things that maybe should be some considerations either for midpoint or midyear adjustments that we might be able to make or looking at for next year because we will be on uniform staff and not at all.
 non-uniform so I'm happy again I know that was a lot of information that I did just want to walk it through and I'll provide that to everyone but I appreciate being able to to share that information and just that that consideration of what you might be able to look at thank you thank you Scott Scott yeah I think mayor as a business owner I have to look at
 hiring new employees quite often and i'll also have to look at compensating my employees adequately i have to look the same way as i'm sitting on city council uh i have to to have the best people you have to pay them you know the best they expect the best so but the way i do it as a business is i compare what market studies tell me that in my market this is what i need to pay
 to get the best employees. I don't go to, with all due respect, I don't go to a website that does a study that says in Arkansas, I should pay them this much. I go to what I know my market dictates. And that's exactly to me what the city has done. They've done comparisons with cities around us. They have taken that in consideration
 And they've not been doing this for many years, this same comparison, you know, can it be tweaked? Yes, but if we're going to change that and we need to change it on the front end, not midstream. And that's what I feel like that would do. Secondly is
 i think the number that you're looking at and i understand you said that that you don't expect anything tonight but realistically uh maybe missy or paul can answer this question but if we took this study as it is today i think it said average was 21 6 76 or 73 an hourly range or wage and if we took someone at 15 dollars an hour to that amount of money what would it cost the city
 If we took people right now and raised them to $21, that would cost the city $631,000. Now, that just pushes those people under $21 to $21. That would cause major compression. Now, if you cause major compression, you're going to have to address that. The proper way to address that is to raise the percentage for the entire study
 and raise it by that same percentage. Now that percentage increase for those people from from currently $15 an hour, which by our pay plan would go to $16 an hour, that would be 31.2 percent increase. If we raised everybody,
 32.1% increase, that would across the board cost us $11.2 million just in one year alone. It would cost us $15.3 million on an annual basis if we looked at that. Now, that's if you're going to look and address compression. That's what the cost is that you're talking about at this point in time, and we really don't have the sources to fund that.
 Okay, so the only way that to raise that kind of funds to pay for something like that would be to raise taxes and cut services, correct? Well, what you would have to look at, number one, you'd have to look at cutting workforce. You could cut workforce, cut the workforce, you're going to have to cut services.
 Or you can try to cut services and save some money that way, save some of the expenses associated. That would be one way, but again, you're cutting services. Or number three, look at taxes. The only real tax we've got we can be sure of is property taxes. Beside the property taxes, you're going to have to raise for the water and sewer fund. You're going to have to raise rates for water and sewer.
 recycling and trash collection, you're going to have to raise rates out at the airport for those utilities. So you're going to have to look at multiple ways of doing that and one of the ways of doing that in the general fund would be for property taxes. Okay, and my second question is on the MIT study it shows the 2176
 was that, and that was, I believe, a two-parent with two children in daycare. If that was, you know, obviously that doesn't take into account every employee, you know, what it would look like, every employee. If we take that as an average, where does that dollar amount come in?
 because you've got single employees. Missy might be the one to answer that. I think this would best be for Missy, but again, we don't know whether our, we don't ask our employers whether or not they're married. We don't ask them how many children they have also. But Missy, you would be the one who'd answer that.
 Yeah, Blair is really familiar with the MIT study, so I thought it might be helpful for him to dig into that number a little bit for you, if that's okay. So the amount on the Blair-Johansson JER HR group, the amount on that $20 plus that you were looking at looks at two earners with two children, and so when you take the matrix for the MIT, there's 12 cells in that matrix looking at different household size and the
 either one or two earners or no earners. If you take that whole matrix and do an average, you come up with $29.94 for two earners. So each earner would need to make $14.97. And the market study that we just completed shows that the lowest pay grade minimum is $14.51. $14.51.
 So our recommendation in working with the cities is that you should definitely target towards $15 because one, the market at about $14.50, that puts you a little bit ahead of the market at the lowest minimum.
 And you're also, if you look at the MIT, it's $14.97 per adult if you look at all the groups. And so you need to look at all the groups because your workforce makeup is not two earners and two children. It's a real variety of different mixes. So that's why we take all of it together.
 So if you're looking at 1497, then there's not really a reason to get to 21 because that's not really practical based on the market study as well as the MIT study. So if we can get to the 15 and as the mayor was saying 15 to 16, then that really puts us in a good position to be able to recruit and meets the objective of being competitive. It also meets the objective of the living wage.
 So we don't have any non-uniform employees making below 16, correct? Currently 15, and then it will go to 16 when we implement the 6.34%. Yeah. Thanks, everybody, for your explanations. Paul and everybody, I really appreciate that. Council Member Moore, I appreciate your comments.
 you're looking into this and you're giving us kind of an overview of these things. But one thing I noticed in your numbers, it seemed that you were saying a family of two needs this much money, but you're only counting like a one income earner, you know, in your numbers, right? Like you were showing the income that one person will need to make. In most households that I know of, both people are working. I don't know too many people with
 And I know they're out there, but it's more of an outlier in our society nowadays. Well, I mean, I definitely, sorry, I don't want to cross talk exactly, but since you asked me a question, I apologize. So I guess in trying to simplify, yes, there are a variety of households. And one of the things with the Winthrop Rockefeller study that they've looked at is that the all-in household calls for a single person actually oftentimes per person is a much more skewed, obviously, it'd be higher.
 because they have to bear all those costs. And yes, we have single parent households and things a lot. And unfortunately, a lot of folks here are underemployed as well. Yeah, I understand. But when we looked at those numbers and you're saying a family of two with an infant means, was it 32, 34 an hour? Well, if both parents are working, they got that even at our minimum.
 I apologize, not talking into the mic. If they were both working 40 hours a week, yes, split down the middle. Like I know the Winthrop Rockefeller Foundation, you could split that down the middle, yes. And that was one of the ones that I showed that basically said that's not taking into account anyone doing savings, nobody doing emergencies, no one going out to eat and those types of things.
 Okay, thank you. Okay, Mark. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I don't want to prolong this, but I believe that all the studies are simply looking at pure, raw, hourly salaries. And Fayetteville, like most employers, will have a benefit-loaded salary. And so we pay vacation pay, we pay
 premiums towards health insurance, things that are not just subtracted out of the hourly wage. And so we're getting probably pretty close to $20 an hour for our lowest paid employees when you look at all the additional pays. The advantage for them is those are not taxed.
 salaries. We are probably deducting those before taxes and they're contributing obviously towards those benefits, but when you look at the full benefit load, I think that's a really healthy picture. Thank you. Okay. What? Don't we have a motion on the floor? Do we have a motion? Yes, we do, don't we? Yes, we do. Carowich Police call the roll.
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yeah Moore yes Ledecker yes Burnett yes Bunch yes Turk yes okay number five thank you all resolution to obligate funds in the amount of two million three hundred and twenty six thousand dollars to facilitate the city-wide 2024 employee compensation adjustment
 Paul. Well, this year, normally I come back the last few years. We didn't have enough in the budget to cover what the recommended pay scales for this particular year. We did have enough in the budget. We had anticipated.
 the rate study and we have enough so we don't have to inform the council to fund the recommended pay plan that we have to look at increased revenue other than what we had in the budget so we've got a just a couple of slides we'll go through very quickly first one if we look at the financial impact and what what what we're what this particular resolution is doing is implementing the plan and
 So would you bring the first slide up for me? Okay, right now if we look at the general fund and the impact on the general fund, we can see the step increases for fire and police for the general fund would average increase of 4.24%.
 would be five hundred and thirty seven thousand six hundred dollars for this year for 2024 and the annual impact that goes into the budget going forward would be seven hundred and thirty five thousand three hundred dollars the impact for the merit
 pool this year would be $925,400. And impact going forward would be $1,265,700. So the impact from this year to the general fund is just under $1.5 million for the combination, or $1,463,000. The full impact for a year, which will take place and be embedded next year, will be $2 million.
 If we go ahead and go forward, we'll look at what the impact is on all of the funds, not just the general fund.
 So the partial impact as we talked about on the general fund is one one million four hundred and sixty three thousand dollars the street fund will be 162 thousand dollars parking twenty four thousand dollars community development sixteen fifteen thousand six hundred dollars parks development one hundred thousand dollars drug law enforcement grant eleven thousand five hundred dollars and
 Water and sewer fund, $286,000. Recycling trash collection, $178,000. Airport, $28,900. And the shop fund, $57,000.
 So again, the partial impact overall is $2,326,000 for this year. That's going to be embedded going forward into the 2025 budget of $3,183,000.
 Again as we've talked about there is sufficient funds in the current budget to cover this without having to anticipate an increase We looked at January January's a little soft however between a combination of What we expect to go forward we may run short on our estimates for revenue this year, but we have sufficient sufficient reserves to cover this moving forward again a
 When we put together the pay plan, and we've discussed it at that point of time, one of the mayors
 primary goals was to pay a fair wage we had the We had the study to try to evaluate what the fair wage what the fair competitive wage was You've seen that presented to you. We have sufficient funds to cover this So we're asking this resolution be passed to implement the plan and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then I
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? Do you have anybody on Zoom, Susan? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. And second.
 have a motion in the second to pass the resolution any final comments from council care which please call the role earthsburg yes stafford yes jones jones moore yes wedeker yes verna yes bunch yes turk yes thank you all very very much all right i guess concludes our
 business do you have any announcements no announcements tonight lots of news coming out but no not one to specifically talk about okay anybody got any announcements or anything thank you all we're adjourned