I'm going to call the city council meeting of March the 3rd, 2015, to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Latour. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God.
 The first order of business we have tonight is Connie, I believe, Connie Edmondson, Director of the Parks Department, has a presentation for us tonight. Good evening, Mayor and City Aldermen. So excited to tell you tonight we have the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association here to present a check to you.
 Back in the spring of 2014, they made a promise to the city that they would help pay for the purchase of Gully Park expansion. And sure enough, they made that promise and said that they would pay by February of like 2017. Well, they have the check tonight for you. So I have Bobcock and some other...
 from the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association and the Friends of Gully Park to make that presentation to you, Mayor. Wonderful. Okay, Connie is our, well, first of all, John Coleman, our chairman, was supposed to be here tonight to make the presentation, but John is under the weather. He's planning on going on vacation tomorrow, and he's going to sleep as fast and as hard as he can all day today and tonight so that he can go to Mexico tomorrow for vacation. Okay.
 As Connie mentioned, back in August, the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Commission made an association committed to raising $130,000 towards the purchase of the land to expand Gully Park. We felt it was important to accept this additional challenge on top of our Kessler Mountain Challenge to help make this project go forward and to demonstrate community support because opportunities to add to important enduring green network features in urban areas are
 are limited or rare. City staff and the park's users were very excited about the possibility of expanding the park and the Friends of Gully Park and the Cow Patty Foundation were the ones that agreed to do the fundraising lead and tonight representing them we have Wade Colwell and Max Mailer back in the back. The results of the effort we undertook are complete now.
 We have the check here and you'll have to listen to a few more words to get it. We have plenty of time Bob. There were 75 total donors to this project and I wish to thank each and every one of them. And in particular I want to mention again the Friends of Gully Park and the Ka-Padi Foundation folks that actually did all the heavy lifting on this to make it happen. In addition, there were three donors that need special mention.
 Kay Palmer gave a very, what I would call a very generous donation. Buffington Homes gave what I would call an extremely generous donation. And the Walton Family Foundation provided a matching grant. This grant was the first grant that the Walton Family Foundation has given under their new sense of place strategy that allows them to invest in open space. And Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association qualified for this grant in part
 because of the enduring green network that's in the city plan 2030 that identified the area around Neocosco Creek as a conservation priority. And for that, I want to thank you folks for having this as part of your plan. Before giving the check, I wanted to offer Wade a chance to speak if he wants to. He doesn't have to, Wade. You know, as you all know, Fayetteville is a wonderful town, and we've got wonderful people that care about the town and the folks behind me.
 The Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association. We've really been blessed, as you know, with people like Bob Koch, Dwayne Wolchin, Judy, Pete Heinzelman, and their spouses. These retired folks can do some pretty good work. They've been able to bring this forward to the community.
 I thank you for your efforts in allowing us to do this. We've got a lot more precious areas around here to preserve and protect, and it only makes Fayetteville a better place to be every time we do that. But thank you for everything. Thanks, Wayne. Max? Hang on a second, Pete. Max, do you want to say something? How cool. How cool is this?
 I think it's just really interesting to see the donor list when we had people from college students in Colorado to people in Maine, California, all over the entire US that were from Fayetteville at some point in time and saw it as something important enough to them to talk about but also put some money at it. So I thought it was pretty neat.
 and i just wanted to say that it's uh pretty cool and i look forward to watching it continue to grow as maybe one of bayville's most central part thank you guys thank you one more mayor city councilman i wanted to say a few things mainly about wade because i think that he he has championed the acquisition of this of the dung property the extension of gully park and really
 in the first place, is probably the reason we have Gully Park today. Wade grew up next to the Gullies farm, and that was his playground, exploring, fishing, and just having fun. As the years went by, Mr. and Mrs. Gully were getting on in years. Wade asked them if they would like to sell the land to the city so that it could be preserved as a park. They agreed, and Wade took the offer to the city council, and they agreed.
 And now we have this wonderful park, complete with open fields, trees, playground, trails, and an incredible gem, Neocosca Creek, which flows through the park and also through the Dunn property. The name Neocosca was chosen by the fourth grade class of Root School and is an Osage Indian name, meaning little people of the middle waters. And this was originally their land, the Osage people.
 An appropriate name, by the way, for all the little people who now enjoy it. My granddaughter actually was one of those fourth grade classmates. When the adjacent Dunn property came up for sale, Wade again saw the value of this open natural land and brought public attention to it. Then working with Max Mahler, his associate,
 He raised the money to help the city purchase the land, together with a matching grant and financial backup from the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association. They were able to raise $130,000, as you know, to help the city expand this wonderful park. The question may come up, why save natural areas in Fayetteville? Here's one answer that was in the front page article of the first issue
 of the FNHA newsletter, spring 2004. And I'll read it. That's the newsletter. And at the bottom of the first page, the last paragraph, it says, what do these natural areas mean to Fayetteville? To us, they mean keeping Fayetteville's future bright. Many communities do not have the wonderful natural areas that we have.
 When a business, family, or an individual decides on a place to locate, where will they choose to go? Will they choose a city with congestion, jammed streets, buildings, traffic, and nothing else? Or a community that has preserved its special places to walk, to ride, to recreate, and to just enjoy? We in Fayetteville need to make sure we preserve our valuable natural heritage and pass it on.
 so that our families and others will have a great community to live in. So I think it is appropriate to thank Wade, and it is certainly appropriate to thank all of you on the City Council and Mayor Jordan for saving these special places for Fayetteville and for future generations who will live here. Thank you. Thank you, Pete. You want me to bring it up there or are you coming down here? Don't worry about that. Thank you very much.
 Wonderful. I certainly want to thank the Federal Natural Heritage Association, John Coleman, and Wade, and Max, and Bob, and Pete. And I know that Wade and I visited several times on this piece of property, right Wade?
 It was great to preserve another great natural area in this city. So thank you all very much. And, Council, I want to thank you because I know that you worked very hard on this as well and staff. So, again, anybody else? So thank you all very much. All right. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the February 17, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $11,315 and increasing the related expense budget. Number three.
 A resolution to award bid number 15-19 to Pig Trail Harley-Davidson of Rogers, Arkansas, and to authorize the purchase of three 2015 Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the total amount of $59,742 for use by the police department.
 Number four, a resolution to award bid number 15-22, Truck Centers of Arkansas and authorize the purchase of two Freightliner M2-106 trucks with can recycle bodies in the total amount of $340,852 for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 15-18 to Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated of Federal Arkansas for the purchase of two 2015 Ford F554x4 trucks with reading utility bodies in the amount of $91,407.52 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number six, a resolution to approve the dedication of 22 feet of right-of-way
 from Center Line or Oakland Avenue along the east side of 940 West Maple Street, as recommended by the Planning Commission. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of four Hustler Super Z mowers from Williams Tractor of Federal Arkansas in the total amount of $47,857, pursuant to a state procurement contract.
 8. A resolution authorizing the purchase of one New Holland T6.155 four-wheel drive cab tractor with loader in the amount of $73,255 and one New Holland Workmaster 55 four-wheel drive tractor in the amount of $20,195 from Williams Tractor, a federal pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative purchasing contract.
 Number nine, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a John Deere 611 5D cab tractor with H340 farm loader from the Countryside Farm and Lawn of Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $68,607.76 plus any applicable tax pursuant to the National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement. Number 10, a resolution to authorize the contract with Game Time CEO Cunningham,
 recreation in the amount of $21,030.45 pursuant to a state procurement contract for the purchase and installation of playground equipment for Prism Education Center. Number 11, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize federal aid recreational trails funding and authorizing the application for a 20% local match grant to the Arkansas Recreational Trails Program in the amount up to $75,000 for the construction of three sections
 of boardwalk on the Lake Federal Natural Trail. Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 14-66 and authorize the contract across the construction company incorporated the amount of $11,788,362.19 for construction of phase one of the regional park to approve change order number one to reduce the contract price by the amount of $2,358,997.27.
 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $528,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 15-15, and authorize a contract with Goodwin and Goodwin Incorporated in the amount of $707,007.50 for construction of a new 18-inch water line for the Kessler Mountain Regional Park Water Line project to approve a project contingency of $70,701.
 Number 14, a resolution to approve an amendment. Number 1, to the contract with Garver LLC to add construction phase services on the Kessler Mountain Regional Park Water Line project in an amount not to exceed $71,200. Number 15, a resolution to approve an amendment. Number 2, to the agreement with Lowe's & Associates Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $322,000.
 $137 for construction administration services for phase one of the regional park project and approve a budget adjustment. Number 16, a resolution to authorize a contract with Grubbs, Hoskins, Barton and White, incorporated for construction materials testing for phase one of the regional park project in an amount not to exceed $91,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay, under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition.
 RZN 14-4882 for approximately 21.63 acres located on the east side of Rupert Road, north of the Boys and Girls Club from RPZD Residential Plan Zoning District, RPZD 06-1884 Westside Village to NS Neighborhood Services. The ordinance is left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved.
 Second. Motion and second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kingin. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4882 for approximately 21.63 acres located on the east side of Rupert Road north of the Boys and Girls Club from residential plan zoning district.
 06 dash 1884 West side village to neighborhood services. Jeremy, do you have any. No updates. Just a reminder, this was an expired planned zoning district. Staff has brought this forward to rezone it to neighborhood services. It's on the east side of Rupert Road, due north of the Boys and Girls Club. I believe Alderman Long was going to speak with some residents in that area, and that's when we held it on the. Is there any questions from the council on this? Good. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Okay, here we are. Move we go to the second reading. Well, we go to the second. I mean, we could go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4882 for approximately
 located on the east side of Rufo Road, north of the Boys and Girls Club, from Residential Plan Zoning District 06-1884, Westside Village, to Neighborhood Services. Okay, any final comments from the council on this?
 Good. All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. Number two. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4938 for approximately 2.5 acres located at the northwest corner of Cross and Main Streets.
 from the expired RPCD residential plan zoning district Markham Hill Cottages RPCD 09-3237 to RSF 8 residential single-family 8 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion second to go to the second reading. Sandra would you please call the roll. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes.
 No, Chair. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 14-4938 for approximately two and a half acres located at the northwest corner of Cross and Main Streets from an expired residential plan zoning district, Markham Hill Cottages, RPZD 09-3237 to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. Chair Greg Musil.
 This was toured last night by some council members and the mayor. We walked the site. The proposal is to rezone the property to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. The Planning Commission did not agree with that recommendation by staff and actually recommended the property be rezoned to RSF 8.
 Staff is comfortable with either one of those zoning districts, but the property was zoned RMF 24 prior and the properties surrounding it are also zoned similarly. The applicants may be able to speak to their intent, but of course keep in mind that we're looking at the zoning, not necessarily the development for the site. We do feel like it is consistent with our city plan, particularly with the ordinances we have in place regulating development in hillside protection areas, which this would encompass.
 So staff is supportive of either zone that you choose. This is another expired PZD, the second on your agenda, and we simply prefer it to be zoned something for the applicant or future property owner's use.
 So, we need to stay focused on the zoning and not what's going to be built, correct? I want us to be clear. Yes, since there's a zoning request and not a planned zoning district, there's no bill of assurance so that they really ought to only speak about what kind of uses are allowed on this. RSF 8, of course, single family is primarily allowed there in fairly narrow lots, and RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 is the typical apartment zoning, but of course you can put other kinds of uses on that land. Okay, I'm going to ask the applicant if they want to say anything. Gentlemen, okay, thank you. My name's Andrew Henson. My partner, William, back there, and Mike Bowman, the developer of the property as well, the applicants.
 We would just like to say first thank you for taking time out of your day yesterday to come in and look at the property and obviously the The way the terrain is that's the reason we are asking for the RMF 24 It was RMF 24 before and because of the terrain and everything this makes it very difficult to develop So we'd ask that you consider RMF 24 and I'd be happy to answer any questions Yes, what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or staff? anything
 Jeremy, you mentioned that some of the surrounding area had similar zoning classifications. So south, east, and west of this property are all zoned currently RMF24. North, I believe, is zoned either RA or RSF4. I don't remember off the top of my head. It's in one of your maps there, but I just have to find it.
 But it would allow for also residential uses, which was all that this particular zoning request allows as well. So it would be solely residential use within this area, just at a higher density. It would allow for multifamily or single-family. Thank you. Any other questions? I have a question. Yes. The PZD that this was under before, how many units was that authorized for? It was between 17 and 18 dwelling units per acre.
 Okay, we will take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Please introduce yourself. Keep your remarks directed to me. Don't engage council members or the public. And give us your name and address and away we go. All right. Who will be first? Come on, Tom.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, council members. My name is Tom Brown, and I live at 2031 West Main. Several of you visited the neighborhood the other day, yesterday, and I appreciate you coming by. Mr. Williams, our city attorney at the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting which considered this, mentioned that years ago, back in the 70s I believe, sir, there was blanket rezoning done to 24 units per acre.
 No rhyme or reason, no investigation on specific sites, just let's zone it all, R24. Okay. I believe the gentlemen that want to develop this property have said that some of that land is not suitable for development. And then I believe, if I understand correctly, they're saying what we want to do is increase the density on some of these other parts of this two and a half acres because we can't develop some of these other areas.
 Now, I could be wrong, but it seems to me that when we set up zoning, we're trying to stabilize neighborhoods for certain kinds of development, that this neighborhood has been, since the 1940s, mine was one of the oldest buildings on that original property, has been single-family units until recently when some duplexes have been put in. Duplexes are rentals. Rentals are different from single-family home units.
 owners, different values, different behaviors. If I'm not incorrect, all of you own your own homes. No, Mr. Petty, a lot of you own your own homes. And you recognize that home ownership is a traditional American value. And it's different from being a renter. I've been both. When I'm renting, I don't have the same attitude towards my environment, my neighborhood, as I do when I own the property. And since I own this property at 2031 West Main,
 I would like to get more homeowners in my area than renters. That's my perspective. That's my interest. And I'm here to advocate my interest the way some developers want to advocate for their interests. And you're stuck with a ball. Please, do not put this up to 24 units per acre. Please, put this back to the 8 units per acre that that land is suitable for developing. Thank you very much. Thank you, Tom. Any questions for Tom on this?
 Thank you, Tom. Anyone else want to address us on this? I'd like to make one more quick comment about it. We are willing as the applicant to step down a number if we had to to make it easier from instead of the RMF24, I believe we could still potentially get a nice development done if we stepped it down one or two numbers on the zoning if that would help or if that's something you all would consider as well. Okay. All right. Any other questions? Okay. Is there any other public comment?
 Yes. I'm going to bring it back to you all or do you want me? Well, not public comment. Okay. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, I'm glad some people from the council got to go visit this area. This is a hidden gem in the area of Fayetteville, just very close to the university.
 very close to Pratt Place, but in a very wooded area, low infrastructure in a lot of the surrounding area. I think RMF 24 is too high of a density, but RSF 8 might be too low.
 Is there something, Jeremy, that we could look at in between, like RSF 12? That's what I was going to ask. What's this step? There is. So to allow for, still allow for a multifamily use on the property, which I believe the applicant desires, but to step down the density, we have at least a couple of density options there. Below RMF 24, we have an RMF 18 and we also have an RMF 12.
 The next one actually goes below eight, so it's RMF of six. I know we have 19. Which is only six units per acre. We also have a RT-12, which is a residential two and three family. This would allow a single family, two family, and three family units, an agency of 12 units per acre. So they'd be very similar to RMF-12, just wouldn't allow any more than three attached units. So that's kind of the option of range between eight and 24 that we have available. Okay. What's everybody thinking here?
 I'm thinking like I always do. I think the landowner knows what's best for his property, and I think he has the strongest incentive. He pays the insurance, he pays the taxes, he defends the lawsuits, he prepares the maintenance. And I would defer to the landowner in this case. If they want RMF 24, I would grant them RMF 24. But I, too, would compromise if they would compromise down to a lower number. But they are the ones that are putting the pencil...
 to the paper and making sure their development will work financially. I'm sure their bankers are very interested in seeing that, or whoever's financing the project. And the project has to be economically viable or nothing will happen. We don't want just wilderness in our city, we want development. That's what I'm thinking, Mayor. Okay, very good.
 Kitch, you had something that you... I just wanted to try to clarify that I did make some comments in the Planning Commission about the mass rezoning that was done in the 70s. I'm sure I didn't say it was done without any rhyme or reason. Obviously, the city council at that point in time had their reasons. They did large rezonings of areas. It was maybe not the kind of detail and care that we do now, but I don't want to disparage the previous city councils.
 or let people think I have disparaged them. So it was a large rezoning, but they had their reasons. We might not always agree with their reasons, but they certainly had their reasons when they did that mass rezoning back in the 70s. OK. Sarah.
 Well, I will say, I did go out and tour the site on Monday, and it definitely makes me nervous seeing a wooded hillside go up for development. But I'm going to put some faith in our hillside protection ordinances and in our tree preservation ordinances and our drainage criteria manual and hope that those things are going to do the job and protect the people who live downhill from erosion and stormwater runoff. And...
 you know ultimately as far as proximity to goods and services i do think that this is a good location for housing and i would support up to an rmf24 i like the idea of having a variety of housing types you know not everyone needs a single family owner occupied home over 50 of our housing in this city is rental and i think it's important that we maintain having a diversity of housing types available
 So, you know, I think the RSF8 is probably too low, but I would be willing to go up to an RMF24. Okay. What's everybody else thinking? Yes, pal? I have a question for the developer. Sure, absolutely. If I could ask a question real quick. Would the RMF12 designation accomplish your goal? You mentioned compromising between the two.
 I believe that we could. Eighteen would, would, is that the, Jeremy, is that the next down, eighteen, I believe? From a density perspective, it would go twenty-four, eighteen, and then twelve. Okay. Eighteen. It would make it more challenging and more difficult. We would, obviously, we'd be willing to step down to eighteen without, without any question, would be a number that we could live with.
 We'd have to go back and make sure that the project would potentially still be viable without for me just saying, yes, right now we could absolutely do it. 18, I can go ahead and give you an assurance that's not a problem. And while you're still here, Jeremy, you said that the old zoning expired PZD held up to 17 units. I think it was 17.4, 17.6, something like that, so right in between 17 and 18. So that would be an approximate estimate.
 number equivalent to what it had before so I'd like to see it amended to RMF 18. Second that if it's a motion. Is that a motion? It is a motion. We have a motion to second to check the zoning to R18. Correct? RMF 18. I'm sorry, RMF 18. What discussion do we have on that? Mayor, I would, I'd like to see us do that. I feel like that is a nice compromise between the
 neighborhood and the and the developers and so I think that would as far as I'm concerned that that would be fine. Okay. As Sarah says it is a gorgeous piece of property and I want it developed to the to the very best and I think these gentlemen will do that. Okay is there any public comment on the new zone? That'll bring it back to the council.
 So we have a motion to second to go to RMF 18, correct? Yes, to amend the ordinance to that. All right. Any other discussion on it? All right, let's see. We need to go to the third meeting. Let's do the amendment and get it. Okay, okay, you're right. I got a little ahead of myself. Okay, any other comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Now we need to go to the third and final reading. Yes. Yeah. Move we go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. And motion to second go to third and final reading. So I would just please call the roll. Long. Yes. Second. Yes.
 Right, yes, Marsh, yes, Kenyon, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay, and now we're in its rezoning that property described and rezoning petition RZN 14 dash 4938 for approximately two and a half acres located at the northwest corner of cross and main streets.
 From an expired RPZD, Residential Plan Zoning District, Markham Hill Cottages, RPZD 09-3237, to RMF 18, Residential Multifamily, 18 units per acre. Any final comments from council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay.
 Number three, resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to offer for sale approximately 1.25 acres of city owned real property on Owyre Road near Gully Park. Connie, I believe you have this. Connie Edmundson, Director of Parks and Recreation. In the summer of 2014, City Council, you purchased 11 additional acres from the Dunn family for Sticks Band Gully Park.
 At that point in time, our memo described that I would be coming back with you to request the sale of the two homes. At the point of purchase, the Dunn family was not interested in selling the homes aside from the property. So we took the whole thing.
 City Ordinance 34.27 establishes a procedure for the sale of municipal-owned property. And within it, it says that city council must pass a resolution authorizing the sale and that city council shall determine whether the property should be rezoned or appraised prior to its sale.
 So we are requesting the sale of the two single-family homes that are existing there. It's about 1.2 acres. We are requesting that you accept Reed & Associates appraised price at the time of purchase.
 In the resolution that our city attorney has before you, it sets a minimum bid at the appraised value of the homes, which is $111,500 for the home that is on the north side and the larger home, $218,500.
 And at that point, that the sale of the property would be through a sealed bid process with a deadline of April 20th. And I am asking that you reconsider since it's been, we tabled this item to move that date back to May 4th. So we have just a little bit longer to sell the property. Okay.
 we are also requesting that you keep the current zoning of rsf4 which is what the basically the that whole neighborhood it is at this point in time and if if anything we would like you to go ahead and recommend to approve to establish a resolution to sell the property and if you are wanting to reconsider the rezoning of it
 that we wait to the next time will bring another item to you to resell man that way we can go on and start the sale of the property that we can get ample time if you should choose to resell the property to the neighborhood. So what you're asking and I can't understand correctly is just the intent to sell property tonight and then the zoning come later once we get offers is that it bottom line here.
 If that's what you choose to do. Correct. Mayor, I think the point is that if the property was going to be rezoned something different than the current zoning, which is residential single family for, we think that proper notification should be given to property owners adjacent to it, which is not done as a part of this process to just seek authorization to put it up for sale, because typically rezoning is requested from the landowner at the time that they have plans for the property, so
 may have plans and want a zoning different than what the RSF for is, whoever the potential buyer might be. So we'd like to separate those two in terms of this. This authorization just gives the city the ability to list it for sale. Any rezoning requests, if the council wants it rezoned prior to sale, then we would bring a separate ordinance to the council for just that item, not merged with authorizing the sale of land.
 This is similar to what we did with the come and go property, correct? Yes. And I think the most important part of it is that then at least the adjacent property owners would have received notification of a rezoning request.
 Connie, you need an amendment to do the sale when? May the 4th? We need a resolution to sell the property. No, we have a resolution to do that. We have, in Section 4, it says the bids will be submitted by April 20th. You want to have that amended to say May 4th. Is that right in Section 4 of the resolution? Correct. Okay. So we need to do that first. Yes. Right? Let's do, yes, Al. I just have a question. So regarding potentially rezoning the future before we sell it.
 So we're into that discussion. We have discussed that a little bit. How would we give notification to people? Well, what we do is follow our normal rezoning procedures where it would be presented, the staff I guess would be the one that would be presenting it, but then they would follow all the notification procedures, the mailing the letter, the newspaper, and also put up signs I think, Jeremy?
 We've done that before in selling property, right? Yes. I think that's the same process we followed, as Don mentioned, with come and go. We actually authorized the sale of that property, and we went through a zoning process to zone that to C1, actually after that was already sold at the desire of the council. Okay. Okay. First thing we need to do is amend it to do the sale on May 4th, correct? Yes. Proper procedure. All right. So moved. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to...
 I'm in section 4 instead of paying April 20th for the time when the sealed bids would be submitted we're going to change that to May 4th. Great. All right. Is that what you want? Yeah. Okay, good. All right.
 So which police call the wrong. Yes, right. Yes, March. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay now to the resolution, the amended resolution as it is what comments do we have on that. The public comment on K movie press resolution that motion second pass resolution. Any discussion on that.
 I'm sorry which police color. Yes, great yet Marsh yes, Kenyon yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay under new business number one or three zoning that property described was on the petition or the in 15 dash 4942. Approximately 4.84 acres located at 3010 West of Farmington Road from our a residential agriculture to our S F 8 residential single family 8 years break hit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, as shown on exhibits A and B attached to it and made a part hereof. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 This property is located at 3010 West Old Farmington Road. It's currently zoned RA, residential agricultural. It is located on Old Farmington Road west of I-49 and developed with one resident, stated from the 1950s. It's a little under five acres, a portion of that, as you can see in the map.
 and the green being within the hillside, hilltop overlay district. The request is to rezone the property to residential single family, eight units per acre. And in staff's opinion, this property zoning would be compatible with surrounding land uses to the north, east, and the south.
 particularly to the east you can see in the map there's a residential plan zoning district at a density it's very similar to this actually maybe a little higher that was approved by the council and several years ago to the north is largely RSF to zoning currently but we would anticipate there's a collector street in the nearby vicinity we anticipate looking at that as a potential rezoning in the future it's all shown as a residential neighborhood area on our future land use plan and so that would certainly support
 a variety of density and intensity in terms of the residential use in this area. One commission agreed and voted nine to zero and staff is supporting the rezoning request. Is the applicant here, would they like to say something? Yes, sir. I'm Vicki Bedford. My husband and I and another couple own this property and have for many years. We don't live on the property.
 but we have decided it's time to sell it and RA is not going to be a logical sale in that location. I've spoken with most of you or emailed most of you and had, I think, zero negative thoughts about it. You seem to think that the RSF-8 would be an appropriate density for that. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Any questions from the council on this? Anybody good? Thank you. Is there any public comment on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council.
 Move of the Spend the Rule to go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Heady. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property iscribed in a rezoning petition RZM 15-4942 for approximately five acres located at 3010 West Farmington, Old Farmington Road
 From residential agricultural to RSF 8 residential single family, 8 units per acre. Motion to second the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We'll motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shop Marsh. Luttre. Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-4942 for approximately five acres located at 3010 West Old Farmington Road from residential agricultural to residential single family, eight units per acre. Any final comments? Everybody good? Okay. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. All right.
 Number two, an ordinance waived competitive bidding and approved a memorandum of understanding with the Walton Arts Center, CDI Contractors, LLC, and Bora Architects Incorporated to spend not to exceed $6,323,515 of the 2014 HMR bond proceeds to partially pay for the Walton Arts Center expansion and enhancement project kit.
 Whereas the City participated with representatives of the Walton Arts Center to select CDI Contractors LLC as the construction manager contractor for the Walton Arts Center expansion and enhancement project pursuant to state procurement laws. And whereas the Walton Arts Center is raising private donations to be used along with the City taxpayers bond revenue of $6,323,515 to pay for the balance needed to complete the Walton Arts Center expansion and enhancement project.
 And whereas the city and the University of Arkansas jointly owned the land and the Walton Arts Center incorporated to
 and incorporated the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated to operate the theater and have entered into a long-term lease to ensure the continued operation of the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street, which is very beneficial to Fayetteville's entertainment district. And whereas the Walton Arts Center expansion and enhancement project could not be accomplished without the strong efforts of the Walton Arts Center as well as the important financial investment of Fayetteville taxpayers. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts, I hereby determines that the formal selection process that the Walton Arts Center and the City of Fayetteville engaged in to select CDI contractors LLC as their construction manager contractor almost certainly complies with state purchasing law so that no other formal bidding is legally required.
 but hereby also finds the facts previously stated would also constitute an exceptional situation where further formal competitive bidding would not be feasible, practical, or reasonable so that any possible requirements of formal competitive bidding should be and are hereby waived.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves the attached Memorandum of Understanding in which the City of Fayetteville agrees to pay not more than $6,323,515 for each portion of the cost of the Walton Arts Center Expansion and Enhancement Project as approved by the voters in pursuant to the bond revenue requirements and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign this Memorandum of Understanding. Chair Jerry Cook. Chair Jerry Cook. This is the last piece in a...
 in the project for the Walton Arts Center expansion. As the council will remember, the A&P Commission came forward and recommended that we issue bonds for three purposes. That went to referendum of the people. Those three purposes were one,
 refund an outstanding bond issue, two, help fund the regional park to the tune of approximately $3.5 million, and three, to assist in the expansion of the Walton Arts Center for approximately $6.9 million. That was approved by the voter at that point in time. Subsequent to that, we issued the bonds, secured by advertising and promotion tax revenues,
 At this point in time, we're ready to enter into the actual construction agreement to go forward with this expansion. We've already committed $858,000 to the backstaging areas of part of that expansion program. This is for us to contract with the Walton Arts Center, but primarily CDI, the construction firm, who's doing the actual construction of the expansion.
 and BORA and Associates who are the architects on it to pay CDI, the contractor, for in-progress payments for up to $6.3 million, which would be the proceeds of the bond issue as part of that expansion. I'm more than happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this?
 Mr. Mayor, I should note that at the agenda session I pointed out that we had been working on a contract with the Walton Arts Center, the Memorandum of Understanding. I have a slightly amended version here that has now been signed by all parties but the city of Fayetteville. Thank you.
 The slight change was in paragraph 15, 5, excuse me, 5 of the agreement which simply expanded on the explanation of how the citizens of Fayetteville's about $7 million investment to the Walton Arts Center project would be acknowledged and honored by the Walton Arts Center in there. There should be enough copies, maybe even one for Don if there's enough, if I counted
 So, I am quite satisfied that the language that the Walton Arts Center and the administration agreed to does very adequately recognize the very important investment that our taxpayers have made into the expansion project. Okay. Thank you, Kip, for working on that. What questions do we have? Anything from Paul? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Any public comment on this? Ah, Tim. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 Mr. Mayor, I'm Tim Vogt with the Walton Arts Center. And I just wanted to report to you tonight that a little over an hour ago, we announced that the Walton Family Foundation had given us a grant of $5 million towards this project. It's a one to three match. And we are happy to report that we have raised almost $20 million to date.
 We are well on our way to our target of 23 million to accomplish this project. And I really wanted to just say thank you tonight to the mayor and Don and council and former council members, the E&P Commission.
 and especially to the citizens of Fayetteville, because it was their support, their overwhelming support in November of 2013 to vote these funds towards this project. And we recognize what a great start to the capital campaign that was. It really kick-started everything, and we have had so much support as a result of that.
 I'm here tonight just as a representative of the Walton Art Center to say thank you to all of you. Thank you, Tim Okay. All right. We have any other public comment and we're running back to the council
 Thank you, Matthew. Wake up. Move we go to the second reading. Second. Motion to second, go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a Memorandum of Understanding with the Walden Arts Center, CDI Contractors LLC, and Borah Architects Incorporated.
 to spend not to exceed $6,323,515 on the 2014, of the 2014 HMR bond proceeds to partially pay for the Walton Arts Center Expansion and Enhancement Project
 I can say that the reason I put this in an ordinance in waiving competitive bidding is that we properly selected CDI, I think, without any question. But as you see, the Memorandum of Understanding includes two other parties, including the Walton Arts Center. We're kind of doing a cost share with them. And because it's a $6 to $7 million contract,
 I just like as many backstops as I can have so that no one decides they want to try to challenge it and recover some of the taxpayers' money. Otherwise we would have just had a resolution, but I'm probably a little too cautious. Chair Greg Musil. Okay. Yes. Do we need to make an amendment for your new memorandum? No. It will be.
 I think it was just understood that this will be the memorandum that was approved. I don't think unless, I don't think that you need an amendment to that. I'm substituting this in. And surely, I'm glad you brought that up, though. This is, this will be what you will be approving and authorizing the mayor to sign.
 Move to go to the third reading. Second. Move a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmark? Yes. Latour? Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and approve a memorandum of understanding with the Walton Arts Center, CDI Contractors LLC, and Boer Architects Incorporated to spend not to exceed $6,323,000.
 $500,000, $515 of the 2014 HMR bond proceeds to partially pay for the Walton Arts Center expansion and enhancement project. It's too much money to sell. I understand that, Kit. A lot of money. A lot of money.
 What final comments do we have in the council? Yes, absolutely, Justin. A lot's been said about the citizens and staff and I appreciate those. I also just want to say thanks to City Attorney for
 I really, really like what you did here about featuring the citizens of Fayetteville in the recognition wall because essentially the citizens of Fayetteville are a huge donor. And if somebody wrote a personal check for that much money, I'm sure they would be prominently displayed in that facility. So the citizens of Fayetteville can be very proud, I think, of their partnership. So thank you, Kit, for fighting for that. I appreciate it very much. Okay. Any other final comments?
 Kim's been long haul, hadn't he? Council, I want to thank you all. I want to thank the staff. Kit, Sandra, you did a lot of the paperwork on this too, and I want to thank you. I don't even know what to say anymore. I just, it's a great project and it's a great partnership with the city and the citizens of the University of Arkansas and Walton Arts Center, everybody working together. I didn't think, you know, what, six years ago, I didn't know how far we would get along when we're here.
 it's a wonderful moment in this city one i'm i'm certainly proud of and i know you all are too so thank you very much sondra would you please call the role long yes gray yes marsh yes canyon yes eddie yes yes shopmar yes yes
 Number three, an ordinance to waive the requirements to form a competitive bidding and approve a two-year contract with New World Systems Corporation for software service and maintenance in the amount of $106,690 per year plus any applicable sales taxes. New World Computer Services. It's an ordinance. I need to read the ordinance.
 Sorry, Kent. Whereas the city has maintained a software agreement with New World Systems Corporation since 1992 for software modules in financial management, human resources, utility billing, licensing, netto gov interfacing.
 software and public safety software and whereas the city recently extended a separate agreement with New World Systems for maintenance of its public safety software, but additional service and maintenance fees are necessary to keep the remaining software modules current, thereby allowing the city to continue receiving updates and enhancements to the software as they become available.
 And whereas New World Systems software is proprietary, and the New World is the only maintenance and service provider for the software modules used by the City. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fairlarks are hereby determined an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and improves a two-year contract with New World Systems Corporation for software service and maintenance in the amount of $106,690 per year plus any applicable sales taxes. A copy of the agreement is attached to this ordinance made a part hereof.
 Okay, oh mayor the new world system handles all of the counting and record-keeping for the city Utility billing accounting payroll all of those type of functions in addition it also processes work orders and things of that nature For our operating departments. It's very very critical that this keeps running and running correctly and certainly we are all aware of security issues and
 What we receive for this $106,000 are enhancements or updates, ongoing maintenance, fixes in case we run into any problems. We have ongoing conversation and contact with the software provider. It also gives us membership in the user group, which suggests updates or fixes or new software modules.
 Very important for us. It's $106,000 a year. I asked for a two-year contract rather than a customary five-year contract. At this point in time, we're moving forward here at the city of looking at a new ERP. In other words, a replacement, a web-based replacement for this system, which would give...
 enhanced functionality and many, many things that we don't have currently. You know the system we've had since 1992, but it is critical that we keep it going for the next two years until we select a new package and get that package implemented. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul? Okay. Any public comments on this? Okay, bring it back to the council.
 I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Condor, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmer. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a two-year contract with New World Systems Corporation for software service and maintenance in the amount of $106,000
 Six hundred and ninety dollars per year plus any applicable sales taxes
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sounded to which police call the roll. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a two-year contract with New World Systems Corporation for software service and maintenance in the amount of $106,690 per year plus any applicable sales taxes.
 Okay, any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmarz? Yes. Yes. Okay, number four. Resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,375,000 to fund the citywide 2015 employee compensation adjustment. Paul? Yes.
 During the 2015 budget process, we indicated to the council that the mayor would come back, if possible, with a paid plan for the employees. We wait until the first quarter of the year for two reasons. One, it gives us a chance to look and evaluate the operating results for the prior year. And two, it gives us a chance to look at least period one, which is December sales tax receipts, which in fact we have.
 Based on those operating results and based on that sales tax, the mayor has recommended a pay plan to be presented to the council for approval. After adjusting for the parking deck in Mount Kessler, the fund balances which came out of fund balances for last year. The operating surplus would have been without those two factors, $1.7 million into the general fund.
 An analysis of the other fund indicates that the other funds can't afford the salary package that was put together and is being recommended. During the first quarter of this year, we just talked last week about sales tax and I said I was very excited. You don't see too many outward things looking like I'm excited, but I am. We were up 9.2% compared to last year for the city's penny. And overall, we're up 10%. So I'm ecstatic.
 as far as the plan and the particular particulars of the recommended plan it provides one two per two steps for fire now if we recall back in 2013 we got a salary survey at that point in time we did not feel that we had sufficient funding to recommend the full two steps for the fire but certainly it's been the mayor's priority and i know all of you on the council have uh have spoken
 not only publicly but to me privately, making that a priority for us. And I feel this is the year that we can bring them up to that level and give those eligible two steps for the fire. We'd also provide one step for the police, and the average of a step is about 3.75. It's kind of dangerous to average because it depends on what the particular job is. For example, a firefighter has a different pay plan than a captain does.
 or something of that nature. So each of the slots have their own pay plan, but the average is 3.75. Therefore, the mayor is recommending that a pool of 3.75% be given to the department heads, or authorized for the department heads, I should say, to distribute based on merit-to-demerit employees.
 Any topped out employees, that means the ones who are at the top of their range, and I want you to understand that not only merit employees are at the top of their range, we also have employees in police and fire who top the top of the step program. This would provide for them a one-time service award for the work done in recognition of that that would not go into their base pay.
 Although that particular would move forward it would not multiply over time so they would still stay In the sale same salary level in the future now as far as the impact this plan on the general fund It's nine hundred and eighty five thousand dollars for this year because there's only nine months The full impact of the plan to the general fund moving forward is one million two hundred and eighty thousand dollars to all funds
 It would be $1,375,000 this year moving forward to approximately $1.8 million in the future. Number of employees affected, there would be 678 employees eligible for a raise over the 17 funds that we have and again, brings the fire up to the salary survey level of
 Effect on the general fund balance is estimated to be at the end of this year
 granting the salary increase if we have to take all of it out of fund balance and that's what I have to forecast at this point in time because we don't know where revenue is going to come in, we would still end up with $11 million fund balance in the general fund at the end of the year. By policy we keep $6.5 million that's in case we have any type of financial disruption at downturn in revenue, things of that nature.
 Over and above that, that would still give us $4.5 million as a little cushion. I'm very happy with that position. I think this plan is affordable. Going forward, we look year to year, and if revenues go down, et cetera, we may have to have a different conversation in 2016 for salary increases. But again, I'm very happy with where we are now, especially in view of the capital expansion.
 that you have approved and that we are underway and the uh and the capital improvements that we have on the way i think we're in a very very good financial position in the general fund to weather any storms if we have them certainly within reason i'll be happy to answer any questions what questions we got yes sir i just want to clarify um that we are now we'll have all of our employees at market rate absolutely i can answer that one for you thank you
 That's a correct answer, Mayor. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. Going back to the council. Yes. I have one question. Sure. I'm sorry. Just to Sarah's question. So are we at market rate or above market rate? We're at market rate. At market rate. At market rate. Because we have a city policy of being above market rate on pay, generally speaking. That's why I was wondering what the... I'm sorry. I was just wondering if you could talk about that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 We strive to be above market, but we are at market rate, as of the last survey. Okay. I just wanted to make sure where we were at. Is that good? All right. Move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I think that there's something really important in the memo that Paul Becker distributed to us. And he said that the surplus that's enabling us to do this was achieved primarily through expense control. And I just want to say thank you to all the city staff for your wise and prudent use of city resources that enables us to do this. And I'm very happy that we're finally getting those firefighters up to market rate. Thank you. Any other comments? Yes.
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lutera. Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, we have a couple of announcements. The City of Fayetteville Historic Preservation Award nominations are currently being accepted.
 These are nominations to honor projects, organizations, and individuals that have displayed an outstanding commitment, practice, or leadership in the preservation area in Fayetteville. The deadline for those nominations and supporting material is 5 p.m. Friday, March the 27th.
 members of our community will nominate those deserving individuals and projects. Secondly, the Parks and Recreation Youth Softball Registration is now open and has been open since February the 2nd. It goes through March the 15th. Sign up is on www.onlinesignup.org.
 And then just to make sure that the council is aware, today the National Weather Service issued a winter storm warning for our area today at 1.28 p.m. Our transportation division will be going to shifts at 4 a.m. this morning. We do want to make the council aware that this event is projected to start with freezing rain, which prohibits and limits pretreatment capabilities because of rain first. So if you get questions or calls from citizens saying we don't see trucks out doing pretreatment on the streets,
 We're only able to do that and save and utilize resources as they should be done if it's not a rain first event.
 So just want to make you aware of that. The ground temperatures for bridges, overpasses, and roadways are not projected to go to a freezing level until around 9 AM in the morning. Good news, Friday's mid 40s, Saturday's 50s, next week is 60s. So hopefully a short-lived project, but we want to caution citizens to expect impaired travel tomorrow.
 citizens who have school children. The event is not projected to start until between 6 and 9 which makes it very difficult for people to project closures. So stay tuned and watch closely the normal notification processes. Don, would you recommend that people go ahead and put their trash and recycling out tonight for collection tomorrow? Yes we do because we will get as much of it done before we aren't able to as possible.
 On a somewhat happier note, you might have noticed that I'm actually here tonight instead of being in trial. We were supposed to be in trial over the city hospital land. Fortunately, late yesterday afternoon, our summary judgment motion was granted. And so at this point, the Washington Regional Medical Center is now the fee simple owner of the land as we had attempted to back in 2011.
 What I was appreciative of this is that the judge basically found that what the city did, what the city hospital board did was correct in transferring this deed, and now they can go forward if they want to, and I think they plan to, to sell the land to the city library, the Fayetteville Public Library. So both Don and I are here. Rather than in court, he was going to be the representative of the city, so we were much more happy to be here tonight. Okay, anything else? Thank you all. We're adjourned.