I would like to call to order the March 5th, 2019 City Council meeting. Sauna, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Yes.
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, welcome everyone. Tonight we start off with the presentation from Paul Becker on the monthly financial report. Paul? Thank you.
 Good evening, Marin Council. Normally I'm here telling you about the increase in economic activity that we had. However, this month I'm going to have to tell you about a slight decline we had in economic activity for the month of December. We were down compared to last year. We're down in most categories, actually. Sales tax was down roughly 2.3% compared to budget.
 Billing permits were down about thirty six thousand dollars for the period fees and fines were down and HMR taxes were down So we had a we had a decline in economic activity across the board in the general fund. We're down roughly $113,000 for the December period And that's about two point eight percent compared to compared to budget and
 Street fund was up 5% based on turn backs and that was one of the few places that we were up up in revenue Parking fund was down roughly 6% or nine thousand dollars for the period Parks development again HMR taxes were down a bit. We're down about 2.1 percent compared to budget and parks development
 Water and sewer, we're up 3%. Based on an increase of 3% in rates, we're just about where we were last year as far as activity was concerned. Trash and recycling, we're up almost 4%. That's because of the expansion for the system.
 for some of the changes made by the new trash and recycling initiative. Airport was down about 18% compared to the budget in fuel sales. The weather wasn't good and the traffic was less. I don't know exactly what to attribute this downturn to. I think we've had some cold periods.
 Extended cold periods over the month of December. We know we had the federal shutdown that could have put people Made them uneasy. However, we're going to keep looking at this going forward We're gonna have ups we're gonna have downs, especially when we fund ourselves with With volatile revenue, which our building permits and and sales taxes however
 Say right now we're down about two and a half percent compared to budget. I'm not overly concerned with that at this point in time I'll be happy to answer any questions The next order of business tonight is the consent agenda number one approval of the February 12 2019 special City Council meeting minutes and February the 19th 2019 or
 City Council meeting minutes number two for resolution approving architectural services contract with D mix architecture PA in the amount of $90,800 for design bidding and construction administration services associated with the construction of a new fleet car wash facility and to approve a project contingency any amount of $9,000
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $3,852 and increasing the related expense budget. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $11,298 recognizing hazmat services revenue from Washington County and increased related expense budget. Number five,
 A resolution to approve the purchase of four additional four-year software licenses from Exxon Enterprise Incorporated in the amount of $6,708 plus split taxes to allow city prosecutor division staff to access video from the police department's body-worn cameras and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,000 per year for the purchase of additional licenses as needed.
 Number six, a resolution authorized purchase of four Kubota ZD-1211R mowers from Springdale Tractor Company in the total amount of $52,059.52 pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract for use by the airport and transportation department. Number seven.
 a resolution to approve the purchase of two dodge ram 1500 trucks from superior dodge ram of asylum springs in total amount of forty four thousand six hundred thirty six dollars percent to state procurement contract for use by the water and sew operations division and to prove a budget adjustment number eight a resolution to
 authorized the purchase of a John Deere 630 rotary mower conditioner from P&K Equipment of Springdale, Arkansas, in a total amount of $24,482.99 pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Utilities Department.
 Number nine a resolution to prove the purchase of a new haul in 450 round baler from Williams tractor of a federal Arkansas on the total amount of thirty two thousand nine hundred dollars plus applicable taxes presented to a source well cooperative purchasing contract for use by the utilities department number ten a
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of a Peterbilt 520 with new wave roto pack body from Arkansas Municipal Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $272,907.22 pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number 11. A resolution to award bid number 18-52 and authorize the purchase of two...
 freightliner M2106 recycling trucks from canned bodies from Doggett Freightliner of Arkansas LLC in the total amount of $343,952 for use by the Recycling Trash Collection Division. Number 12, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the first renewal of Contract for Economic Development Consulting Services with the Federal Chamber of Commerce to provide for payment
 of the additional amount of $1,850 toward travel expenses for Chung Tan to attend the 2019 recon convention and number 13 a resolution to approve a five-year
 land lease agreement with NCW PCS MPL 28 year sites tower holdings LLC a subsidiary of the Crown Castle USA Incorporated with automatic renewals for three additional five-year terms for wireless communications tower space near the township water tank I'll entertain a motion except consent agenda is read I
 Sarah so moved mark. I will second that motion we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda as read Yes, yes Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Okay, thank you all Under unfinished business number one
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6490 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 4847 West Wellington Drive from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre, and NC neighborhood conservation to RMF12 residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Connell. So moved. We have a second. Sonia.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? I'm good. Whenever you're ready. Who gave the second? I did. Do you want me to go ahead and do it again? Senator Tarrant. Okay. Yes. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6490 for approximately 7.64 acres, located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, and NC neighborhood conservation to RMF 12, residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I don't have anything to add. Is it here? Yes.
 Yes, would you like to say a few words to the council? My name is Ferdy Forey with Civil Design. I don't have much to add, but I'm happy to answer any questions. I think we've addressed it a few times now. Okay. Is there any questions from the council or anything before we take public comment? Council members from the board, is that your board? It is your board? It's your board.
 We had quite a bit of discussion at the Ward 4 meeting, so I don't have any questions. I think that, yeah, we had a very spirited conversation, and we may have some more tonight, but I think it's been well considered at this point, so I appreciate everybody's patience. Okay. Thank you.
 Anybody else? All right. Then we'll open it up for public comment. Here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You've got a five-minute limit unless a council member by a motion and a second decides to give you more time. We'll decide what that time will be or if they have questions for you. Be sure to keep your comments to the chair, which would be me, and don't engage a council member or anybody in the public. Stay on topic if you...
 Get off topic, I will get you back on topic. And so we would like to have your name and address. And who would like to be first to discuss this issue? Anyone? OK. Well, I'm going to bring it back. We get it. Come on up. Hi. Mayor Jordan, I'm Jim Garlock, a resident since 1974 to 1980, and currently from 1994 to present.
 The city services are stretched at present. Fayetteville's a great place to live. It's a wonderful place to live. It's reached critical mass. We currently have 10 proposals next month for fire, water, parks, and other things that are really pertinent to the infrastructure and the quality of life in Fayetteville.
 And I would urge anybody that hasn't driven down Weddington Drive in the last two months to either abstain or vote against this issue. We don't have the building infrastructure, the park and the police as evidenced by the current proposals and amendments next month. That when we over build, we have to plan for
 the parks, the police, the police stations already overburdened. It's really antiquated and we need to have money to update those services. And I appreciate your time and really do think that Fayetteville is at a critical mass. Continuing to build and overbuild and up the zoning from four to 12 is overdoing it. I appreciate your consideration. Thank you very much.
 Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, Slough. I just kind of want to hit on that point about kind of critical mass and overbuilding. Fayetteville only gets to control mostly what's in its borders and a little bit outside of it.
 People want to move to Fayetteville, people want to move to Northwest Arkansas. And so if we don't let them in the city, if I don't, not allowing any up zones, they end up moving outside of the city and then they drive in and they still use the resources, they still use the building where they work, they still use the roads, they still use the fire and the police.
 So I would rather see the people inside the city that are paying taxes that are using those resources Cities grow all the time None of them really reach a critical mass. They always grow I'm sure people said the same thing about New York 100 years ago, San Francisco And they find a way to keep growing And I believe the bond will help us to continue to grow. I think some of that stuff is looking forward not the past Thank you
 Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Theresa. Well, I've been out in Weddington quite a bit and it is very, very clogged in the morning and in the evening. I am very concerned that we keep adding more and more people there without the appropriate infrastructure to handle all of that. I want to really thank the applicant for coming out last Monday to speak with the ward four people.
 That was above and beyond, so I really want to thank that applicant. I'm just not sure that this is the right rezoning for this area when we have such bad traffic problems, and then this is right in the middle of an established neighborhood. Okay. Kyle. So I've mentioned before I've got a longer track record with this particular property, and I just want to kind of give you a sense of the rest of the area. Okay.
 At our ward meeting, we only had one comment here, but there was a lot of talk about kind of the type of development that this would be. It is a change from a single-family zoning to a multifamily zoning. But if we look at what's right across Weddington in Carlsbad Terrace, there's a style of duplex there that I think matches a lot of –
 Sort of the thing we hear people are afraid of coming in on a multi-family development right next door to their single-family houses. I don't think that's the type of thing we're looking at here. It might be left under single-family where we restricted the duplexes.
 This is currently in-sea zone, which allows 10 units to an acre, not four like we see in so much of this area. This is already zoned for development, and what we're asking for here is –
 is an up zone to 12 instead of 10. That's a pretty mild increase. I think it's a small enough increase that it could be absorbed. I also don't think it's realistic that it's going to get built out to that density. I mean, we talk about the theoretical maximums a lot, and we know we don't get there.
 So I think what we'll see here is more of a natural transition between what's already there at Weddington and what exists further south. The form that they're asking for here in the multifamily is consistent with our Weddington Illustrated plan. That was the product of neighborhood conversation. And I'm not convinced that we followed it as well as we should.
 But not following it in the past is probably not a good reason to keep not following it now. So I am inclined to support this. I think it's – I'm not deaf to the concerns of increased traffic. This is right on the edge of where I start to think we're getting too far from the mayor's box. But we have invested in that infrastructure. And this is –
 I mean, this is the next big street over from Ruple 46th. So it's kind of in that zone where I think it's accessible to the infrastructure that we are investing in. And so I'm not willing to call this too far out just yet when we are always keeping an eye on affordable housing options. All right, anyone else? Okay.
 I'd also like to hit on one of the points that Kyle made about what is located across Weddington on Carlsbad Terrace. I'm not sure when those were built, but those were built at a time that this really was the outside of town and that we have a very different design standard that we expect buildings to be built to now than those were built to.
 I think that's a good point to say that we've got something old and kind of dated looking across the street that's really fairly dense, and we're going to put something new across the street from it that's going to be a more modern conception, and I think will work very well there. So I'm going to be in favor of this. Thank you. Okay.
 Uh, sure. Thank you. Um, I've really struggled with this one, um, because it is located outside of the mayor's box, which I supported that Ripple road extension, because if we were to agree to utilize that as an urban growth boundary, um, and I'm additionally concerned that this is a greenfield agricultural site.
 However, our planning staff is recommending approval, our planning commission is recommending approval, and it is consistent with our Weddington Complete Neighborhood plan. And I believe that when we release those plans and tell people what we want there, we have an additional burden to actually enable that when they come forward with that type of proposal. Okay.
 And because we already have services running out there, we're not going to be extending water lines or sewer lines. They're already there and we're really just kind of filling in an undeveloped island in an otherwise developed area. I'm inclined to support it. And I do like the inclusion of multi-family units. I think that helps us with our missing middle housing and hopefully we can get enough population density out here to support some transit to make this corridor work a little better. So I will be supporting it.
 Mark? Well, this has been a tough one for me also, but when I'm looking at the expansion from 12 to, well, it'll be 14 additional homes and 14 is not inconsequential to me. I think it matters. When I look at the compatibility and look at the Weddington plan, I think what we currently have does fit into the plan and it is fitting at a level that allows some pretty good development.
 If we increase this, what we're getting is more suburbia and moving it outside the city. It's on the edge. And so at this point, I think maybe down the road I could support it, but at this point when we're trying to get more growth in the box, then I think that we need to encourage growth within the box because that's what we, in my vision, had agreed to do. And this is outside of the box, and it is –
 It's a suburb. We're developing a suburb and that's not that's not something I can support and it was very hard for me to do this Because it seems inconsequential if you think of going to 14 more homes on a seven acre plot But if we do it in this area that you know I can just see this we're looking at rezoning a lot of property out on the edge of town and once we start doing that and
 It's suburbs and we just need to call it what it is. So that's why I'm voting against it. Okay. Yes. Thank you, mayor. Um, I'll be supporting it. And the main reason is, uh, I believe that the multifamily housing is going to offer a lot more affordable housing. So that's really important. We're missing that right now. And, um,
 I'm hopeful that the bond will pass so that we can deal with the infrastructure issues because those are real, and I've been out of Weddington a lot during the traffic. So I'm hopeful that we'll get some public transportation and some more infrastructure. But first, I think we just need more affordable options for people in Fayetteville. Anybody else? Well, what would you all like to do? We're on second reading, I believe.
 Are we on the second reading? We're on the third? No. We're going to the second. Okay. We're going to the third. Are we on the third reading, Simon? No, we're on the second. That's what I thought. Yep, because we started it off going to the second reading. We're on the third. We need to go to the third reading. I know. That's what I said. But we should have started at the third reading. It was read two times last time. But that's okay. Oh. Yeah. That's not what I had on there.
 Yes, please. We'd already done the first and second reading at the last meeting. Well, I have on my thing it says it was left on the first reading. It's on the second. Okay. All righty, then. I'll move to go to the second reading. Still for parliamentary procedure, since we said it was the second reading, let's go to the third and final reading so there can't be any problems. Okay. Just going by what we have here. I think.
 Yes, he did. We have a motion. We have a motion to second the final reading. It's under which police call the vote. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Okay. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6490 for approximately 7.64 acres located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre and NC neighborhood conservation to RMF12 residential multifamily 12 units per acre. So we could be in trouble if we only get two readings, but if we do four we're still okay. All right. Any final comments from council?
 Okay. Senators, please call the roll. Petty? No. Throggan? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Turk? No. Yes. Harris? Yes. Meish? Yes. No. So it passes five to three. Okay. All right. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-20.
 6488 for approximately 0.42 acres located at 825 West Montgomery Street. Morris at 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Now I have this one on the first reading. We would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So move. All right. Mark. I will second. I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. So I'm going to just please call the roll.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, and orders really resolved that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-64 88 For approximately point 42 acres located at 825 West Montgomery Street from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general Yes mayor
 I believe we have some additional comments from the public. As you will recall this item got a little bit complicated. The applicant originally asked for RMF 6 then the Planning Commission recommended neighborhood services general. I have a few maps that illustrate the development standards for those districts.
 just so that everybody can follow what's being discussed. As you recall, here's the entrance to the neighborhood. The Rock House occupies the 15,000 square foot lot that is subject for rezoning. So looking down Montgomery Street to the west, you'll see a row of single family homes built.
 in the late 50s and the 60s mostly, although this particular home was built in the 2000s. So the request for RMF 6, as you recall, the applicant asked, he said they wanted to build two duplexes, not more than two stories in height.
 This RMF 6 certainly would allow that. It would allow also going up to a zero setback, which was one of the issues that the staff had with the request, whether or not that respects the building line or the setback line from the historical homes that were built on Montgomery Street. So Planning Commission held this, I believe, for a month and then they recommended neighborhood
 And the additional use, there are a variety of personal services and retail uses allowed in neighborhood services general, and it would allow up to 8,000 square foot building. Again, it has a zero to 25 foot setback. So that was one of the issues that staff had and why we reluctantly couldn't support it.
 So I guess I'm guilty of complicating the issue a little bit more. I said if you really wanted to use a more precise tool, you could use the RSF 8 district,
 with a condition I used from that, which could be used to make sure it's only two stories and has the setbacks that the rest of the structures in the neighborhood have. The applicant said they wanted to either build a one-two family building, and they were looking at whether they could preserve the stone house. This option shows what you could do preserving the stone house and possibly doing an ADU. These are just schematics, something that you could do.
 Or you could do two-story duplexes, as the applicant said they wanted to do. The downside, of course, is it would take another trip back to the Planning Commission. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Interesting. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Last time we were here,
 I said a few things, but one of the things I said was that I was probably comfortable with the rezoning as proposed even though I thought there were better options available to the applicant given some of the other statements that had been made. There was a member of the public that came and talked about the,
 nature of the demand for commercial services in that area town Especially being anchored to the industrial uses into the nearby detention facility operated by the county and that carried a bit of water with me and So, you know, I wanted to address what I'd said. I don't think I would support today neighborhood services general for those reasons primarily proximity and timing of the market and
 Given the the relative commercial demand for particular services down there However, I do think I would have supported. What was the original? request with with the multifamily district The the light multifamily district as I might call it since the intensity seemed really really low the setback issue I Don't really consider to be much of an issue. I
 Certainly there are people who might be concerned about that in any neighborhood, but I think in particular with this parcel that's before us, I could imagine that a more forward building actually having some benefits in shielding other residences from the noise and light pollution associated with South School Avenue, which I imagine is rather pronounced offensive.
 So in any case, I think that's where I'm at. I still am reluctant to deny this issue on the basis that there should be conditions of approval. I'm sensitive to the issue of height disparities and setback disparities. And I said what I think about the setbacks of this site. But in general, I don't see that three-story buildings are
 offensive or relevant to anything to do with health, safety, and well-being of the residents or public welfare. I think that's a subjective preference more than it is anything else.
 So, you know, that's all to say, you know, I appreciate that there might be another path forward and maybe that's what the applicant would prefer. If the applicant were here tonight and they said they're ready to do the conditional use permit, I'll just acquiesce, you know, to whatever gets said.
 I think overall I would have preferred that this stayed RMF6. And I think I said last time that a smart developer would memorialize what they'd already put in their letter with a bill of assurance or something similar. Is the applicant here? Okay. I'll just check. Sonja. Yes. I want to thank Gardner for those better –
 illustrations of that's definitely helped me a lot and I think it'll help the neighbors a lot as well to have that visual um we were able to connect and I was able to ask lots of questions um so that was great those those visuals are excellent um and I think they completely illustrate the issues that I heard from the neighbors of height and setback
 The other issue that I did mention is the Stone House as being kind of a historical home. To me it looks like it's probably the first home that was on that property and then all the others came after because it looks like the oldest. And so I think it really sets the character and the tone of the neighborhood. And I do think it's worth the wait to do this right and not be in a rush.
 And so I talked to one resident who said they were speaking on behalf of the person who'd lived there for 80 years in this neighborhood So I think it's well worth the wait I don't want to repeat what Matthew said that I'm completely in line with that As far as most arguments and because of that I think that this needs to be looked at again by the developer to see if there's a better better way and I
 At this point, I'm reluctant to support this without conditions or a bill of assurance. Okay. I agree as well. I do have one question. You mentioned the kind of second trip to Planning Commission. If we were to deny this, can they take that trip, or is that? They can't ask for the identical application. Okay.
 But what I was actually referencing if they accepted the RSF aid they could then go to the Planning Commission with conditional use permit which would be also a version of what a bill of assurance might accomplish. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. But we would have to approve something different than what they currently have.
 i actually think the city council has a lot of discretion in this particular case you can approve deny or you can refer back to the planning commission if you think that they need to look at it again give developer another chance uh to re-evaluate from what you all have said here it's rare we don't do that very often but we have done it in the past and our rules do allow it to you to refer it back to the planning commission if that's your
 Desire just so all the information is on the table. I did have a conversation with the applicant who asked for Bill of Assurance, which I sent to them And we did discuss that it would be heard to that tonight, so
 I don't know, but we haven't seen the bill of assurance. We haven't seen it Thank You Garner, can you scroll through the the options again, please? I Would just like to say that, you know, I would lean towards the RMF six or the
 NS neighborhood services Normally I would support some sort of mixed-use Project this close to South School Avenue But because this property doesn't actually front on South School Avenue and actually comes through that access road I don't believe that commercial uses are appropriate this time but I would like to see the applicant pursue the idea of multi-family housing just to provide some diversity of housing type in this area and
 So I do hope we can hold this on the second reading and give the applicant time to reconsider. And the applicant's not here tonight? I asked for the applicant. Okay, so now we'll take some public comment. But it'll probably be held on the second reading tonight, I believe. Yes, Commissioner.
 Same rules apply five minute time limit unless the council gives you more time or ask you questions keep the comments to myself and stay on topic and Name your address My name is James Oliver and I live in that house right next to that and I had a few concerns about back to the parking, you know and
 the property value, will it affect the property value of this neighborhood? And drainage is another thing that I'm concerned about. People don't want water running through their lawns and stuff, it's just stuff that I was concerned about and thought I'd bring it up and see if somebody,
 A single dwelling would be great there. But I don't know. I don't think the multi-buildings, you know, I don't know, I don't think that would go over very good. That's about all I have. Okay. Who else would like to address this? My name is Tony Wing. I live on Greenwood Street right next in this neighborhood. My personal preference is this be a single-family dwelling in this
 Just as the neighbor has talked about, there is an issue with drainage in that area. It catches a lot of water a lot of times, and if you hard service and build a lot, put a lot in there, it will affect that. And also, my preference for living in the neighborhood with grandkids in that neighborhood, I prefer stable, single-family housing that goes along with the...
 The neighborhood all the homes in there are single-family More permanent families that come in there is an issue with you know sitting around the corner if you put in multi-family dwellings tall family close to the roads There's a lot of school buses I think fable makes four buses come through that neighborhood and you got found people leaving and
 that's a sharp corner you need access you need to be able to see around the corner well it's not a real wide street i would personally like to see the developer put in a new home single family dwelling and improve the neighborhood that way thank you all right thank you who else would like to address us on this my name is theresa youngblood and i live at 40 west greenwood street
 I want to begin by telling you a story that features Terry Heron, the older man whom my husband and I bought our house from three and a half years ago. He raised his two boys in that house and told us that the neighborhood was still his grandkids' favorite place in the world to be. He told me the names of several neighbors, of at least half a dozen neighbors, especially the ones whose yards were most often used for accessing the creek where the kids like to play.
 And then he said something interesting. We raised two generations of kids here and they all turned out pretty good. We haven't lost one yet. What a gift. A neighborhood willing and able, by virtue of luck and layout, to be the village that all parents hope their children are lucky to be raised up within.
 This is the kind of social cohesion that both studies and experience tells us has a major impact on children's well-being and social outcomes. That's my neighborhood and that's what's compelling me to come speak with you today. And something I realized that I didn't mention when I was here two weeks ago is cars, which my neighbor Mr. Wing just referred to. So after the last meeting I did some poking around in the city zones and codes as well as what Commissioner Petty mentioned smart city development.
 I found out that neighborhood entrances are actually really important. And I found out that if our neighborhood were being built today and we had our single entrance there, the developer would only be allowed to put 30 lots in our whole neighborhood. Our neighborhood already has 34. And our entrance is already very difficult to maneuver since it's literally at the end of the exit ramp off of the Fulbright Expressway where it joins southbound traffic on 71.
 It's a 180 degree turn that you have to make at five miles per hour as cars are speeding past at 50 miles an hour coming off of the bypass. I'm not even going to tell you what it's like when you're trying to come and go as one of our six school buses is coming or going. We have 60 some cars in our neighborhood and there are three early teens. So envision at least three more drivers in the next five years.
 All this is to say that neither in theory nor in practice is our neighborhood a good candidate for aggressively increased density. Again, if it were being built today, we would already be slightly over capacity for a normal single entrance, and our wonky hairpin turn is anything but normal. If you deny this rezoning request, the developer can still build a nice duplex, doubling the density of that particular lot and adding maybe four more cars.
 In fact, I'd invite you to project out with me 15 or 20 years. The RSF zoning, which is what we have right now, would still allow this lot and each of our lots to become a duplex or add another housing unit, a mother-in-law cottage or maybe a studio apartment. To me, this is the kind of smart infill that the 2030 plan and smart city development calls for, the kind of development that enhances community rather than looms over it or crowds
 Please deny this rezoning request and allow our neighborhood to be your partner in smart development rather than a casualty of it. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, there's a question. Ms. Youngblood, thank you. Thank you for...
 maybe the most thorough analysis of kind of the situation on the ground right there since we've now talked about a couple of other options besides just the nsg proposal that's that's on the agenda what what are your thoughts on some of the the other diagrams that you've seen and how that would impact the
 Neighborhood interests. Do you have any preferences that that you would favor over others? I do and I think you can really tell Maybe we can get the blueprint up there again Well the last of the layouts that mr. Stolls provided that I
 Even just looking at it from the bird's eye view really matches the neighborhood still allows for increased density It will allow more visibility around that turn So in my mind again seeing this fresh not really having any time to reflect on it or talk with my neighbors But seeing it fresh that seems much more compatible with what we have going on. So
 However, the neighbors in both of those houses that are immediately adjacent to it are here tonight. So I want to make sure that they have a chance to speak with what is going to be essentially, you know, their backyard. Thank you. Thank you. It sounds like we're probably not going to decide tonight, but I think it would be productive next time if we've –
 If we've all had a chance to kind of look at the variations instead of just the one that's in front of us that I don't think anybody's super enthusiastic about. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody keep in mind it's probably going to be held for two weeks. You can speak tonight and then again two weeks if you want to. But anyway, who else would like to address us on this?
 Hi, my name is Linda Baker. I'm also a homeowner in the neighborhood, one of the lucky 34. And I say that because I'm here asking you guys to consider me. Like, I bought a home in that neighborhood. I'm 29 years old. I am so in line with appropriate infill and affordable housing like you don't believe.
 But I don't feel especially like the developer hasn't reached out or talked to us or had any kind of dialogue with 34 houses in the neighborhood so that we could talk about it. I would like to see a house built there that someone could buy. I would even support two single family homes there that someone could buy. Wouldn't that be amazing? Another owner occupied person in the neighborhood.
 I feel so blessed to be there, and one of the reasons why I put an offer on the house an hour after I saw it the same day and waited on the realtors because I saw how special that neighborhood was with a creek running through it, with a single...
 hairpin ingress egress at the end southernmost end of Fayetteville, you know in 20 years, you know 30 years Maybe that we're gonna be out there on the edges and needing Multifamily housing but there's always gonna be the opportunity to rezone it as that right now It's single-family like Teresa said my next-door neighbor and
 And you can double the income. Like, that, in that area, should be pretty attractive, especially if there is a way to start a shop and sell those homes. Because it's really important that people be able to buy. And I don't know if you've set Zillow to property buying under $125,000 in Fayetteville lately, but you will not be getting a lot of hits. So...
 I'm just here saying, hey, give other people like me an opportunity because I don't know that I'd be able to buy even now or in five years. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello. My name is Robert Davis, and I live right next to Jim, the co-adjacent house. I just simply want to second what Teresa had said, and I'm very in favor of preserving the neighborhood as is.
 And I first fell in love with this neighborhood probably about three years ago. And as soon as I saw a property come available, I jumped on it that same day. And I was the owner of the house 30 days later. So I love this neighborhood as it is, and I would like to see it stay that way. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us tonight? Thank you.
 Okay, I'm bringing back to the council. I assume we're probably gonna leave this on the second reading to see what kind of comes up from here Two weeks Okay Leave it here and look at it again in two weeks. All right number three. I
 an ordinance to amend 161.20 district arnold residential office 161.21 district c1 neighborhood commercial 161.23 district c2 thoroughfare commercial 161.25 district c3 central commercial and 166.24 non-residential design standards of the federal unified development code to provide a form-based development option
 for districts RO, C1, C2, and C3. I have that this was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Mark. I move that we go to the second reading. Sloan. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ms. Harris. Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance to amend section 161.20 district RO residential office section 161.21 district C1 neighborhood commercial section 161.23 district C2 thoroughfare commercial section 161.25 a district C3 central commercial and section 166.24
 non-residential design standards of the Fable United Unified Development Code to provide for a form-based development option for districts RO, C1, C2 and C3.
 And before you begin discussing, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about what I said at the agenda session. First, I want to thank the Planning Commission for bringing this forward. I think that this is a very good option that they are providing developers, and I think it will be something that will probably be used a lot. However, I did notice when we got into the applicability portion of this,
 It's for all non-residential designs, and of course that hit me because there are certain non-residential designs that we really don't have the authority to control, not for aesthetic purposes anyway. The first I want to talk about is churches. Religious institutions enjoy protections of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution that ordinary residential, commercial, and office developments do not.
 Thus, we need to be a little bit more careful because we do not want to infringe on the free exercise rights that are granted to the First Amendment to religious institutions.
 the united states supreme court in 2017 was deciding a case on religious first amendment rights and they said it is too late in the day to doubt that liberties of religion and expression may be infringed by the denial of or placing conditions upon a benefit or privilege and of course when we grant a building permit
 or development permit, well that's granting a privilege, and so we can't place restrictions that would impede the First Amendment when we do that. They go on to say that the Free Exercise Clause protects against indirect coercion or penalties on the free exercise of religion and not just outright prohibitions.
 A later case, I do want to say our Unified Development Code certainly and clearly was enacted with no animus toward religious institutions and seeks to treat all development applications equally and fairly.
 However, such facial neutrality may not always save the city from litigation if an applicant believes that the use of portions of the UDC to force undesired or undesirable design of facilities have discriminatory effect upon their religious expressive rights. And a 2011 Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals case said, quote, for a religious institution, having a place of worship is at the very core of the free exercise of religion.
 Churches and synagogues cannot function without a fiscal space adequate to their needs and consistent with their theological requirements. The right to build, buy, or rent such a place is an indispensable adjunct of the core First Amendment right to assemble for religious purposes."
 This issue has come up before and every time it has, that I've been aware of it, I have said that when it comes to aesthetic conditions, we cannot place those upon religious institutions. And the fact is, you can look at several churches in town and just looking at it, you know that it is a Christian church. And therefore, the building is an expression of the people inside, the congregation's religious faith,
 and that's why we really have to shy away from trying to place any kind of restrictions on the aesthetics. That doesn't mean that we can't have reasonable restrictions on the structural soundness, electricity, plumbing, all of that kind of stuff we certainly can do, but the aesthetic considerations which these design standards are designed for are not something we can do.
 The other part, so I appreciate that this was brought to my attention by the planning department, the planning commission, and so that's why I have designed a proposed change
 to some they have some exceptions in here already but I want to add to those exceptions for the minimum not in the non-residential design standards the following words and I've given that to you tonight I would add religious institutional buildings public school buildings and buildings owned by federal state or county governments
 And the reason for the schools is that there's a state statute that requires that every public school that's going to be built in the state of Arkansas must be approved in its design by a state agency. And so when the Fayetteville High School was wanting to be built, they had to send it down to the state committee, and the state committee approved it.
 Obviously the state is one level above us and so I don't think it's probably proper for us to say well the State Committee Might have approved it But we don't and so therefore I think the for the again only the aesthetics part of our code Is something that we really can't apply to the public schools the other things I said the federal state county governments City is hate to tell you this as City Council worth a low rung of the power when it comes to government power and
 uh we can't impose our will upon the federal government state government and even though the county government is pretty much i think are equal we still i would not recommend that we attempt to impose any ordinances upon the county government either so i would hope that we would make the amendments that i have requested and i'll certainly be willing and happy to answer any questions you might have okay matthew
 Yes, thank you mayor. And thank you Kit for noticing this and trying to take a lead on it. I appreciate that we're having the discussion, but I'm skeptical that this is the right amendment to make. And Kit, maybe you can convince me. First, you know, I think we've made a mistake in thinking that the non-residential design standards are merely about aesthetics.
 I look at the purpose section which is here on this handout and it does talk about aesthetics but it also talks about these regulations being necessary to produce a high quality development that responds to the needs of pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicular traffic. And that's the kind of statement that you might write to mean about whatever you wanted to later.
 But to me it leaves the door open that there might be other reasons for some of these standards. And some of the things that come to mind are, you know, one of the reasons that we require windows to be of a certain size or to make up a certain percentage of the front of the street is for safety so that you can see into the building at night and so that occupants of the building can see out onto the street to observe.
 activities that might be happening out there or even call the police in the event of witnessing a crime. And I think that's just one example that shows some of these standards are not
 merely about aesthetics. It's important that entrances be located facing the street instead of away from the street for good reasons that are well studied and documented for several decades in the planning sector. And those reasons go to safety.
 and go to public welfare and are not merely about aesthetics. Now I'll be the first to admit that there are standards in the section for non-residential design standards that are a majority aesthetic or even aesthetic in their totality, but I don't think that's the case for the entire section.
 Then for each of these in part, I might take these in reverse order. With respect to other government, I think philosophically we should treat property owners equally, regardless of who they are. If we're talking about other public entities, we only have to look to the Washington County Courthouse Annex.
 as an example of a building which does not comply with our current non-residential design standards and does so in a way that makes College Avenue and its side streets less safe than they would be if they did comply with the standards that we have today.
 It's easy to see when you look at that building. It's got a lot of glass in it, but you can't see anything inside of that building. And it has no relationship whatsoever with College Avenue, even though we've had plans and designs on College Avenue for decades now. There's no entrance that is used. The primary entrance for the annex building is not face college. In fact, it faces the parking lot, which is something that our non-residential design standards prevent.
 from happening that require primary entrances to face the primary street. In any case, that's just one example. We can look at the federal courthouse building and there's a laundry list of things that it does not do, that it could do, there are missed opportunities that would make all four of its adjacent streets safer. Not just aesthetically more pleasing or more economically productive, but safer as well.
 With respect to school facilities,
 I think these issues apply to schools as much as they do any other government facility. And I'm not certain why we would exempt them just because there is approval required from another agency. And maybe this is where you can convince me, but we have other proposals that come forward that require joint approval with other jurisdictions already.
 such as in our planning area. And to me this seems somewhat similar. I am curious if we could have a process where they come to us for our approvals and then they go to the state or something in parallel. Also when I look at the state approval system, I understand that they're reviewing both for site
 the site program and how the buildings are arranged on the site, but also the internal use of the structure, which it seems to me they're more concerned with than we are. We don't do a lot of review about the internals of a structure for how the educational system might be affected, like the state intends to do. At the least, I wonder if they could come to us first before they went on to the state. Lastly, on churches.
 You said something that caught my attention. You mentioned undesirable regulations and that we might be open to litigation if a religious applicant felt that the regulations were undesirable and concluded that they impinged on their religious freedom. But I think those are two different standards, and there's actually quite a bit of separation between those two things. So, for example, today...
 Other than our sign ordinance, I don't think we have anything that would prevent particular religious ornamentation on a building. I think our sign ordinance might restrict the size of that kind of ornamentation or symbology, but we don't have anything else that would affect that. These design standards talk about windows and entrances and materials, and I wouldn't
 I worry that a blanket exemption for churches would open the door to claims of religious exemption that might be a step too far or might even be disingenuous.
 because they wouldn't have to make a claim whatsoever. What would keep me from going to a neighborhood and trying to build the most inexpensive worship building I could and then claiming that I needed to build with cheap materials because I was a religious institution? We would have nothing on the books that would insist on even a minimum standard beyond the building codes themselves
 I would much rather see religious applicants who have a legitimate problem with the design standards come and seek out an exemption in a hearing, which I think we would be quick to grant for any legitimate purpose.
 Anyway, those are my thoughts. I think the most important thing that I had to say was there is a lot of health, safety and welfare in the design standards. It's not just about aesthetics. And I worry that this exemption goes too far with respect to those standards particularly. Okay. Who else would like to weigh in on that?
 Okay. Well, Mr. Mayor, I could probably respond a little bit. I don't want to get into a full-grown debate here with City Council Member Petty. The four pages of design standards do include many things, and, for example, they require that building facades must have changes in plane with a depth of at least 24 inches either horizontally or vertically at intervals not less than 10 feet nor more than 40 feet,
 Obviously, nothing but aesthetics there. Changes in color, texture, and material, either horizontally or vertically, at intervals not less than 10 feet and not more than 40 feet. That's 100% aesthetics. The fenestration pattern should encourage design, reinforce rhythm, and create shadows. The following shall be met to satisfy the fenestration requirements for a principal façade.
 And one of them is, primary entrance for buildings located in the Build 2 zone shall face the public street. The primary entrance shall be well defined with access drives, sidewalks, and other major areas. A building entrance shall occur at a minimum of every 100 feet of a building facade length that is within the Build 2 zone. So if the building is over 100 feet, you've got to have two primary entrances facing the street.
 And of course, we're talking about, when you're talking about most churches, there's a fairly large auditorium usually where people congregate. And normally, you don't have a couple different, or the church may not want a couple different entrances from the street right into the chapel or the meeting place. Yes?
 Glazing, which is glass, it says in order to create a proportion of solids to voids and pedestrian interest in the following standards shall apply. These are for proportion of solids to voids and pedestrian interest. A building for salt located within the build-to zone shall be glazed no less than 50% of the first or ground floor at the pedestrian level between 2 and 12 feet above the sidewalks.
 and then glazing above that must be less than 80%. That looks to me like it's aesthetics. And of course there's lots of other things. A massive building exceeding 100 feet in length shall be delineated and zoomed into no more than 40 foot wide segments, utilizes changes in height and depth of a wall plane of no less than 24 inches. These are all good standards and they're well to be applied to commercial and office buildings
 but these are aesthetic standards that I fear are very inapplicable for churches and we should not attempt to apply them in churches. It also says no less than 70% of the building length shall be broken into a minimum of two horizontal shifts in material texture and or wall plane to provide distinction between segments. The middle segment shall be of greater heights than the bottom and top segments.
 So the vast majority of these design standards are aesthetics. They were designed to be aesthetics. That's what the purpose primarily says of interest to pedestrians, but that again is aesthetics.
 And when you talk about you would like to treat all landowners the same, well, not all landowners are the same. The federal government doesn't have to comply with our ordinances. The state government doesn't have to comply with our ordinances. That's why our noise ordinance can't be applied to the university. We can't tell them to not fire off cannons, to not have their big giant screens that we don't allow in other places.
 That's because we don't control the state. They're a higher government level than us and if they're the property owners, we can't even force them to go through our development process.
 So, you know, it might be better if everybody was treated equal, but that's just not the way the law is. The law is the federal government is here, state government is here, the county government and city government is here. And they can control us. We can't control them. So I still think the amendment is a proper thing to do, and it would be improper for us to try to force our will on the superior governments or on the schools. Okay.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I think I've probably been the most vocal critic on the council of our design standards in the last, at least in my last term. And I've pushed planning staff and the chief of staff to put revisions to the standards on the legislative agenda for at least the last two years, if not a little bit longer.
 And I think a lot of people were surprised when I started making that push because I'd been such a vocal defender of Fayetteville codes since I was first elected. So, you know, I say that to say it's certainly the case that some of the thresholds in the design standards are too high, need to be reduced, and in some cases, perhaps even eliminated. However, I will say
 These standards, while they bear a closer look in terms of what they are requiring, they also bear a closer look and a more open mind in terms of what their true impact actually is. Standards that seem like they are only aesthetic may have more purpose to them than it looks like on their face. There is real research, quantitative, peer-reviewed research that has been repeated
 and shown to be true in multiple countries, in multiple states, all across the globe, that shows when streets have particular rhythms, that they are occupied by more people, and that crime is lower, economic activity is higher, things that go beyond aesthetics. And it is possible that some of these standards can go to
 both sides of that question. It's not true that our standards are only binary. They are not only aesthetically oriented or only oriented to health, safety, and welfare. I think there's a spectrum there.
 For instance, on streets that have entrances roughly every 50 feet, sales are higher, more people occupy the street, more people visit the street, more people hang out in the street. Not just pedestrians, but visitors of all types. There are real reasons for that. So, I think that it's important for us to keep an open mind that standards that seem aesthetic on their face may have broader purposes.
 You may have me convinced that we shouldn't try to regulate the federal or the state government, or maybe even the county government, but at least I think there's a what's good for the goose principle with respect to local government and our own design standards. But I don't want to nitpick across all of these.
 Some of these have other purposes. And it may be the case that, for example, a religious applicant may not want to do, in the example that was cited, multiple entrances on the street. But that is not a high enough standard for a religious exemption. It's just not. It has to impact their ability to worship faithfully. That is something else.
 And if an architect walks in with a church for a client and says, the only way I can do this project is to put a blank wall next to the street, I think it's our job to question that. And we must have something on the books to be at the table in the first place. Okay. Kyle. Thank you, Mayor. I share a lot of Councilmember Petty's skepticism on this. When...
 I appreciate you reminding us not to minimize the value of aesthetics because comfort, walkability of a street is a safety issue. Building, especially when our building structures often outlast their use. And I think I mentioned this last week. We've got religious institutions using strip malls that were formerly built for commercial use. We've got churches that have vacated those spaces. And they...
 now need to be able to function on the street as any commercial space. We have churches that have vacated their worship centers and turned them into condos. Buildings just last longer than uses. And sometimes the uses move around and last longer than the building. But I think that it's important that we separate those two concerns.
 So I guess I've got a question about the application of, I'm gonna use the multiple entrances as an example. Kit, if a group had a legitimate, or wanted to claim a faith-based reason to why they couldn't have front entrances, their faith required entering through the back of the building, would that give them grounds to apply for a variance due to hardship?
 I'm not really sure. I think that the problem is that once you say that you can apply standards that their purpose says to produce a visually interesting and high quality development that responds to the needs of pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicular traffic,
 when the facility is supposed to respond to the congregation inside and their religious values. And they shouldn't have to come here in front of the city council or the planning commission and say, my religious values means we need to have a church that looks like this. We have to explain our religious values for us, and then you can tell us whether you believe that's right or not. I think government and church need to stay apart. Thank you.
 I think the wall of separation between government and religion is very vital for our country and is under attack not only for us placing some conditions on how a church would be built,
 but also by some other people trying to impose religion into the government. And I think that's dangerous on both sides and that we need to have proper respect for each other. And that's why I say we should simply not apply these standards to religious institutions and not make them come up and explain themselves about why they want to build the church they want to build.
 I can appreciate that distinction, but I think that may be a bigger task than we're going to be able to tackle with design standards I guess one other equity question and I'm going to be quiet as I read it the exemption applies to our form-based zones
 or form-based development in our conventional zones, but not to conventional development in a conventional zone that goes through the normal planning commission process. Am I missing that? No, you're not missing anything. There are no design standards for churches within except for right here. And I think it just fell in by mistake, and I should have seen it coming before, and I didn't.
 Commercial design standards, there was talk about that years ago and it was decided no. I did a very much more substantial memo at that point in time, cited many more cases, it was seven or eight pages, to show that we cannot do that, that that is beyond our power to do and so it was not done. And so there's not any other design standards that I'm aware of in our code that would apply aesthetic conditions to religious institutional buildings.
 if there are i need to know about it because in my as city attorney i want them removed so so these these design standards we're talking about do not apply to conventional development in a conventional zone currently there is that these design standards here
 Yeah, these are non-residential design standards. Everything that's not a residential building, these standards apply to. And so I didn't catch it at first, but when I thought about it, I thought, well, that means it applies to all these government buildings, all of the churches, all of the schools. And I said, that's not right. We can't do that. And that's why I brought it back to you.
 Other standards, I don't believe, and Garner, I'll ask you, I don't believe there's any other standards that are aesthetic standards that apply to churches in our code. No, it's the non-residential design standards, but it is broader than just the issue that the Planning Commission brought to the table. There are other districts where actually...
 uh require form-based conformance these were the district where form-based is an option they can choose to go farm-based the ones the planning commission brought forward roc1 c2 c3 they can choose to go form-based or they can choose conventional development so in those districts the churches could choose conventional development and they wouldn't be subject to the non-residential design centers but if they do choose
 The farm base, meaning bringing the building up to the street, then they would be subject to it unless the exemption that you speak to is made. It's broader than just those four districts, this issue is. But you've exempted them from all the standards also, the way I'm reading the amendment.
 it would exempt the churches from it. Well, basically the amendment is talking about, it says these design standards shall apply, and then it says with the exception of these districts...
 located within a downtown master plan. Yes. Boundary religious institution buildings, public school buildings, and buildings owned by the federal, state, and county government. So this is referring only to what you're talking about here, the non-residential design standards. But churches are also allowed in the community services. I'm sorry, what? Churches are allowed in the community services district, the neighborhood services district. Right. And what kind of design standards are applied there? These...
 commercial design standards that not if there is non-residential design standards are also out okay well if that is true then that needs to be changed also because we really cannot apply aesthetic standards we can apply some standards like in form-based zones where where the building must be located and stuff like that that can be applied but not the construction of the building
 It's my understanding that you have generally already done that. My point wasn't that you haven't written it correctly. My point was that it applies broader than just these four districts that the Planning Commission is wishing to amend to create a shortcut. So you're saying – I'm sorry. When I first became city attorney in 2001, my first Planning Commission meeting I think I went to,
 commercial design standards were being applied to a church and i sat here and i had been on the city council when we enacted the commercial design standards and my belief was that's for commercial buildings not churches but i didn't say anything that night it got approved but i researched that and then i went to den planter tim conklin and i said these cannot be applied to religious institutions and so they were not again and when this issue came up again about eight or nine years later
 That's when I wrote a long memo saying you can't do that and you can't do it to schools either. So my understanding has been that they've not been, these commercial, these sorts of design standards that are aesthetic standards have not been applied to religious institution buildings. That doesn't mean that if they're in a foreign-based zone they don't have to have their building up to the street
 But that's about as far as it can go, parking in the rear, but you can't say, and your building is going to look like this. That's where I think we've gone too far when we say what the building is going to look like. I understand that point. I believe they are. I may be mistaken. I just had a conversation with the planning director this afternoon, and we think that you have made a broader amendment with your argument. I think it's appropriate. I'm not arguing against it.
 I think it applies to all the non-residential design standards in all the districts because this is a general amendment regarding the applicability. Yes, it is my opinion that we can't apply these to churches no matter where they might be found in the Unified Development Code. So, Garner, your office would be the interpreters of the UDC. And without the amendment...
 Did I hear you correctly saying that there is a path for a church to go through a development approval that does not impose these design standards on them? In these four districts that the Planning Commission initiated, yes. Okay. They can just do a conventional development. They have to meet the setbacks. They can't bring the building up to the street. Okay. Have we ever had...
 You've expressed some concerns that you've raised. Have we ever had a church or a religious institution, I guess, of any kind, or a school that ran into these as a problem that they thought were unfairly imposed? Like I said, I think the only memory I have of any church ever going through a design standard was that first meeting I had with the Planning Commission, and they went through it and they approved it.
 But just because somebody doesn't know their rights doesn't mean we should not honor the constitutional rights that they do have. We all took the oath to follow the Constitution, and I think that means you follow it even if you don't get called on it. And so that's why, especially in our code, I want our code to be clear that we are going to honor those rights.
 Can appreciate that I just a concern that we're looking for a problem that we just don't have On the school issue since that did come up one more time the the Arkansas school facilities manual is real clear that their focus is ensuring equitable Space for delivery of educational activities that is their focus when they review school designs And it's fair to
 to note that most of the schools they review for the state are in rural settings. Their design concerns are not anywhere near the same as our design concerns in an exterior place setting. So I think that on the topic of school buildings, it is absolutely appropriate for them to meet both sets of design standards, one for their academic space and providing the services
 and I'm in an awkwardly shaped classroom every day with no windows and not enough room for 30 teenage bodies, I appreciate those standards from the school facilities manual. But I think that we also don't want a country prefab metal building showing up in a stable neighborhood. So I think that's appropriate from an exterior perspective. So, yeah.
 That's going to make it real hard for me to support this amendment. We haven't got time yet. Sarah. Thank you. I have an issue just with the exemption of religious institutional buildings. I think it's important that we stop using the word churches, because we have a lot more religious institutions in this community than just churches.
 But, you know, seeing the turnover rate at some of our religious institutions in the community, and it just seems like it would be really convenient to claim this religious exemption, construct a building, and then move your religious institution to somewhere else, and then re-what do you call it?
 repurpose the building to be something else whether that's apartments or commercial spaces but ultimately i think this is a really complicated issue much more complicated than we should be handling in this setting and i would like to refer this to ordinance review to take a close look at this and make sure we're getting it right i will second it that's what i my name's up here for that reason so there you go i really agree with you this is a lot more complex
 I guess it's not that motion. No. It doesn't have to be a motion. I think whoever's in charge of the ordinance review can take it. Is that correct, Kit? I'm sorry, what? How do we get it to? Yeah, we can just, if the chair of the ordinance review, they can just take it, right, and look at it. Oh, yeah, you can. If you want to table it, and then it's up to the chair of the ordinance review to schedule a meeting if you want to do that and discuss it in more detail. We don't have an ordinance review chair.
 Well, I'll move that we table this, and since the ordinance review has not met yet to elect a chair, just as a member of the committee, I'll accept that we're going to take it. Yeah, who's on that committee anyway? Ah, there we go. There, now then. And they will elect a chair, Mayor, at their first meeting. They haven't had a reason to meet at this point. So you can say as a group you'll be willing to meet on this, correct? Yes.
 We'll get a hold of you, Sandra and I, and try to get a good time when you all can be there, and then you can have your meeting in the lecture chair. Thank you.
 mayor do want to add one other comment and this discussion is about non-residential design standards but we recently went through a discussion at the state level about residential design standards and as a person who's been there listening to this debate one of the things i would say to you is a question that was asked over and over and over is why do cities have these aesthetic design requirements so for instance p ridge
 Had a certain paint color requirement in their code when it was given as an example so
 I think it's important when we start looking at our code that we really do have to spend time not only on our Residential side because of this new law But we need to do it here in case the law ever is expanded where it goes beyond where it has started to really articulate and separate these items for which items our standards do have a
 other items that are not just aesthetic, like safety concerns for the street and things of that nature. So it is a task that is on a list, and Matthew continues to talk with us about this. What I will say to you is we've had a tremendous work plan and many master plans going on in planning, but this is a task related to current state legislation that is going to have to be looked at
 already on the residential side. Those things are grandfathered in, but we should be able to answer a question from a state legislature about why we have such a requirement, what it gains us as a community when we have a pure aesthetic requirement, and which ones aren't really aesthetic that are framed in that, that are there for another reason. And that's a task that I think the council, from a policy perspective, also has to give direction on, not only in the residential side, but the non-residential side.
 Okay. Sorry. I guess I have a question. Once, let's say the, you know, I understand Matt's concern and Sarah's concern about we can claim religious institution, but once those groups come forward and say they want to propose something to build, that will still have to go through planning and it will still have to come to us, or are we just saying they can just do whatever they want? That's...
 I mean, can it have a minimum standard of, like you said, it has to have plumbing, it has to have windows. Well, yeah, certainly all of the standard things making the building structurally sound must be there. It must have plumbing, heating, air conditioning, lights. Right.
 all that other stuff is certainly required and can be required as the case actually talked about. Right, so those things what I'm wanting to say is those are things that are core and very important and I believe, I appreciate that Kit is bringing this to us because I think what he's saying for us that we need to listen to is legal counsel that we could put ourselves in a bad position if we don't
 go ahead and think about putting this in there and he's coming at it from a protection standpoint and that's what I see as well so I think we need to be proactive and not think about that we need to put a standard on a religious institution because it is an amendment First Amendment situation but I'm looking forward for it to go to committee thank you just to throw one more grenade
 uh... you know if our if our concern is the applicability of standards that aren't aesthetic we need to reconsider all of our setbacks and minimum lot widths don't we it's really the building codes the international fire code building code and commercial and residential code that have uh... research behind them that say how much buildings need to be separated by to prevent loss of life or loss of property our own zoning standards for minimum lot width minimum lot size
 front yard side yard and rear yard setbacks are things that we just invented and copied and pasted from other communities because they were doing them it has nothing to do with health safety and welfare it only has to do with aesthetics and that's the part of this of our unify development code that we're arguing must apply okay well okay but before that we have to take some public on this
 So we've said all that to say now we're going to take some public comment everybody gets five minutes time limit one Turn at the microphone keep your comments to me Stay on topic. I don't know how you get off of this Please your name and address and here we go Peter Thomas and Ward three I understand you're going to table this but five minutes and they're hard to come by so I
 I spoke last week, and I just want to go a little beyond that. My position is that taking form-based zoning citywide should be the subject of a referendum for notice to the people. I imagine the city's position would be, and I don't want to speak for Mr. Williams, but in City Plan 2030, the city said...
 that it was going to discourage suburban sprawl. And that, to some extent, constitutes notice that the city doesn't like suburbs. But in my mind, that would have meant you don't want to take farms and turn them into any more Levittowns on the outskirts of Fayetteville. And that's fine.
 But what I see going on here is an outright assault on suburban living, single family living. And I'm accumulating examples because I think this is going to turn into a political war.
 You just had to. I mean, almost every session of the city council, there's another neighborhood where there's an attempt by the city to down zone RSF4 to something more dense. And every time the neighbors show up and every time the neighbors say, we live here, we love our neighborhood, please don't do this. And time and time and time again, the city dies.
 goes against the RSF4 and goes against a suburban lifestyle and tries to turn this place into Brooklyn or Calcutta. And we resent it. At page 37 of the Energy Action Plan, the city admits that 50% of the residents live in single-family dwellings. We like that. I have been an adult for 50 years.
 And of that, I've lived about 32 years in apartments, including eight years in a 600-square-foot efficiency.
 And about 20 years I've lived in houses, including the last five here. And I prefer a single family home. I don't have to smell what everybody else is eating for dinner. I don't have to listen to their arguments of my neighbors. And I don't have to listen to the headboard banging against the wall on nights when they're not arguing. I like my privacy. And many people do. But there is an assault...
 by these people who have corrupted form-based code, which is supposed to be an urban code, and are now attacking suburban neighborhoods. There's a great quote, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright has just written a book, and she quotes fascist dictator Benito Mussolini as saying, quote, if you consolidate power by plucking a chicken one feather at a time, people don't notice.
 But I am noticing, and that's what's going on here. I've got two examples. I'll only have time for one now. This one we were familiar with. It happened up in my neighborhood. It was those lots catty-cornered from the botanical garden. There was a fight two years ago. They had been zoned RO to protect the neighborhood. That is a buffer zone zone.
 classically and that's now being proposed as a candidate for form-based zoning and you know the Developers are going to go along with it because they're going to be pressured they want a quick answer But those lots catty-cornered from the botanical garden were eventually rezoned to NSG For a pizzeria that didn't get built but now there's a proposal to build a veterinary office there and that proposal ran aground I don't really care about the veterinary office and
 The preliminary design looks like this. And I did this little exhibit because it doesn't, people don't seem to get what's going on here, so I thought this might help. This is where the veterinary office is going to be, pushed out all the way to the street corner, even though everything else from Zion to the Springdale city line is the classic setback design. This will be the only urban building on that entire stretch.
 You could take that plan and put it like normal design, set back from the corner. You'd have the same greenhouse gases, the exact same amount. None of the four would change. Parking, the number of cars coming to drop off, dogs and cats would be the same. Traffic would actually be safer because there'd be more visibility at the corner. But it is this peevish, like fanatic...
 Devotion to pushing everything out to the corner like the city people do and I think it's doing harm to the citizens Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council I said we're gonna send this to ordinance review I
 yeah what was there a motion to table and yes a motion to table yes and how long do we want to table that well if you just left it here you've got two weeks before it comes back because we're on the second reading well that is that's true i i think we could probably have a meeting of the ordinance view committee within the next two weeks so if you just leave it on this reading if you're not ready next time you will need to table though okay let's go ahead and just leave it here then
 All right, well let's move along to new business. We're all ready at new business. All right, number one, a resolution to approve the attached trail license agreement with the Underwood Family Real Estate Limited Partnership and to thank the Underwoods for generosity, generously allowing federal citizens to use some trails on their property. Ken. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, thank you, council.
 Here today to recommend approval of a trail use agreement between the city and the Underwood family to allow designated public trails on private property adjacent to Mount Sequoia Woods Park. The agreement will cover two separate private tracks, one owned by the Underwood family and the other the Cliffs Apartments.
 The intent of the agreement is to expand nature and trail based opportunities from Mount Sequoia Woods onto adjacent private properties. It would further enhance the quality of life of Fayetteville's residents as well as help protect the private property owners from liability as expressed in Arkansas recreational statute law.
 Hopefully this agreement will serve as a model for future landowners who may be considering similar options. On behalf of Fayetteville Parks and Recreation, as well as the residents of Fayetteville, I'd like to express appreciation, deep appreciation, to the Underwood family for their openness and generosity in allowing public use on these properties. Absolutely. Thank you.
 i i would like to recognize mr craig underwood here and uh definitely express our appreciation thanks very much thank you very much thank you
 Would you like to say something? Well, I would like to say that how important this property has been to us. My entire family is pleased that we're able to share this with the city of Fayetteville and the entire North Arkansas community. My dad purchased this property back in the 1970s when Crossover Road was really nothing more than a gravel road out on the far east side of town.
 We've enjoyed hiking on it enjoying the property for years and we're thrilled that people are gonna be able to use it and use the hiking Trails what a lot of people don't know is nestled back in the woods There's this beautiful bluff lining cliff line that's back there that many people have never seen But that is the namesake for the cliffs community the apartment community And so by opening this up more people will be able to get to enjoy that when we first started this we are working just with the bicycle trails
 But the Parks Department came to us and said, well, how about expanding that a little bit and having a section down below the cliffs and creating a park area below that area. And so had a family meeting and my sisters and my parents agreed to that. So we've added that into the agreement. And so we're very pleased that land has brought an enormous amount of enjoyment to our family over the years. And we hope that opening the trails up in this park area will do the same and other people will be able to enjoy it as much as we have. So thank you all for the time.
 All right. Sarah. I move that we approve the resolution. Second. Any final comments from the council? Son. Thank you. Son. Yes. I would like to say thank you to the Underwood family for this. You know, this is one of the main reasons that I live in Fayetteville, that we can have easy, quick access to nature. I think it's a very important part of –
 mindfulness restfulness peacefulness so I really greatly appreciate it I have had the opportunity to see those bluffs that you're talking about the views are spectacular one thing I hope that we will also be able to do is do some education on I know I actually found some drawings on the bluffs but so I'm hopeful that maybe I don't know if other people have seen those but
 I'm a graphic designer, so I have an eye for patterns. But I'm hopeful that you guys have already recognized those and maybe invite the university and invite some education to happen on the people that lived there. So thank you very much for that, for sharing that with everyone. I was personally privately invited to go and check it out, but I'm glad that everyone else will enjoy them as well. All right.
 we have a motion and second to pass resolution again thank you to the underwood family for all that you've been a great partner for this city thank you okay son would you please call her up petty yes grogan yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all okay number two a resolution expressed the
 federal City Council support for the season participation in the soul smart solar friendly community program Mayor Council good evening Peter Nearing garden sustainability director for the city of Fayetteville this resolution Requests that the Fable City Council support the city's participation in the soul smart solar friendly community program
 This program is funded by the U.S. Department of Energy. It's also supported by the National League of Cities, the Solar Foundation, and the International City-County Manager Association. SolSmart is a program that has been developed to recognize communities that have taken steps towards making the development of solar and installation of solar facilities in their community easier. The program has been used to designate over 220 communities nationally
 um in the united states with a goal of designating 300 communities by october of 2020
 if you all will recall in January of last year the City Council adopted Fayetteville's energy action plan and that plan has a couple of goals that relate to this item goal of reducing energy consumption three percent annually and then a goal of transitioning to clean energy we have a 50% community-wide goal of clean energy by 2030 and then a 100% clean energy goal by the year 2050 and so we recognize obviously solar as part of our
 Ability to advance clean energy across the city of Fayetteville the program has eight different categories of scoring has two prerequisites that relate to permitting and and
 planning and zoning and development regulations and then there's another six categories that include inspection construction codes solar rights utility engagement community engagement and then market development and finance so the purpose of the program is to to allow SolSmart to come to Fayetteville and to
 make an evaluation of our current unified development code as our regulations relate to solar installations predominantly on privately held property property so residential and commercial and institutions throughout the community that are not city government facilities and identifying any barriers that may inadvertently exist in our current code and helping us develop streamlined processes for alleviating those potential barriers and
 Staff anticipates that working through the program will take several months and that at the conclusion of the process, there'll likely be some recommendations for modifications or changes to the Unified Development Code to eliminate or reduce any of those identified barriers. That work obviously will be done in close collaboration with the Development Services Department. Thank you.
 I would also like to note that the Environmental Action Committee discussed this item at their February 25th meeting and voted unanimously to support this resolution. With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions you all might have. What questions or comments do we have from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Mark. I move that we accept the resolution. Teresa. Yes.
 i second that well thank you everybody for the work on the trees i want to thank you for your work that you did on this staff it's a it's a real good thing really pleased with this okay any final comments all right so please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number three
 In order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 19-6524 for approximately 2.14 acres located at 2827 West Whipple Will Lane from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RES 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre. Gardner? Yes, Councilor.
 This request is located about two blocks from the intersection of Mission and Crossover. It is on the southeast corner of Whippoorwill and Crossover Road. It is two historical lots. This entire subdivision was planted in the late 60s, and the request is to rezone two of these lots. They're both a little bit over an acre. One has a house on it, and one has a pond on it.
 Surrounding zoning to the north is RMF 24 and across the street south and east is RSF 4. The adopted plans, it's designated as residential neighborhood area in our comprehensive plan. Recommends a variety of housing, residential types, increased density where appropriate.
 The proposed zoning in our view is consistent with Jason zoning in terms of bulk and area regulations The RSF 4 would be viewed as a conventional district and so does the RSF 8. It's not a form based district that was discussed earlier Issues that were raised at the Planning Commission There's concern about pedestrian safe safety precedent. Is this going to lead to additional requests and
 inconsistent with neighborhood character and of course the character is a variety of character to the north is small lot to the east is large lot and increased traffic and an increased density Planning Commission and staff did recommend approval and I believe the applicant is here and I'd Also be happy to answer any questions Okay, is the applicant here would they like to say something to the council?
 Hello, Justin Reed with Bates & Associates, Surveying and Engineering. And I would just like to say I'd be happy to answer any questions that anyone might have. Thank you. And I'm Brad Brown with the Roth family that owns the property, and I'll be glad to answer any questions that you guys may have about future development of that property. Okay. What questions do we have, Scott? So, I mean, we'll talk about a lot of issues. But one of them I kind of want to hit off pretty early here.
 The concern about the pond, if it was left RSF4, that pond could be removed under that current zoning. So the future of the pond is neutral to whether it's RSF4 or RSF8. Okay, thank you. Okay, anything else from the council for the applicant? Yes, Kyle. Yeah, we've gotten a lot of email about this, and it looks a lot like the email we get about a lot of these projects
 fairly small acreage neighborhood rezoning. So I just want to take an opportunity before public comment and acknowledge some of my own predispositions. Fundamentally, I think these questions come down to how much control we should exert over other people's property. And I usually favor more over less because I understand that land use impacts don't stop at the partial boundary.
 with new development, water flows, buildings cast shadows, smells waft, and traffic may even change up the street. Those are all very real impacts that we see in almost every single email we get. But it works both ways. Wholesale refusal of compatible and incremental development, that has an impact too, and that impact spreads out over the whole city.
 When one area is deemed off limits, then other areas have to pick up the slack, and the pressure builds up enough where somewhere we get a development that's more monumental than just incremental, and usually that happens in a lower-income neighborhood where the residents don't have the time, the resources, and the political capital to stop it.
 As Mr. Tonneson pointed out, some of us lean pretty strongly in favor of incremental density increases. I know I do. It's because I believe that RSF4 is fundamentally and mathematically unsustainable at our current growth rate. I've run the numbers before. I won't bore the council with that again. But I want to identify that predisposition now before folks come to the microphone so
 You know where I stand and because despite that predisposition, I've not made my mind
 I do want to invite neighbors to offer suggestions for how we can absorb a growing population and address our real core problem in more compatible ways than just drawing red lines around neighborhoods and saying, not here. Healthy cities grow and they change over time. Part of city living is realizing that we all have to shoulder a little bit of that burden together. So please use this as an opportunity to help us.
 Find a way to do that together and keep an inclusive and equitable community. So that's that's my request before we get started Okay Any other comments or questions before we take public comment? Okay. We'll take public comment again Everybody gets one turn at the mic You have a five minute limit unless council members ask you questions or by a vote of the council motion in a second to give You more time
 Keep comments addressed to me. Don't engage anybody at the city council or in the public. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic and your name and address and who would like to begin. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, my name is Brandon Kate. I'm a resident of Ward 1. I live on Inwood, 3045 Inwood Lane, which is one block over from Whippoorwill, where this is proposed. I appreciate my neighbors letting me go first. I've gotta go pick up my son at his sports practice tonight, so I'll be brief. I grew up in Fayetteville. I'm a graduate of Fayetteville High School. I love Fayetteville so much. As my family grew,
 I wanted to find a forever home, and I wanted to find one of those quintessential Fayetteville neighborhoods. I'm an attorney, and I have clients that come to Fayetteville to visit for various legal reasons. And when they're here, I like to show them the things that are quintessential about Fayetteville. We go eat a burger at Hugo's.
 We go to get ribs at Herman's. We go to the farmer's market. We go up to Mount Sequoia, and we look at the view. So when I was looking for my permanent home, I wanted one of those quintessential Fayetteville neighborhoods. I...
 One of my best friends lived on Inwood growing up, and I used to spend the night at his house. We used to sled. When it would snow, we'd sled down Inwood and down Whippoorwill. I just loved the neighborhood. And when a house came for sale, my wife and I were able to buy it.
 and we've been there about four and a half years, and we just love the neighborhood. My kids ride their bikes. The neighborhood's starting to turn over, and young families are moving in. There's a trail behind my house that all the kids take to go up to Lover's Lane. It's just such a neat neighborhood, and...
 this proposal, the change that's being proposed here is at the entrance of our neighborhood. This is where everybody, this is where we turn in to drive up our street. And I think this would materially change one of those quintessential Fayetteville neighborhoods that so many people love. And it just...
 putting eight houses around that pond just strikes me as not being a good use of the resources we have in favor. I know the city's growing. I lived before we lived on Inwood. We lived on the West side. I know, uh,
 uh... it's a growing city but this is one of those quintessential fable neighborhoods it's our house was built nineteen sixty nine uh... mister trumbulls uh... client coach bar hills daughter uh... was was the original owner of the house there's there's just there's so many homes uh... in this neighborhood hate to see
 Something that I think is going to materially change the character of the neighborhood, be installed at our entranceway, and
 that I think is going to have safety concerns for the kids. Our kids would ride their bikes to McNair Middle School. And now there's already so much traffic on Crossover in the mornings when we're trying to turn out and drive to work and everything. And just adding eight houses where there's one right now, I think would change the neighborhood. It's not what Fayetteville should be.
 I've gone back and I've done research on the neighborhood. Before any of this came up, the public library has a very neat resource. When the sign ordinance was passed in the early 1970s, somebody went around and took a picture of every sign in the city. And that's all available in our public library on the website.
 And you can go see the creation of our neighborhood, the Seventh Day Adventist Church. It's right across the street from the entryway. And you can see the signs advertising the new homes in our neighborhood. There's some historic value in this neighborhood, I think. I'm really against the change, and I appreciate you all hearing my concerns. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. My name is Ray Parker. I live at 2965 East Inwood and I've lived in this neighborhood for more than eight years. I oppose this rezoning and I urge you to oppose it as well. I believe this is a substantial change, not an incremental one. When the City Development Commission approved this, I believe they made several errors.
 They felt that one home on the acreage, proposed acreage, would not sell due to the proximity to a very noisy high-traffic crossover road. So instead, they green-lighted the building of 68 homes there. Secondly, they ignored the potential bottleneck of morning traffic from Whippoorwill onto highly congested crossover roads.
 Thirdly, they totally discounted the possibility of unsold homes and subsequent falling home prices. Fourthly, pedestrian traffic along crossover was described as highly desirable. I don't know if you've ever walked that road, but I urge you as an experiment to walk from Whippoorwill to the Mission Corner. It's frightening.
 Lastly, they said no plan could possibly satisfy all the members of the neighborhood. I submit that leaving the zoning as it is to accommodate one or two new homes would surely satisfy the neighborhood and maintain the current character of the neighborhood. I believe everyone in our neighborhood desires a growing, improving Fayetteville, but hopes for the future should not be built on the unmourned sacrifices of President residents.
 When traffic bottlenecks on Whippoorwill, as it inevitably will, we will live with the consequences. When traffic overflows to East and Wood Lane, we will live with those consequences. When street safety for our children and pets become an issue, we will live with the consequences. When property values due to unsold new units out of step with current family residents, we will surely live with those consequences as well. Please block this rezoning.
 Thank you. Thank you. Okay Good evening. Thanks for listening this day. My name is Doug Ashton. I have lived at 3041 Whippoorwill Lane since September the 5th 1981 I believe that I'm the longest resident of that entire area there are 20 homes in that area that are what's called the Whippoorwill in wood loop and
 The approximate value of those homes is between 8.5 and 9.7 million dollars. At the beginning of our meeting tonight, Mayor Jordan, about 60 percent of the property value owners of that area were here. And about 50 percent of them are still here today in terms of that property value. I would like to tell you that when I came here in 1981 to become part of the University of Arkansas,
 that I was looking for a different quality of life than what I had in Denver, Colorado. I was looking for a community where my son could go to school at a smaller school and get the attention that he needed. And he went to Woodland and then went to Fayetteville High School. We were looking for a quality of life and a style of living that reflected what we wanted our future to be for our children and for ourselves.
 I spent six weeks living in the old Holiday Inn, and I spent that six weeks every night looking in every community, east, north, south, and west, and outside of the mayor's box, as a matter of fact. I looked as far south as West Fork, as far north as Bentonville, to travel back and forth. We chose a neighborhood that could be called the Whifferwill Inwood Loop, or commonly it's called the Lover's Lane region. That's where we actually live.
 We chose that neighborhood because it reflected what we thought our values were, and we also chose that neighborhood because of our neighbors. And those have turned over three times in that 38-year period of time. The values that we see in that neighborhood are actually growing at a point of about a half a percent a month, according to Zillow.com. I went and looked at those today, too.
 Would like to tell you part of the reason that I made a decision with my wife to buy that home is we reviewed the covenants of that area which are promises made among the people that live in that area of what that area would be and those Covenants tell us that not one piece of land should be smaller than an acre The average size of the acreage per household in that area is between 1.1 and 1.2 acres So we feel we fit within that area the piece of property in question is the lowest valued piece of property on that loop and
 That house used to have a lap pool in the middle of that area. It used to have 110 geese and ducks on it. It created quite a problem for us overall. So if we bought that house today, that house is valued at about $340,000 to $350,000 with all the land. I can honestly see where we'd want to put 8 to 16 houses on there at $250,000 because it's a great investment opportunity for us overall overall.
 But what we're looking at here today, it seems to me, is an illusion of what could be in housing and not a reality of what it is.
 And I think that Brandon, Kate, made a good response in terms of it's a family environment overall. As a community, we're trying to defend our property rights and the rights of our children to a safe haven, to have access to go to schools like McNair and Root School as well, too. It is a single-family home neighborhood, and I emphasize family neighborhood, and it has been that for quite some time.
 If you look at the loop, it looks like kind of like a kidney. Yeah, we might be able to get rid of a kidney and put another one in there. But unfortunately, I think this might be a growth in the neighborhood that's going to devalue that neighborhood too. It's close to a shopping center. When I first moved there, the area north of Whippoorwill was agriculture. And then we built homes. And the average value of those homes is $170,000 to $290,000 with a median value of $235,000.
 The median value of our neighborhood is $390,000. The average value is $425,000 with a low range of $340,000 to a high range of $1.1 million in that neighborhood. Doesn't sound too much to me like small homes at the entrance of the neighborhood are a good fit for that neighborhood.
 Want to tell you that our our neighborhood is a very personalizing neighborhood It certainly is not an apathetic neighborhood and the attendance tonight at your meeting indicates and supports that conclusion for us overall What we're asking for you to do is to vote against this This motion if we will we're asking you to protect us and using our covenants to support Why we live there and why we have defended the area and why we continue to invest in that area and see it to be able to grow We ask that you
 Defeat this motion and disagreement. We disagree by the way with the Planning Commission And I'm not really sure that we were heard well by the Planning Commission. Thank you so much for hearing us tonight My name is Rick Churchill I sent one of the emails I ended up being novelette I apologize, but it seems like there were a lot of points to cover in in
 Listening to all of you talk tonight, there are some comments that were made and some of the people testifying. Someone talked about the zoning changing incrementally from 10 to 12. We're talking about 4 to 8. You're doubling what's allowed. You are also talking about a proposal from a developer. He's under no obligation to fulfill that proposal.
 You zone that RSF8, that land is now RSF8 to be used anywhere they want to within that zoning requirement. Someone spoke to affordable housing. The developer is proposing housing at $250,000. I'm old enough to think that's expensive. My first house cost $35,000 and it was brand new on one acre of land.
 So I'm an old guy, so 250 seems expensive. The Park Department talked about quality of life. You're talking about putting these people close to 265. That traffic has grown and will continue to grow. It is the bypass on the east side of the bay. So the quality of life for these people is going to be subjective, and they'll decide whether that's what they want or don't want. These are small lines.
 Mission Heights has small lots, and I think they've sold five houses. That property is sitting there going nowheres. Those guys have invested houses. They're sitting there empty. Someone spoke to the consistency of use. You have single-family homes. Now you want to put small lots, smaller houses, which will probably end up being rentals.
 And in this part of the woods, there are several duplexes next door. They are not maintained that well. People rent them. I don't expect them to maintain them. But they don't. They have a different attitude towards housing. And that's the way it is. The other comment I thought was real interesting was yours, Kyle, and that was RSF4 is not sustainable. If you look at the maps of Fayetteville,
 It's 90% of, or 80%, I mean, I don't have, visually, it is loaded with RSF4, and you're saying that... No, no, stay with me. Keep calm. Okay. You're saying that it's not a sustainable model. So you're saying Fayetteville's zoning plan is not sustainable. I find that very intriguing. So in closing, obviously, I'm against it. The exhibit I gave you shows how...
 The chicken's going to get plucked. You're going to do those two lots, and then it can start slowly rolling down crossover. If I was one of those homeowners south of those two lots, I'd be at the door right now putting in a zoning request to do it because my property would be a lot more. The other thing I would offer you is I lived in Texas for a number of years as a licensed real estate agent. They had a real interesting law in Texas.
 You change the zoning of a property and make it more valuable. You had to go back and pay taxes on that property for five years under the new value. And so people were cautious about doing that because you could sit on farmland and pay a dollar a year, whatever, and then you rezone it and it's worth $10,000 an acre and you should have been paying way more taxes.
 So just a thought for you to consider. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, my name is Ann Justice, and I live at 2850 East Inwood Lane, and I've lived there for 35 years. And I have about an acre and a half, and I'm adjacent to this property, not right behind it, but catty corner. I have here a copy of the original property
 abstract title for this neighborhood. Now I know they've expired because they only last 25 years and this property has been developed for over 50 years.
 But it says, lots 1 through 20 in the addition shall be for residential purposes only and no structure shall be erected on any lot other than a one family dwelling and attached or detached one, two, or three car garage and only one residence shall be erected on any one lot in the addition.
 This would still be good if someone had known that you have to reapply for this. I didn't know that. We didn't know that. But my main concern about this property, and I called the state. I called them again this morning, and they don't have the last year's results for the traffic.
 But in the 80s, when I first called and asked about it, in the 80s, there were 7,000 vehicles going on Crossover Road. I called for last year's, and it's not available until May, but that previous year, 27,000 cars.
 Pass will be passing within 10 to 20 feet of that property where the pond is as 27,000 in 17 not in 18 when I
 Some of you all know David Horn, who passed away recently. He lived at the top of this hill. And I looked out my window one day, and his 2-year-old son was chasing a ball down that street. Just as it curved down, he was coming all the way down. He would have been on crossover and probably hit by a car had I not gone out and stopped him. My concern is for the...
 eight people, houses, and their children, and their pets that you're going to put on that street, because somebody's going to get hurt. Somebody's going to get hit. Okay, now, the big problem here is that we have no idea what they're going to do over there, and I'm not sure they do either. They kind of subdivided it into eight straight lots. Well, I
 If we could know what their plans are, it would help a lot of the anxiety that we feel about this. As yet, I don't think that the Roth brothers know what they're going to do with this property. And so how can you okay something if you don't know what they're going to do with it?
 Now, I looked online at these builders, and they build beautiful homes. Anybody would be proud to have one of their homes, whether it was $250 or $550. They have been building in Rogers and all of our surrounding areas for a while. And they're quality builders, there's no doubt about it. But not eight. I mean, on my property, which is an acre and...
 almost three quarters. That means at some point in time you could probably put 10 houses on that. And I don't want this to start over there. The developer up in Rogers, they spent $75,000 for a wall to enclose their new development. $750,000, excuse me. They had the bricks wrought from South Carolina. If they want to put homes on there,
 This is at the corner of Township and 265. I don't think you can call it Crossover Road anymore because it's a highway. Five lane, 265. This is the kind of houses we'd like to see built over there. I know my time is up. It's called Edgewood, and it's on that corner. You don't see it because there's a great big wall all the way around it, and that's what we need here or people are going to be hurt. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for your patience. Okay, who would like to address us next? My name is William Justice and I belong to that lady and I live in her house. Anyway, unfortunately I'm also a lawyer and I'm her lawyer. Okay, thank you all for listening to all of us because I'm sure this is all going to be considerably repetitive. Anyway, in 1968 the Inwood Development Company set up this whole concept.
 They found an original plant with 20 lots. They want to build one house on each lot and make it a neighborhood. Now, there seems to be some kind of question about compatibility. In my conversations with the zoning department, which was very cordial, they informed me that the single issue that they were interested in was compatibility. Now, the Arkansas Supreme Court up in Bentonville had a case about this. Someone opposed the idea that compatibility was vague.
 It's not that vague. According to the Supreme Court, it is very clear. All you've got to do is look up the Oxford Dictionary, and it says it must be consistent and compatible with existing development and the environment. And putting anywhere from four to six to eight houses on this particular piece of land is about as incompatible as you can get with the rest of 19 lots who all have one home on each one. And I will say our neighborhood has character.
 We have people walking their dogs. It's not unusual for me to see a deer with eight points and his three girlfriends in my front yard spending the winter. We even have coyotes in our neighborhood, armadillos, everything you can think of because it's quiet. We've managed to control what we have individually, all 19 lots. The only one we haven't had control of is this lot. And we're...
 I think it's completely unreasonable and against all common sense to develop the one lot out of 23 into a cut-up density two-acre parcel. It's my understanding that they want to take advantage of minimal lot furnish requirements and cut it from 70 feet down to 50 feet. Now, I don't know if you guys have this, ladies, gentlemen, a copy of a concept that they have come up with. And it's...
 It's basically six lots, 50 feet wide, and some of them are as long as 200 feet. Now, the way this is set up, that would mean we'd have six driveways going out onto Whip Rail. Now, Mr. Reid and I have had some very nice conversations, and right now they don't know what they're going to do. But we're left hanging in the wind. We don't know what they're going to do, but if they put six driveways in there, we've got kids within 100 feet of there playing ball in the street.
 And I think this is unconscionable. So we would like to ask you to vote against this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hi. Hi. Eileen McGarry, 27, oh, geez, 2976, senior moment, Whippoorwill. I guess you all had my email with my map and so forth. For me, the big issue is, and I think it is the issue, is...
 We're getting penned up by this event into our own neighborhood. I tried to think about how to express it to you because you don't live there, and this is not your home. It's like this. I tried to come up with a good analogy, so bear with. It's as though you have a shelf with a load-bearing weight of 10 pounds, and there's 10 one-can pounds of peas sitting on it.
 And the inventory manager comes in with five more one-pound cans of peas. And being the inventory manager, of course, he thinks those peas should go right on that shelf with the other peas because they're alike. However, if you were standing under that shelf, you'd have a whole different way of looking at it because the shelf is going to come crashing down. If I didn't.
 My analogy was too complicated. Okay. That's where we're at. I'd like to maybe say a little bit more about the pedestrian issue. I don't just see the pedestrian issue being one where these potential houses would be located. I don't have any data to back it up, but the greater number of drivers come in and out of the
 neighborhood at Whippoorwill and Crossover because most of the people in the neighborhood live on Whippoorwill and Starlight, which is off of Whippoorwill. So they mainly use that side.
 But it's already stressed. And Sutter, which is right next to it, just the very next block north, is also coming in and out. And just north of that, everybody's coming in and out all the time of that major shopping center. So bing, bing, bing, three in a row. And as I said, it's wall-to-wall, bumper-to-bumper traffic now.
 Imagine five years. Imagine 10 years. What's going to happen? You can't build another light. You can't put another, you know, do not blocks intersection isn't going to help or a stop sign. What do you do then? And not just for us, but what do you do for all those people that are trying to, you know, that are backed up?
 from the light as it is. Now, if you live in the neighborhood and you're trying to get in and you're trying to get out, what are you going to do? You're going to go take the path of least resistance. And right now, most people use Whippoorwill, but I see even people on Whippoorwill and Starlight starting to use Inwood. And they'll have to drive around the loop to get there because it isn't the closest to them, but they will do it. I don't have data, but
 These truths shall be self-evident, right? People take the path of least resistance. They're going to look for the best way in and out. And our kids are there on that road, on that loop, playing. We have no sidewalks. We don't have any choice. One of the people I'm worried about is my 76-year-old husband who walks our dogs there every day. And just most people.
 So it's not just a matter of, oh, and I wasn't going to bring this up, but I think I will mainly because of Mr. Smith and his remarks. I'll actually send you in email some links. Regardless of how you decide our neighborhood, I think it's real important for you to think, as I know you do, and I know you care about the future of Fayetteville. But I lived in Fort Collins, Colorado, which should be,
 fat warning to people who live in Fayetteville. You're about 20 years behind them in terms of development. I lived here in 1983 and left in 1990. I graduated from school, left for personal reasons, but I had very good friends here so I was back here every few years. And I saw, literally, Fayetteville grow up and I thought they did such a wonderful job.
 But eventually, just like you have to question, just like greed is good. Time. Growth is good. Yeah, oh, growth is good, all right. Jobs, et cetera, et cetera. Time's up. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, I'll email you the rest of my screed. Thank you for listening. You're welcome.
 Yes. Hello, Mayor Jordan. My name is Laura Kate. I live at 3045 East Inwood, which is in Ward 1. We moved to Fayetteville about 14, 15 years ago, and we lived on the west side of town in Ward 4 in a very highly dense area. And you were actually my alderman at the time, and you helped me with a couple of issues, and I appreciated it then.
 What we're coming really to ask now is for your protection of our beautiful neighborhood and friendships that we have developed. I grew up not in Arkansas. I'm a Tennessean. I grew up in Nashville, Tennessee. And as she was saying, Fort Collins, we're about 20 years behind Nashville in the development issues that they are seeing. And as I'm seeing in my parents' house where they lived in Green Hills, it...
 They bought their house 50 years ago and development and the changes and where it used to be one house, there are now eight houses. The nature of the neighborhoods have completely changed and it's only when the neighbors have banded together and said, we understand growth and we understand people moving in and jobs, but there's something special about a neighborhood that becomes friends together and help each other.
 When we were needing to move out of our house on the west side, one of the reasons were our neighbors were really loud and I could hear their fights in my patio when I was gardening. And I couldn't take their anger anymore. And I looked at Brandon and I said, we have to find something peaceful here.
 So we are driving after church one Sunday, and he drives me up a road on Inwood, and I looked at him before we even got to our house, and I said, this is home. I finally feel like I am where I'm supposed to be. So as long as the house isn't falling down, we're buying it. And he went, okay. And we put in an offer, the bricks on our house are from the high school that was torn down in 1960.
 the floors, my kitchen bricks. It is a cool old historic house. It's funky. It's different. I have foxes and deers and more birds than I can begin to enumerate. But what really draws me is the neighbors that have put their arms around me and helped me, my children, grow up. They, I have no concern if my children are riding their bikes. They're now 14 and
 When they were first here, I wasn't sure if I was going to let them out of my sight. Dub and the Parkers, they were keeping an eye on the kids. The Richardsons who passed away a year ago, she let me know that the bus driver was driving off before. My children were fully off the bus, and she wasn't really coming to a stop. Had all these wonderful eyes, and it felt like that small-town community again.
 I understand the need for development. Sixteen houses on the end of the street, it doesn't fit. There are other ways we can make this work. There's not the public transportation. Two blocks is really a stretch for them to say that we're there by the intersection. Walgreens is half a mile from my house. I will walk it. I love where I live because it's the walkability of it.
 I'm really afraid y'all are being misled that this is the solution for Fayetteville's growth problems. Please, please protect our neighborhood and protect the family that we have gotten together. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi my name is Chris McGinnis. I live on Inwood Lane. I'm absolutely not prepared to speak. It just seems like I need to say something so this is not going to be organized in any way. Mr. Smith said before this even started he's open-minded but I've already made it my mind. This is what the city needs is these pockets of fast growth quick dollars made. At least he's honest. Appreciate it. I hope you will.
 Take this into consideration. This is not consistent in any way with what's there now, what has been there. Some of you may be sentimental for historic homes. I am. This is a historic neighborhood. Some of you may not. But just please think about it for other reasons too. The traffic problems everybody else mentioned, 100% accurate. My kids are not allowed to walk.
 On current parts of crossover you can't even hear you can't have a conversation while you're walking on crossover kids already So close and you're gonna throw a whole bunch more cars right there in the middle that This is this is not what anybody here was elected to vote for You're here to make good decisions for the city. We need growth You don't need growth at the expense of something that's valuable to the city. Don't don't trade that off just to say I'm
 This is easy, yes, just get it out of the way. Just please think about this. This is not what the people that voted for you want. Save the stone house in the community. That's great. This is, don't change the way of life for an entire neighborhood in lieu of one builder who wants to make a quick buck. This was a land grab, just bought this up real quick.
 They don't live here. They don't enjoy this. They don't enjoy Fayetteville like we do. They're just going to make some money. That's all this is. Just set a precedent here that you guys will stand up for this. You'll stand up for the people who voted for you. This is not...
 Easy, I'm sure. It's not easy for me. I've never been to a city council meeting. I love the discussion you guys had previous to ours. But just please think about it as a citizen of Fayetteville, not just somebody who thinks, oh, we've got to get more people in here, we've got to get more people in here. Like, respect the people that you have.
 We're paying the property taxes there that are going up and up and up and because our property values went up, that's great. We're happy with that but don't mess up what we moved here for. I don't know what I'm talking about now. Growth is good, same thing. Just find a better way to do it. You don't have to destroy something valuable to get that growth in there.
 Yeah, same thing. It's just you talked the heated debate about the building codes. This is absolutely not consistent with anything around there. I don't know how many of you go over there. It will look out of place, and there's no way to fix it. You're going to take out a pond and...
 one maybe two dozen trees and throw up a bunch of tiny little houses and That are a third the size of some of the neighboring houses. It just doesn't doesn't make sense to me So thank you. Please vote for the people that voted for you I have a question
 And it might not be you, it might be one of your neighbors that could answer this. When I look at this property, and listen, I think that community engagement is the most important thing. And everyone that wrote to me, I encouraged you to get together and do this.
 When I look at the current zoning and you say it's incompatible, I look at Setter Lane and I look at Hunter's Ridge, which is RMF 24. Does that destroy your neighborhood? No, I know absolutely nothing about the zoning, the numbers. I'm sorry. I told you I'm not prepared. But I know when I drive past these streets and there's Setter, and yes, house, house, house, house, house, all down it. When you get to Whippoorwill, it's not that way. It's the lots. It's the historic buildings.
 very rare part of Fayetteville that we still have. And if you look down that road, I don't know if you have or if you just looked on the overhead map, but that will change the entire neighborhood because this is at the forefront of the neighborhood. I don't know if that helps. On the north side of Whippoorwill, it's also much higher density zoning than what we're looking at to change. You're talking about Sutter? No, I'm talking about Whippoorwill. It's RMF 24. There we have it.
 on whippoorwill on the north side and i i guess and i did go and drive through the neighborhood several times because i'm trying to see at least i live in a neighborhood that is pressured by the university college avenue north avenue maple and i know where you're coming from you've got to protect your neighborhood but i want to also be very pragmatic when i look at the real impact
 The future and I know that it's what I would think it sets a poor precedent that if someone else wanted to do this In the middle of lovers Lane that that would be fine I don't think that's what we're talking about here because lovers Lane doesn't have RMF 24 And that neighborhood and so I told you I came in unprepared for this Well, someone else might have some answers I don't know but if you look at if you look at this and you throw eight houses in that subject property It's not the same
 Okay. I'm trying. I really am trying. I get it. And I appreciate that. One at a time. Okay. That's all I've got. Okay. I believe someone, Mark, I believe he has an answer to your question. Hi, Mark. I'm Rick Churchill. I live on Stardust, which is that section you're talking about. When you drive in that neighborhood, Stardust is hidden. I went down Stardust today. Okay. It's back up inside it. So from the...
 from the street, from Inwood and Wickerwell, you don't see Stardust. It doesn't change the ambiance of that old Glendale subdivision. It's hidden. It's off to the side. So when you put this high density at the entrance to this old subdivision, you are definitely changing the complexion of that subdivision. Okay.
 Do you do you want do you need any more? My name is John wisdom. I live 2825 East Inwood Lane also in Ward 1 We've lived in this house that was built by NFL Hall of Famer Raymond Berry back in the 70s we bought it for my wife's aunt and uncle who lived there for 25 years and
 This house has got a lot of frontage on 265, so if anybody wants to talk about noise, I'm your huckleberry. But I will say that what I have two comments about, and one is the pond, and I spoke with city staff and engineering today, and they were very, very helpful.
 The one thing I'd like to point out is that the pond, even though it's not noted as a retention pond, it also may not have been required to be noted as a retention pond, and that with the current zoning and even going to the eight, there is no drainage review required. That is my understanding. I think that anybody who is in this neighborhood would understand that we are at the bottom of three hills and there is drainage coming from the south
 There's drains coming from the north and there's drains coming from the Mission Heights area. So to just blanket say that the pond's not in play without a drainage review, I think the city council, who is also looking at a proposed plan,
 Ordinance or excuse me a bond issue to address stormwater treatment Also talking about a stormwater treatment tax I think this is an opportunity to do the right thing the first time Instead of worry about it damaging somebody else's property later, so I would ask you to deny the request Until the known impact of the missing pond is available to you as elected officials the second thing I have is from a business standpoint and
 Don't understand the request for the eight when he can do what they need to do with the four to the proper lot splitting procedure that the city already has and
 So it makes me think that we don't really know what they're going to do because they're maybe hoping to get the RF S8 and then maybe do something else and add a conditional use on top of it Which which could get them into a cluster housing situation with a side street or something they would put on the top of that So I'm with the rest of the neighbors that say it is not compatible I'm also with the neighbors that say this doesn't fit. It doesn't fit with the city plan 30. It doesn't give the vision 2050
 When you look at the definitions of some of those words, appropriate infill.
 diversity and growth economy, pathways to prosperity. These houses are not going to be an affordable housing option. They're being built in this neighborhood because there's an opportunity to make some money at a square footage that's available. Roth Family Homes does a great job. No one's going to say they don't build quality homes. That's not the point. My point is they're asking for a zoning change. They don't need to do that to get what they're asking for on the piece of paper they submitted.
 But they're asking for it for some reason. They're going through all this. They're engaged in city council. They're going through all this for a reason. And we don't know what that reason is, and that's what worries me, because I think that reason is something that's different than what may be on that piece of paper. So I'm asking to deny it because of that as well. Thank you for your time. I know this is hard because you're talking about people's lives, people's livelihood, and their perception of family. So thank you for taking the time, and thank you for sitting over there while we're over here. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? I have a question. Oh, I'm sorry. Not for him, but for Garner. Okay, sure. But it has to – tell me about the drainage and the drainage management as they move forward, because there has to be drainage management. We know that. Yes, this was supplied by the applicant, but the two lots in question are – thank you, Don –
 This lot which has the pond on it. Here's the existing house. I mean if you look at I'm looking at the topography this this is really critical. Right, this is the drainage area that interfaces with the pond right now. The drainage from this area goes to the pond. Right. Right. Okay, but if the pond was gone or if there was flats or there was surfaces there that's going to add
 more volume and more velocity, doesn't that have to be contained somehow? It either has to be contained. Actually, this is downhill. It would actually just run to. Yeah, it would run down, and if there was a lot more surface, we would get more volume and more, because it's not going to be permeable surface. It's rooftops. It probably would increase the drainage, yes. Yeah. Yeah.
 well that's probably the most valid reason because this is critical property looking at the topography and the runoff and we know that we have a problem with drainage in this very area as a matter of fact if you look at the map that has the hot spots of flooding areas they're they're over here so it does i i didn't i would thought i would have thought that there would have been a a critical
 There would be something to manage this critical element of the specific topography, hydrology, and geography that we're faced with on these lots. And that pond is critical in managing the volume and the velocity. We saw what happened to Lake Lucille here 25 years ago when we didn't think about what was being built across from Mission
 And it all went into Lake Lucille and destroyed the lake and the drainage from the lake. No, you can't. We—
 So I'm suddenly more concerned than I was a minute ago. Because, you know, I'm chairman of the Water Sewer Committee, and we've looked at all these hot spots, and there has to be an infrastructure to manage this. We know what's coming down from Lovers Lane and all that up there, and we've had flooding or we've had runoff issues where the water tower is that we put in
 Because we didn't think about that ahead right it's true. I know and so Suddenly I have this really big concern look how steep this topography is around the pond and look How that how it's coming up from lovers Lane down to the pond? We've got a lot of water coming through there just a thought Okay, I have another question for Garner. She's on the same subject. I
 Gardner, would you say that RSF 8 zoning, the proposed zoning, has more or less or the same stormwater runoff requirements as the existing RSF 4 zoning? The zoning district is neutral to that question. The question is, can they do a lot split?
 Right, but the zoning is neutral to that question and it has no effect on the degree of protection from runoff that would be required. But my point was if they met the threshold where they would have to do a plat other than a lot split, our storm drainage detention requirements would kick in. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, I'm Cindy Murray, and my family and I live at 1667 Stardust. And I just want to say thank you for listening and thank you for serving our city. I love Fayetteville. It has a nice combination of nature and things to do. I grew up in Houston, Texas. I don't miss it. I went to school in Austin, loved it, but that was in 2000 and 2004. We only have 10 people that moved to this area, in this neighborhood, in the past three years. 10 people, including myself.
 One of the things I love about it is the nature of the neighborhood. If somebody would have asked me if I want to push as a home in Setter, which is one straight north of Whippoorwill, I would say no, because it's a completely different neighborhood. I kind of like your question about, you know, you have this big burden on your shoulders of meeting the needs of the growing city.
 What came to my mind as you asked that question is we're not really utilizing the lot that are already zoned. So for an example, the two lots that they have, that one lot doesn't even have any houses, but it's zoned OSF4. So maybe we should start looking at what lands are we not fully utilizing their current zoning and start there.
 I'm just afraid that I don't want Fayetteville to become like Houston. I still want to maintain the beauty, but yet satisfy the need of a growing city. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Bill Reagan. I live on Huntsville Road. My mother-in-law lives on Inwood, so I'm kind of helping speak for Trudy.
 Somebody described it as an assault on, it felt like an assault on single-family homes. That's kind of what it feels like on this side of it. You know, it's like, wait a minute, they bought these houses with the large lots for a reason. And we brought up basically all these points to the zoning committee. Last time, they listened to it and kind of quickly stamped it yes.
 Only one person kind of brought up a point, and he said, wait a minute, I think this pond might serve some sort of purpose. Maybe we need to have an engineer look at that. Sort of the same thing that Mr. Kenyon pointed out, that maybe this pond serves some sort of purpose. And one of the committee members on the zoning team said, well, you can't keep this neighborhood frozen in amber.
 Things change. Doesn't sound like you guys want any kind of growth. That's not true. They're not saying we don't want any growth. They're saying it's already zoned RF4. Do it as RF4. But that's not good enough. They want double that. They want 8 or 16 or whatever. And some of the neighbors are afraid that if this gets approved, then, well, the next house over on
 Inwood, that's going to be sold and that's going to be divided up and pretty soon we're going to have a bunch of apartments with a lot of renters, college students, parties, keggers, a rotating group of rock and roll. And more and more kind of not that. That was just a joke. Okay, but it's like, yeah, it's just like.
 Oh, you've heard my point. That's it. The neighborhood, those apartment complexes, these houses, they're not going to be with the continuity of the neighborhood. They're not going to continue with that. It's going to look different. I think you guys know that. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. My name is Keith Webb. My mom and I own 2939 East Inwood. So I won't go into details. Everybody else has already talked about continuity in the neighborhood. Taking effect, the water and setting on the hill. The three houses on our side of the road do have sump pumps and flood when the water comes down. My house is single level, never floods, but it always comes right up to the back.
 So I think if anything else you do is worry about the water. Water is always standing as you pull in to Inwood, always, even when it's in summer. So I don't know if there's a fresh spring that's up that hill that comes running down all the time. So just might be something else for y'all to take in consideration for these developments. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 My name is Chuck Rutherford. I live at 3009 Whippoorwill Lane. I live next door to Dr. Ashton. Number one of the covenants for the Glendale addition, Mrs. Justice talked about one house per lot.
 Number 10 of those same covenants, if you don't care, I'd like to read you number 10 of the covenants. You have five minutes, Chuck, any way you want to cut. Okay. These covenants and restrictions are to run with the land and shall be binding upon all the parties, their heirs and assigns for a period of 25 years from the date hereof.
 At any time after the expiration date, a majority of the lot owners may express their intention in writing so as to be recorded, that they no longer desire these covenants to be in effect, and the same shall then be terminated. These covenants may be amended or changed by a majority of the lot owners in writing and recorded with the Register of Deeds of Washington County, Arkansas. As I know, there has not been any change.
 asking of these covenants to be Changed so I just want to read that to you. I've lived where I live for 28 years We were talking about the water the water comes down through up above on Inwood through my lot and drains right down to that pond that everybody's talking about and I've been made aware that the the
 storage unit place right across 265 from our subdivision is constantly being flooded when there's a quite a bit of rain and If that water if that pond is removed that'll just add more water going across Highway 265. I also purchased this lot 28 years ago with my home on it and that's where I raised my plants and vegetables for the farmers market and
 and I'd hate to see the neighborhood change. Thank you. Thank you, Chuck. Okay, who else would like to address this? Have we gotten everybody? Yes, ma'am. Hello. I'm Trudy Moss Black, and I live on Inwood Lane, and I oppose this very, very strongly. I haven't lived here like a bunch of my new neighbors have, but I love it where I live, and you can't let all this happen to it. Please think about it.
 In your heart, would you like for this to be happening to your neighborhood? Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right, Sarah. Thank you. I've heard several people criticize tonight that we don't actually know what the developers are proposing. And I want to clarify that we're not actually allowed to consider any specific development proposal.
 because what we are talking about is a land use decision. And so when we rezone something, that zoning stays, whether or not this developer goes forward with their plan or a new developer goes forward with their plan. So I wanna make sure that you understand that we're not acting with incomplete information. We're obeying the law by not considering the specific development proposal. I think it's important that we understand the growth issue that we're facing.
 We are expecting in northwest Arkansas 50,000 new residents over the next decade. Okay, that's if we maintain current growth levels. So if we keep growing at the exact same rate that we're growing now, we can expect 50,000 new residents in northwest Arkansas. Now consider that from a land use perspective.
 if each one of those new residents or say every 2.5 of them required an acre of land as you do in your neighborhood to build a home on that would use eight times as much land as putting them on eight units to an acre.
 Okay, so that is a significant challenge when we look at maintaining open space, protecting the natural environment, being efficient with our resources and our infrastructure and our transportation needs. That these small decisions lot by lot have exponential impacts when you consider how they affect the regional growth pattern. Let's also consider that demographics are shifting.
 And right now, over 70% of our households are non-family households that have no children present. So non-family households are the majority, and that's a number that's rising and expected to exceed 80% over the next decade. Additionally, over 60% of our households are rentals. So renters are the majority of our citizens.
 Okay, we have a different economic climate than many of you probably came of age in a lot of younger people now They're straddled with student loan debt wages are stagnant they cannot afford the the big houses on the acre lots that people of older generations could afford and
 And so in planning for the future, because ultimately this development will be there 50, 100 years, we have to think about those demographic shifts and make sure that we have the right type of housing for the citizens of not just today but also tomorrow. So when you think about where we're going to put all of this new growth,
 What makes sense? And when we look at our 2030 city plan, you know, through that process, we identified that building that development close to goods and services, which, you know, this is within a quarter of a mile of many basic services, right?
 Okay, putting it on major arterials, which this lot actually fronts the mayor's box around the city, which is a high volume traffic arterial that we're designing to have future transit corridor. So it makes a lot of sense to put development here. And this is also at the corner at the edge of a neighborhood rather than buried deep inside the neighborhood. So when we look at where development should go,
 This actually makes a lot of sense. Now, if we were to look at, Garner, if you would pull up page three of the packet, please. I'd like to consider this from a land use compatibility perspective. Page three, it's the one with the zoning map. That's not the right project. I'm sorry, page three of this agenda item. Thank you. That's the map. Thank you.
 If you'll actually look at this, so just to the north, we have RMF 24. That's residential multifamily 24 units per acre. To the south, we have residential single family at four units per acre. So really, this RSF 8 zoning has much more in common with the RSF 4 on the same side of the street than it does with the RMF 24. And I think it would be absolutely fair to say that that's a reasonable transition between the two zones.
 You know, the other thing that strikes me is, you know, people are talking about, well, what if this is in your neighborhood? So I live in a neighborhood where there's a duplex across the street. There's a high density apartment building on the opposite corner of me. And we still have foxes and deer and birds and wildlife and children riding their bicycles. And I'm friends with a lot of my neighbors. So I think that it's important that we don't
 assume that because people may be renters or because they are living in smaller house sizes that those are not people that we Can form relationships with kids grow up in apartment complexes, and they are safe just like they are on your street I'm so let's you know I think a really telling comment was someone said that this will change the complexion of the neighborhood And I think it's important that you consider what that means when you say stuff like that so um
 I'm just quoting a comment that was made here. Out of context, probably. No, no. Go on, Sarah. Thank you. So I think that this is an absolutely appropriate development. It's not going to destroy the character of your neighborhood.
 and the changing from RSF4 to RSF8 will not impact the requirements for stormwater drainage. You know, new construction is built to much higher standards than when your homes were built, so we actually have stormwater regulations to protect you. We have tree preservation ordinances and things that protect existing neighborhoods and help us do a better job developing in our community. So I'm going to be supporting this. Thank you.
 i know we're on the first reading right now but anyway um sloan uh yeah i'd like to thank sarah for her comments um i know a lot of people are talking about rsf4 and that this is you know a good city it is a great city but one of the things that we need to look at is what happens as as we grow is rsf4 going to work down the road so i decided to look up another city that is mostly rsf4 and that's la
 LA is 80 to 85 percent. It's land is zoned single family. And while Googling LA, I found out that there's currently a traffic jam on I-40 of 70 minutes and a traffic jam on I-10 of 75 minutes. So the traffic is coming from zoning RSF4 and then pushing these buildings out farther and farther and further out.
 So we need to look at that and where we're putting the actual buildings. We want to get them closer. This is talking about increasing by four houses per
 I agree. I wouldn't buy this house on this street if I knew I was going to turn left and go south on Crossville. I understand that. But if I was going right, I think this would be fine. I have walked this. I used to live over here and I went to the Mexican restaurant basically every football game and walked across the street. You can walk across the street. I probably wouldn't let my kids bike.
 on crossover but I would definitely be okay walking with them. Now, actual issues that I want to talk about. We do need to talk about the water. I have a house over here, a rental
 that floods and I understand that that's very important that we look at this. I drove around it and it seems like most of the flood water would actually go to crossover. But I hope we do get a chance to look at it and I assume we're not going to vote tonight. I don't want to vote tonight. I want to look at this. But looking at that drainage in a subcommittee may be a good idea to make sure that we're not going to make a mistake.
 The density or the income of a neighborhood, I want those to be diverse, but I don't want houses to flood. That's really important. So that is something I want to look at. Thank you. Okay. Mark. I did take a minute just because I wanted to refresh my memory on our drainage study. And you can see there's two different maps on there.
 One of the areas with a high incidence of reporting of flooding is Stardust Lane. I just want to mention that. And then it runs from Stardust Lane into an area across. It is a crossover, but it drains into. There's two critical areas right across from that. So I've got to get some more information because I do think that there's something critical about
 Drainage on this I I know that the drainage we have off of lovers lane We had to pay as considerable amount of money to correct the water problem when we put in the water tower and I guess if you've been around long enough you kind of live and learn and I learned something from that and that is You got to take care of it up front. So I've got to get more information, but I would encourage everyone to look at the
 on the city website the Drainage program. Let's see what the official name of this is 2018 drainage improvement plan because it does show where flooding was reported and you can tell from this from the topography and the Hydrology where we're going to have problems if we don't manage this if we have more impermeable surfaces so
 Think that this property probably is doing a lot to slow down the water and to absorb some of the volume We do know that one of the areas that is has a lot of flooding is that storage unit as well as? This on Stardust Lane, so I'm gonna say it out loud. I don't think that the density going from RSF 4 to RSF 8 is a
 just impossible to manage. I know that you don't like it. I live in Wilson Park. I know how all this goes. Our neighborhood has been assaulted by changes, but we certainly learned to live with it, but it has been. So I was president of our neighborhood association when a lot of changes occurred. It's very tough.
 But we do have this population growth and things do change. And I think really an RSF-8 is in some ways a protection if the property were appropriate as far as managing the infrastructure, the drainage, the delivery of services. But this is some pretty critical property here where it's located. Because you can go up on Lovers Lane and you know what is draining off of Lovers Lane right down through this neighborhood. So...
 i'm going to do some more research i promise i encouraged every one of you that wrote me to be here tonight to let your voice be heard i think it's very important that we keep people engaged we have to respect the neighborhood voice and i certainly do i want you to know that but i do want to look at the big picture as well so bear with me as i get more information okay thanks thank you
 Several of the people from this area have brought up the issue of the covenants that were established, I guess, when the subdivision was first built. And I think someone mentioned they went back to 1968. It is always a challenge to try and enforce things like that.
 if they have not been kept up over time. And I found that out in my own neighborhood, which was built in 1962. So it's to go back and read covenants that maybe have not been enforced, or maybe there wasn't a POA or homeowners association that kept everything operating the same way. It's hard to apply that now. I think that's just my thought on that.
 And, you know, when I think about my neighborhood and other neighborhoods in this part of Fayetteville, you know, I've seen so many changes. I've lived here my whole life, and I've seen huge changes in this community. And we just can't allow everything to stay the same. And I hate that, but I'm also excited by it at the same time because we're
 You know, because it allows new people to come into our community. And this could end up being a situation where it's not just college kids living there or transient renters. They're going to be here a couple of years. It could be someone that chooses to downsize one of their houses up the street but wants to stay in the neighborhood. And they want a smaller home, a smaller lot to take care of. It doesn't just have to be...
 The rundown rental that you we all some of you have in mind. It doesn't have to be that It could fill in for a lot of senior citizens. It could fill in with you know people Young families that just don't want don't want an acre lot. You know that that's a possibility there now and
 As far as the traffic is a big concern to me, but I can tell you there are lots and lots of houses slated to be built in Elkins. And there are homes, more affordable homes being built out on off of Highway 16 around Stonebridge Meadows. Those people have to drive into somewhere. They're probably going to take Crossover Road.
 So, so that's not just you know There's other areas outside of Fayetteville that feed on to Crossover Road and they're they're building affordable housing out there And a lot of people that work in Springdale Fayetteville, they live in Elkins. They live in Farmington They live in around the city. They don't live in the city some of them, but they work in the city so there's there's a lot of traffic that's already coming in that's coming in from outside areas and
 So, traffic is a concern to me and the drainage is a big concern because I looked at that map that Mark looked at also. And that's something that really, you know, that really worries me about this area. And I went out and looked at the side. I walked around. I got, you know, barked at by some loose dog that was running around over there. And it was really, really tranquil. The pond is really beautiful. It really is. But, yeah.
 the idea that it should stay upon forever or or not be developed at a little bit higher density I I don't really embrace that right now but I'm willing to willing to take your consideration and uh and uh look at it a little bit more detail and and I'm really worried about the drainage though so that's those are my comments okay Kyle
 Well, some of my earlier comments were interpreted as fast growth now, quick dollars now, we've got to have more people here now. And so I just wanted to clarify that a little bit. That's not a desire. That's reality. People are coming, and they are coming now. And we've got to have a place to put them. When we don't build housing for people that are coming anyway, the scarcity drives up costs.
 which also means it's driving up your property values. So we've got that tension of affordable housing and the fear of lowering property values when I think the reality works the other way. But I was also...
 on my assessment of RSF4 as unsustainable. So just here's some quick numbers. I skipped this before but I said this about a year ago and I'm gonna quickly revisit some of those numbers. Over Fayetteville's land mass, about 39% of our city is zoned to some form of single family classification. And 78% of that single family area is RSF4.
 And that comes up when you crunch the numbers to about 30% of our city with this one zoning classification. And here's how we use it. Sarah mentioned that we're looking to have a population growth of 50,000 people. And I forget the time horizon on that. But my numbers from last year said that Northwest Arkansas as a whole is adding about 32 people a day. Five of them land in Fayetteville every day.
 So there's debate about all that projected growth, but if we just sort of play it out at the RSF for standard a Conservative estimate is is 500 new housing units in a year That's what it's what you have to have to to accommodate that number of people arriving So building all of those out of the RSF for means 125 acres of land use just for a year's worth of housing and and
 Like to put a visual on that on my side of town. That's all of the currently open green space from on the south side of Mount Comfort from Interstate out to butter Bridgeport it's a pretty big swath of land in this area My best estimate is that is all of the open green space from the link the cliffs north along the
 crossover to the next kind of neighborhood housing area all the way back to the woods and the trails that we just classified as or just licensed for trail space imagine that gone in one year that's what it would take to house a year's worth of population growth in Fayetteville
 Now do that every year, year after year. That's what I mean when I say that RSF4 is not a sustainable standard for this city at our current rate of growth. Now clearly that's not the way that it goes. There's more diversity. We need to be encouraging more diversity of housing than we are and this is why.
 So at this point, I'm looking at a jump from four to eight. Yes, it's a doubling. It's also an increase of four per acre. You know, when you double a small number, you still get a small number. If we were looking at an NC, which is 10 to an RSF24 or MF24, that would be a doubling plus some, and that would frighten me.
 But here we're still looking at a small scale. Though I will thank Ms. Murray for the most kind of rational answer to my question earlier, what can we do? And thank you for recognizing that we have sort of untapped potential in some of our current zones as it is right now. You know, it's already zoned for more density than it has. This neighborhood in general is looking at acre lots instead of quarter acre lots.
 So there's also got to be a tension between what the zoning map says and what is actually there Stardust Lane may be zoned for 24 multifamily units. That's not what's there. We're not getting the benefit Housing wise out of that land so those people have got to go somewhere But all of that math out of the way. I think that I
 There's definitely a question about where the water goes. We were over here on this end of the table looking at that same map going, oh, there's some dots and some reports there, and the GIS maps don't show a whole lot of stormwater infrastructure in this area. So I hope that we will hold here until we have a chance to get a much more detailed look at where the water goes.
 But we've got to find a solution as a city for housing folks that are coming here. We can't build a wall and keep them out. Okay. Teresa. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Well, I've seen my neighborhood.
 Would say be the victim of growth largely from the university I ran on neighborhood integrity trying to retain well-established neighborhoods I You know to quote an old phrase or an Arkansas phrase. I feel your pain and and I do I
 I see this change in zoning as the gateway to your neighborhood. You have an old, charming, well-established neighborhood. And fortunately, we've started talking about the issue of that pond that functions as a retention pond. You know, we're...
 We talk about, we've been talking up here about growth and failable. Well, I'd like to talk about climate change. And so we really need to be thinking about climate change and resiliency to climate change and stormwater issues. That's something that we've got to deal with. And if we think that August or April 2017 storm was an anomaly, we're probably going to have a lot more of those. So we need to plan for storms that are bigger than what we've already experienced.
 And so I'm very concerned about the drainage. I'm also concerned about the safety of folks that are in the neighborhood. Crossover is just going to get worse. I drove around your neighborhood. It's next to impossible to turn left to go south out of there. I was there probably two or three minutes, gave up, turned right, and made a couple of other turns to get back to going south.
 So I really don't want to add any more people or more density to your neighborhood. I'd also say that when the property owner purchased that land,
 they knew what the density was. They knew it was an RSF4. And so when you purchase property, even if you want to develop it, you cannot assume that you can change that zoning. You can't make that assumption when you go in. Maybe others have, but if you're a smart business person, you cannot make that assumption that you're going to get that zoning changed. You're going to have to be able to make it profitable or workable with the zoning that was there when you purchased it.
 So these are all the concerns that I have, and I will definitely not be supporting the change of zoning when it comes to a vote, unless there's something dramatic that changes between now and when we do have the final vote. Thank you for coming, and I hope you'll continue to show up.
 um because we really need to hear from you and we need to hear from you continuously at each meeting not just one meeting i know this is a lot of time out of your day i know you have a lot of other things going on and it's clear that you love your neighborhood and you want to keep it the way it is so please come back
 and we will look at more information that comes forward. And if you find more information, please bring it to our attention at the next meeting. Thank you. Okay. Sarah. One of the things about zoning is that when did we actually apply zoning to Fayetteville? I mean, we had a little here, a little there. You know, there are areas in town where
 When they were built, there probably wasn't any zoning. You could have had a house in the historic district and had pigs in the backyard or cattle running around because it was that open. So zoning gets changed all the time. It's not uncommon, and it's not unrealistic to –
 Buy a piece of property and then look at it and think well Maybe I want to do something different with it and to ask for rezoning. So that's that's not that unusual because like areas where this was built and
 were this Inwood and Whippoorwill and Lovers Lane, I'm not sure if that was ever zoned anything other than agriculture before the subdivision went in. So if we were only gonna keep everything zoned what it was, we would have no houses there. What was it, one house per acre? One house per acre for agricultural land. And you might have chicken houses on Lovers Lane instead of houses.
 So zoning gets changed all the time. I do want to ask, and I see Sonia has requested to speak after me, but I would like to hold this at this reading, but I want to hear her comments first. So take my hand. Sure. Yes, so I just want to say thanks to the, I think I counted 15 people who spoke against the rezoning.
 Brandon, Ray, Dub, Rick, Ann, Mr. Justice, Chris, Keith, I didn't get all their names, Eileen. It's a long night and it's important that you're here. You elect us to be your voice.
 And that is what I see as my primary responsibility. Yes, we have to balance growth. Yes, we know that a lot of people are coming in. Yes, we know that we have all of these things that we need to deal with. I ran because one of the core things I believe is that we're not getting listened to.
 And I don't understand that, okay? Now, we have to balance that, right, with growth. Well, where do we put people? One of my ideas was that we need to move density towards 71 business because that could be a potential corridor for a lot of public transportation, rapid transit, okay? There's amenities. That's the other thing. Now, y'all are in a kind of an interesting space because there are, you know, the Walgreens is there and there's...
 penguin heads and their stuff, but it's not real easy. And someone said you don't have sidewalks, I think. It's not, to me, density needs to happen where there are amenities, easy amenities. You go down, I lived in Queens, New York. There's sidewalks and there's retail downstairs. That's not your neighborhood, okay? I know, I live in Ward 1. I'd go to
 beat penguin eds and saturday mornings so i'm i'm not going to support the rezoning and i and i just i'm so glad you're all here and to be listened to i got 20 maybe 15 other emails of people that weren't able to attend so i know this is a big deal tomorrow's another work day i will not be supporting the reason okay yes thank you mayor um well i'm not ready to say if i would support it or not
 i'm grateful that we're going to be holded i did want to um i did want to ask maybe a favor uh and and that is um that we keep um the issues that are being raised in front of us very clear um as council members and as people who are have a responsibility to lead the discussion and to keep it on track and there are a couple of things that i heard tonight um
 that I think need to be examined a little more closely, but perhaps not in the way that has been suggested or in the manner that is expected. For instance, we've heard concern expressed multiple times tonight about the relative safety of children who might occupy these homes, if more, to be constructed. And to that I would ask, does Setter Street need to be evacuated?
 Because it's constructed in much the same manner that is as that as what's proposed if we as a council Presume that was proposed is unsafe for children Then we are obligated to evacuate other areas in the city that would Are constructed in a similar pattern if we think that that suggestion is as absurd as it sounds and
 then the relative safety of children is probably not a core issue with this proposal. Not to trivialize it, I'm a parent too. We also heard tonight that multiple times, both from the audience and a couple of council members, I think have rephrased it.
 that there's some concern about the profit the applicant might make if the rezoning is granted, and there's a suggestion that there is sufficient profit to be made if the property is not rezoned. To me, that argument is neither here nor there. I would only ask if other neighborhoods in the city were constructed without profit.
 We tend to have an immaculate conception theory about our own neighborhoods, but every neighborhood in this city was built for profit and was built to maximize profit.
 So again, I don't think that that is a core issue for the city to take up, although it is one, I think, of grave concern. I don't think it distinguishes this project from other neighborhoods, older neighborhoods or newer proposals. The matter of the pond is something that I think I'm going to think more about today.
 And I have one question to help me think about that over the next two weeks. It's a question for staff and the question is if the rezoning is denied, is there anything that will prevent the pond from being filled in and a house constructed over the top of it? No. That will help me think about that over the next couple of weeks.
 The other thing, which is maybe the biggest thing that I'm concerned about, and I'm glad it was raised, I'm eager for this discussion, and I think it's going to be a discussion that we have forever. You know, kids who are my age are going to be on the business end of climate change for the rest of our lives. The rest of our lives. So it's something that I take very seriously.
 very seriously and it's a fact well studied that when we look at land use patterns, transportation has an effect on climate that dwarfs the effect from home sizes or home efficiency. It's well documented.
 that you can put the largest McMansion in the middle of a city where someone can replace just three of their drives with walking and their carbon footprint will be much smaller by about a factor of three, according to the EPA, than someone living in an efficiency apartment in a neighborhood that requires them to drive to all of their destinations.
 So these things are definitely interconnected, but it is a fact that we have to get in front of the way neighborhoods change over time. And I don't say this in a way that is intended to trivialize concerns about growth or is intended to hold up growth as something that we need to bow down in front of. I raise these points only because they're facts. They're just facts.
 and we have to concern ourselves with all of them. If we presume that commercial amenities precedes housing development, we're wrong. That is not true. That is not how cities grow. It is a fact that housing precedes commercial development. And, you know, we know this instinctually as well as –
 uh... and it's also borne out by deep research we hear all the time retail follows rooftops that is that fact memorialized in our economic development culture uh... housing comes first and the way housing is arranged is really important for climate for climate issues it must be more compact for climate issues to be addressed otherwise
 If we adopt a policy that favors less dense housing or single-family exclusive zoning, I'm not against single-family construction. I'm against single-family exclusive zoning, two different things. If we adopt a policy that favors exclusive zoning for single-family, we are deciding that we will not solve climate issues for this city. That's what we're deciding. Okay. Mark. I give...
 One thing that I'm thinking about as far as the water in the pond, one house is not going to have as much impermeable surface unless it's a mighty big house than eight houses. That's what I would balance that out with. I mean, I guess you could have a really large house the size of eight houses, but I don't think that that's realistic. I just wanted to mention that. Don? Don?
 Mayor, I'm going to shamelessly plug a project and ask actually everyone in this room because this is the perfect discussion to talk about. That is we're updating our 2030 master plan and I think one of the challenges that you stated in your State of the City was that we are in the beginning stages of a true community debate about...
 density infill new urbanism development and neighborhood neighborhood protection neighborhood integrity whatever those words are that we want to use as elected officials and as neighborhoods and we continue to have this debate and yet we are about to embark on this project
 That is really where our citizen and your networks and your network of people need to engage. Because here is the factual information that has come up tonight that comes up over and over and over. We are growing. We are growing. The numbers that Kyle gave are the numbers that the regional planning has given the city to plan for in the future. And we have limited land.
 We have land that is bordered on the west by Farmington, the south by Greenland, the west by Elkins and Goshen, the north by Springdale, northwest towards Taneytown. We have a resource that is limited that we have to decide highest and best use.
 We do have demographics that have changed. Sarah is telling the truth when she says our average age is lower, our number of households with children are less, our population is aging. We have more aging individuals who are looking for smaller homes as they age in terms of retiring. We have all of the facts that are being talked about tonight. Renting versus owning.
 good neighbor aspects. We have dialogues in the city that a renter is maybe less than desirable. And I'm going to use myself because I've lived on Mount Nord in a great big wonderful house in downtown Fayetteville and today I'm a renter. And I think I'm a good neighbor either way.
 and now there's neighborhoods i want to protect if i was in it and there's times i wanted to live in higher density and our community is having this debate continually and we are really going to have this debate in 2019 as we update this plan we have affordable housing and we've heard tonight about supply and demand determine price that's not something we say that's economics
 The less supply we have, the more the price goes up. When you talk about these cities where it's become unaffordable, it's because there isn't supply for the demand, and that's a real discussion. We have green space needs. When we talk about if you want to get scared, go out and look at an aerial layover of this entire northwest region for the last 40 years and watch the amount of impervious surface that is being put down.
 It is increasing at a dramatic rate. And that's why, and then as a community, I think we have to decide if we're going to continue to have neighborhoods that have one and two acre and three acre lots. Because we have them today. I mean, it's just the reality. We have them today.
 we have hillsides we've had discussions about stream sides we've had discussions about water quality which is required for all of us to live in stormwater runoff and we're having a very discussion today about stormwater utility because of the impact that our growth is having on us from a water quality and runoff perspective these are all real discussions and what i love about seeing tonight in my my plea to the neighborhood people that are here is that
 You've got to engage in this process because your feedback is important. And you've got to tell your friends and your coworkers and people that are here because it's a community discussion. And to our council, it's your network because while you're sitting in front of them today, I've been with them when people are sitting in front of them that want more affordable options, that want more density, that want to be able to walk places.
 I've been at the state legislature this session, and we just had a bill debated at the state level that approved the ability to test driverless cars in the state. That technology is coming. We just approved it to have companies test it for delivery services, autonomous vehicles. I was trying to think of the word. It was...
 in some ways exciting and some ways scary as it could be to listen to this debate at this level because we have a national retailer in our market that is competing with another national retailer called the Amazon who's already testing this in 20 states it is going to happen in Arkansas and the two cities they talked about doing this in are Bentonville and Fayetteville
 We're seeing changes in our community, and these are all very real. And so it requires our development community, our people who are buying property. We've heard these arguments about property rights. A person has a right to develop their property. Then I heard a state legislator say, well, you have the right to swing your fist until you hit my face. So your property right impacts my property right.
 and they cross over. And this debate about where we want to grow and build, so I'm just saying this to you because every meeting I've been to, and I've missed a few recently because of my family situation, but every meeting I've been to when we talk about zoning, these exact same issues come up, and the facts are real.
 We are growing at that level. We have less land. We have a demographic change. We have traditional neighborhoods that are feeling encroached upon. And this debate, when we go to have it in 2030 and I walk in the room and I see 11 people and seven of them are staff, that doesn't give us the kind of feedback for this dialogue.
 So I'm gonna shamelessly plug tonight. The mayor does this all the time, trying to get it, but we need people engaged in this 2030 conversation. And you've heard a variety of opinions and all of these items are very real. So I want to re-engage you, not only for this item, but if you will look for that and help us get that word out and participate in it and encourage other neighborhoods to do it.
 And the council is doing that constantly with people because there are people talking to them about not having places to live. I mean, that's real also. And so we have to, we don't want to become Washington where we talk about where we're different. We want to come to a solution where we have consensus in how we meet those needs as a community. That's what Fayetteville is about. That's the one thing I see that's different when I'm in Little Rock about how we include everyone.
 so come out we'll post it everywhere we can but please engage in that okay anybody else on that i guess we'll leave it on the first reading well moving right along to number four an ordinance to rezone i do appreciate everybody coming out tonight i really do and uh we'll be back here in two weeks okay number four an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zone of petition rzn 18-6523 for approximately 0.99 acres located
 located at 504 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial Line Industrial to R-I-U Residential Intermediate Urban and DG Downtown General. Kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions of Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo
 from i-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to riu residential intermediate urban and dg downtown general section two that the city council or the city of fable are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay Gar yeah Mayor uh in the interest of time I'll be brief um this property it was part of the 1870 Platte
 But it wasn't part of the downtown plan, so in a sense, it's an edge property, edge of the downtown that's kind of left over. And it is now bounded by the Ridgeback Greenway and Tanglewood Branch and Prairie Street, and it's zoned I-1. The surrounding properties are still a remnant of I-1 to the north and northwest residential
 and then DG, downtown general to the south. The revised request, originally the request was to go to RIU for the entire parcel, the four parcels, but the revised request is to go to DG for the two parcels up front, Perry Street.
 Issues that we discussed at Planning Commission access, of course the proximity to the Cultural Arts Corridor and its potential for the future. Specifically wanting to make sure that there's a retention of crafts and arts, small scale crafts in this area. And as well as that remnant zoning to the north, which changes, the status changes if this is rezoned residential.
 Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval of the revised request. At the agenda committee there was a question for the applicant, which was would the applicant be agreeable to downtown general for the all four parcels? And I forwarded an email today saying that he prefers the Planning Commission's recommendation.
 That is happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant is here. Okay My name is Mike Bowman and I live at 414 North Walnut and I'm here to answer any questions Okay, what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Yes, thank you mayor I'm gonna recuse from the discussion of vote because I have property very very close to this and the decision will directly impact us No questions
 Okay. What public comment do we have on this one? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Kyle. Okay. So here we are. Sloan. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I'm going to get the computer to work out. We wish we had time.
 i need to put the motion in a second back in again okay who made the motion i did all right i suck it in okay all right are you getting anything now okay yes yes yes no yes no yes
 There's only four votes in favor. It requires six votes to pass and therefore the motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading has failed. Yes, okay. Well, there you are. Here we are. So it's left on first. Any other, I see, well, okay. Just want to voice the reason for that.
 i'm going to go out on a limb here and make a more concrete firm stand than i i think i normally do on on issues like this i like to to think contextually about every request but i'm going to have a very hard time supporting any rezoning in or adjacent to a proposed arts corridor that does not allow for arts production facilities
 and I just want to leave the applicant with that bit of feedback about my personal stance on this one as you take two weeks to first to discuss it again okay Mark oh I'm I've done my thing sorry okay I didn't push my button sir I would second Council member Smith's comments and I
 have concerns that the requested zoning is not of the appropriate density or use for a parcel adjacent to the Cultural arts corridor and that we need to be thinking much bigger here. Okay, dope So we leave it on the first reading and look at it in two weeks All right number five
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 19-6525 for approximately 2.37 acres located at 509 East 15th Street from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville and Arkansas hereby change the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and Illegal Description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department Agenda's Memo from RMF 24, Residential Multifamily per Acre to I-1, Heavy, Commercial, and Line Industrial, and Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville and Arkansas hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Gar. Yeah, this property is located south of 15th Street, west of Morningside, east of College. Surrounding uses are church across the street. You can see part of this property on HBO occasionally I understand. There's an office building to the west and there are industrial uses of dairy on both
 The property is squeezed in between industrial zoning on two sides. It's RMF 24 to the south. City Plan 2030 designates the area for industrial development. No major issues were identified, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. Any questions we have from council on this? This is the applicant here.
 and hooper with bates and associates uh answer any questions you guys might have okay what questions do we have for the applicant or staff on this i have just a quick one for garner we don't in the year i've been up here we've not done a lot with industrial zoning can you just kind of where's the the cutoff between an i1 and an i2 like what what are we talking about here up to and including
 The official title of this is heavy commercial light industrial. So the intent of the district is not to allow what used to be smokestack industrial or heavy industrial uses, but light manufacturing. But if they have internal impacts like air pollution, they wouldn't be allowed. External impacts, I think. Okay. Theresa? I've got another question for Garner.
 Could you, I'm sorry if I missed this, what is to the east and the west of this property? To the west is, immediately to the west, there's a foundation and it's an office building. I forget the name of the foundation, but they're using it as an office. Augustine Foundation. Augustine? Augustine Foundation. Okay. And then the dairy is located there.
 at this location. Right. Okay. Thank you. Shalom. Am I correct that more than half of this is in a flood zone? Pardon me? More than half of this is in a flood zone? You're correct. The east half is in the flood zone, but I think you could make a case that industrial is actually more appropriate for property that's prone to flooding in terms of our
 standards for how we treat the floodplain would be the same, but going from residential to industrial might get people from living in flood-prone areas. Are there any rules for chemicals and flood zones or anything of that nature? Any environmental concerns? I am not sure. I'm not sure. What's the question?
 Are there any rules about what chemicals can be stored in floodplains? Any concerns there, state rules? At this point there's no manufacturing going on. Can you please come to the mic so the public can hear you at home? Roger Leacy, I'm the agent for the owner of the property. I live in Ward 1 and I sold this property to Les Rogers.
 a part of a It's part of the agreement when I sold him his his half of the parcel next to it The property line went halfway through this property. It was Joe Kelly's property that that is on there. You see the line that's the road going back to the going back there that is a sewer line that goes there the the property line that
 went over as I won all the way over to that line of that property and the remainder of that property was considered RMF 24 which it is also considered to the south of the property
 The floodplain goes all the way across the bout the bout of the bottom of that in the south of that property and there's two sewer lines 40-inch in a 35 inch sewer line going across the property on the RMF 24 down there It's really kind of
 One parcel with two different zone zoning things left when the property line was moved to give Joe Kelly back all of his property and that was the condition that that that
 He bought it for which he bought it because the property line was a dispute the bank sold it to less and said you Resolved the problem with Joe Kelly and what he did was he moved the property line back over to the branch between the two And now you have one parcel with half of it RMF 24 and half of it I won and so what we're trying to do here at this point is make it all I won and
 Something very unique about this particular property is that it is located into a city-designated opportunity zone, and it is also included in the Small Business Administration
 HUBZone for guarantees on small business loans to buy that. So it's a unique opportunity for an investor to invest in the property and delay capital gains over a period of time. It makes it very valuable on
 and I-1 so somebody can do it. The west half of it is in a flood zone but could very easily be used as a parking lot for a shop or something going on the east side close to the property line over there. That's basically the vision that we have for the property.
 Okay, yeah, I mean that'd be great if the flood zone is parking instead of people or chemicals. So, thanks. Okay, Kyle. I still think we answered Sloane's question about whether there are additional environmental regulations in a flood zone that prevent potential contaminants in an industrial process.
 I don't know about contaminants that the I'm not sure I understand the question so we're talking about an industrial zoning that could lots of Manufacturing process and even even if the plan is to put a parking lot there We don't consider the specifics of the development at a land use stage So I think it's a valid question to to wonder in this flood zone area
 What additional protections are there for water quality issues? And you may not have the answer to that. I'm not sure who the right person to ask that question to is. They would be subject to both our water detention requirements, be subject to the large-scale development process, as well as our water quality standards. So both of those will kick in.
 And just as an aside, you're often asked this kind of what other information would be useful in a report and the opportunity zones are a new designation that we don't always remember to think about because they haven't been presented and it would be helpful when future, especially commercial and industrial zones come up in an opportunity zone for that part of the report. Excellent point. Well, we'll add it to the checklist. Thank you.
 I just happen to have an article on Opportunity Zones in the latest issue of Realtor Magazine. I'll be glad to submit it to the council for your review. Thank you. That's not been a habit of ours, but I think it should be one to consider. Okay. No, that's all right. Do we have any more questions? Okay. What public comment do we have? All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 I'm sorry, I don't know what's going on with the screen right now either. No, I don't know what's going on.
 yeah okay i'm with you now thank you sorry so i i just want to kind of follow up on um maybe some concerns we have if there was an industrial operation and some of the permitting requirements um is there a way to find that out i don't know if staff would do that or if the applicant would do that because you know that would be important to know um i think or at least i would like to know more about that
 Considering, there's two things to consider on this. Number one is that the whole parcel itself is about 2.3 acres. Half of it's in a flood zone, so the other half of whatever's gonna be on there is gonna be on about a .7 of an acre or about an acre, and the rest of it is gonna be, there's not a whole lot that you can do. Well, I'm sure you can start doing a lot of cooking and use a lot of chemicals in that,
 but my experience is if you even if you put a transmission shop into that position or automobile repair shop in that in that on that location the environmental requirements
 already in place to keep to keep the walk to keep it from going into the Into the water the water the water and taking care of water the flood zone itself is It's never flooded. I remember when Joe Kelly telling me whenever I sold it sold his property. It's never flooded over there That's a it's a ditch that has been expanded by FEMA in 2007 to
 expand flood zones when there was an extensive flooding in St. Louis and New Orleans. But as far as contamination from that, there are plenty of
 FEMA, not FEMA, what am I trying to do, safety, hazardous waste regulations that would cover that, whether it was in this area close to a flood zone or whether it's over on Township. And in fact, I have a property over on Township that is a form, that is a,
 transmission shop, the transmission shop, and the flood zone is behind it, and there's parking, and there's parking on it. There's been no contamination from that, from that use of the land.
 So what I think I'm hearing is that you would have to go through a permitting process with like that like Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality or EPA if you were going to put put something like a transmission shop there Is that what you're saying? I think it would have to be it would go through code enforcement code enforcement in in in the city and AEDQ does have some Arkansas environmental quality does have some requirements for that
 that you would have to comply with. I guess it's back to the old question of, do we modify state laws? We don't. If you're gonna put an impoundment lot in that area for the storage of vehicles, then you would have to comply with AEDQ requirements to make sure that you don't have runoff. And if you do, capturing the runoff and processing it. Okay, thank you.
 Okay, Sarah. Thank you. I think the proposed rezoning request is absolutely reasonable and fits really well with the context of the neighborhood.
 I would feel a lot better about this if we were presented with a bill of assurance prohibiting use units 27 and use unit 18 which are underground storage tanks and gasoline service stations and I think that would alleviate a lot of my concerns about water pollution of course we're not allowed to ask for a bill of assurance one would just have to be offered to us.
 But again, my primary concerns here are use unit 27, which is the underground storage tanks, which I would really like to see us strip out of the I-1 zoning, and then that use unit 18 of the gasoline service stations, because those would often have buried fuel tanks, which I think could be very problematic this close to a floodplain. Thank you. Okay. Mark. Regulation 2 from ADEQ is what manages all of the industrial...
 And we also have a part of our code that is matched up with that. You're on water, sir. You'll get to see. Okay. Can I?
 let me just respond back i i know about regulation too but i just didn't know about the industrial portion of it so i think it's all covered okay thank you i think you all can keep in mind too this is very close to the south industrial park which borders the west fork so uh we're not strangers to making sure that manufacturing does not pollute our waters deal okay okay
 Sarah. If it's okay with the rest of the council, I'd like to just leave this on the first reading and give the applicant some time to, and us some time to research the water implications of this. Absolutely. We'll just leave that one on there too. Well, moving right along. Number six. We'll just reprint this. We'll just reprint it next week. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 an ordinance an ordinance to waive the requirement form of competitive bidding into approved payment in the amount of seven thousand five hundred ninety dollars four cents to temple shalom northwest arkansas and twenty seven thousand nine hundred twenty six dollars and seventy three cents to service master by quality restoration for a sewer damage claim at 699 north same avenue kit
 Whereas on January 10th, 2019, roots in a sewer line caused a backup at Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas, impacting two-thirds of the building. And whereas service master by quality restoration was contacted to immediately complete the emergency sewer mitigation work at a cost of $27,926.73 because the time required to obtain quotes or bids would have caused even more damage to the property.
 And whereas the City solicited quotes for restoration of the property, and ServiceMaster by Quality Restoration submitted the lowest quote in the amount of $25,511.32, and whereas Temple Shalom has requested reimbursement for personal contents and plumbing services in the total amount of $2,078.72,
 And whereas Temple Shalom has insurance coverage that will pay $20,000 toward a damage claim, leaving $7,590.04 to be paid to the claimant. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances and make competitive bidding not feasible or practical.
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes a payment to service master by quality restoration in the amount of $27,926.73 for the mitigation work
 and a payment to temple shalom of northwest arkansas in the amount of seven thousand five hundred and ninety dollars and four cents for costs related to property restoration replacement of personal property and plumbing services not covered by insurance for sewer damage claim at 699 north sang avenue okay didn't you marry council lucky meeting to have this on absolutely um
 on january 10th of this year roots and sewer line caused a backup at temple shalom with northwest arkansas at 699 north saying and kit gave details of how we proceeded it was considered the mitigation work was considered emergency and so three bids were not obtained so that further damage to the building would be prevented
 The emergency mitigation work included removing baseboards, sheetrock, insulation, drying out all wetted areas, and cleaning and disinfecting floors. Service Master also provided an estimate for the restoration to the building in the amount of $25,511.32 to be paid by the claimant. This restoration estimate was the lowest of three bids.
 The restoration will include drywall installation, baseboard and cabinet repairs, replacement of insulation and painting the walls and other affected areas. Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas had personal contents valued at $1,921.22 that were destroyed in the incident. And they also requested reimbursement on an invoice from John Reed Plumbing in the amount of $157.50. Okay.
 Tipo Shalom's insurance company agreed to pay $20,000 towards the claim, leaving a balance of $7,590.04 to be paid to the claimant upon city council approval. And this was at the Water and Sewer Committee on February 12th, and they voted to forward it here. Okay. You want to add anything, Mark?
 Well, it was forwarded here with a recommendation for approval and it was unanimous. So it's already done. We might as well pay for it, right? And Mark, you've serviced Master many times before, right? That's why you called him up? Yes, we do try to rotate at times if we can for other available companies. We also use ServPro. But part of the decision of who to call is who can best respond.
 We've used a smaller company called Northwest Restoration previously, and they are not always able to respond because it is a smaller company. So it plays into our decision of people that will be able to respond and how quickly they can respond. Because in situations like this, the longer you take care of the problem, the worse it is. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay.
 Uh-huh. I bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to approve a payment in the amount of seven thousand five hundred and ninety dollars and four cents to Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas and 27,926 dollars and 73 cents to service master by quality restoration
 uh for a sewer damage claim at 699 north sang avenue okay sarah move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading oh second there we go yeah motion second to go third and finally sundry please call the run yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to waive the requirement of formal competitive bidding and to approve payment in the amount of $7,590.04 to Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas and $27,926.73 to Service Master by Quality Restoration for a sewer damage claim at 699 North Sang Avenue. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? All right. Senators, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you. Well, number seven, an Orange Swig competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $87,495 plus tax from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, DBA Riggs Power Systems for the purchase and installation of a replacement biofuel system for the Gen Set electrical power generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Kip.
 Whereas J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, doing business as Riggs Power Systems, is the region's certified Caterpillar dealer and has exclusive experience servicing the Nolan Facilities Caterpillar brand Genset electrical power generator. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby determines that because of arkansas code annotated 19-11-203 fort subsection 14 subsection ee
 The repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, unquote, does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore weighs competitive bidding and accepts a quote of $87,495 plus any applicable taxes from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Power Systems.
 for the purchase and installation of a replacement bi-fuel system for the Genset electrical power generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and authorizes the payment of that amount. The Nolan Treatment Facility utilizes a 2,000 kilowatt Caterpillar brand Genset system for emergency power and load shedding management during the summer season.
 Recent inspections found that the unit's bi-fuel system, which allows the Genset to operate through a blending of natural gas and diesel fuel, is inoperative and needs replacement. The Genset is nearly 15 years old and the current bi-fuel components are obsolete and replacement parts are not available. A new bi-fuel system is available through Riggs Power Systems of Springdale. It is a retrofit bi-fuel control system specifically tailored for compatibility with the Caterpillar Genset systems.
 Installation of the biofuel retrofit kit will regain operation of the Genset's biofuel capability while avoiding purchase of an entirely new Genset unit. Additionally, the biofuel retrofit will include updated fuel monitoring technology to maximize the ratio of natural gas to diesel fuel consumption.
 Biofuel operation of the facility's Genset reduces greenhouse emissions from decreased diesel fuel combustion and shortens return on investment as natural gas is comparatively less expensive than diesel. Based on historic Genset operation, it's been projected that upgraded biofuel system, which is used especially for the load shedding management, will avoid an estimated $30,000 of diesel fuel consumption per year.
 Staff recommends a bid waiver with Riggs Power Systems as they are the region's certified Caterpillar dealer and service representatives, and they have exclusive experience servicing the Nolan Facilities Genset System. Riggs Power Systems recently submitted a quote of $87,495 for purchase and installation of a GTI bi-fuel system.
 This was heard at Water and Sewer Committee on February 12th, and it was unanimously voted to forward it to city council. A rousing vote, I take it, Mark. I tell you what, if you've never seen this piece of equipment, you might want to run out there. No, it really is impressive. But once we get our solar array in, who cares? We're certainly working on that, as we all do.
 Do we have any questions or anything? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Well, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Yes, sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I'll second that. Well, we have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Robin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Church. Yes. The pair. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Smith says yes, too.
 We're cutting you off on this one. We'll just plug you in there. Right. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $87,495 plus applicable taxes from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, doing business as Riggs Power Systems for the purchase and installation of a replacement bi-fuel system for the Genset electrical power generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Okay. Mark. Okay.
 i mean we suspend the rules and go to the next reading third reading second we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $87,495 plus applicable taxes from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Power Systems for the purchase and installation of a replacement bi-fuel system for the Genset electrical power generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. What final comments do we have from the council? Senator, would you please call the vote?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. We've been good here. Number eight, an ordinance waived competitive bidding to accept a repair quote of $140,452.33 plus public taxes from Automated Engineering to repair the four agitated gearboxes for the
 Paul or Nolan wastewater treatment facility kit whereas Formal sealed bidding is not necessary for the repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote and whereas automatic engineering has taken apart and examined for agitator gear boxes boxes and Determined that repair of these gear boxes would cost 140 thousand four hundred fifty two dollars and thirty three cents plus taxes and
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and 2
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14-EE, the repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives formal competitive bidding and accepts automatic engineering's repair quote of $140,452.33 plus any applicable taxes and authorizes the payment of that amount. Okay. All right. Okay.
 My name's not up there. The Nolan Treatment Facility has 16 aeration mixers in the biological basins for supplying dissolved oxygen to the process. And in early 2018, four gearboxes and two mixers were removed and rebuilt to extend their life.
 Recently, four additional aerator mixers were pulled for disassembly, inspection, and repair proposals. The gearbox units were shipped to Automatic Engineering in Tulsa for this service as they have been used in recent years, and they submitted an estimate of $140,452.33 plus applicable taxes for the repairs. Staff recommends completion of the repairs of the four gearboxes.
 And because it was necessary to have the repair facility disassemble the units to determine the extent of hidden and unknown damage to equipment already purchased, a bid waiver and or formal seal bidding is not necessary according to the Arkansas law that Kit referenced. And this was also heard at the Water and Sewer Committee on February 12th.
 I take it it was a unanimous vote. It was a unanimous vote to bring this for approval. And that, my friends, is about $260,000 that we went through the other night. Okay. We're going through tonight. Yeah, but how much are the new ones? They probably cost a lot more, right? It would have been probably $400,000. No, this is the way you do it. Showing good stewardship of the taxpayers' dollars. That's right. You know me, I'm going to go down that road. The new ones are prettier.
 Are they? What color are they? It's not worth that extra money. What public comment do we have on this rousing subject? None? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I move that this suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Objective, Katie. Yes. Rogan. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And to organize the way of competitive bidding and to accept a repair quote of $140,452.33 plus applicable taxes from Automatic Engineering to repair four agitator gearbox boxes for the Paul R. Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Okay, Sloan. I move to go to the third and final reading. And Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. So I'm going to let you please go to the roll.
 I think I just screwed it up. It's all right. Okay. It's already done. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 all right here we go an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to accept a repair quote of 140 452.33 plus Apple taxes from automatic engineering to repair four agitator gear bar but gearboxes for the Paul R Nolan wastewater treatment facility okay what final comments do we have from the council on this okay something would you please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right number nine a resolution to prove the attached 15-year contract for sanitary sewer service between the cities of west fork and federal and which federal will accept and treat west fork west fork sewage in our nolan wastewater plant mayor i've been
 contract for five years. I sent my first potential contract to West Fork in 2014.
 And they have been struggling to fix their inflow and infiltration problem that caused them to overflow into the West Fork numerous times, which obviously we don't like because that is our water supply source. They have been working with the state natural resources division, and they've been getting a lot of help from them and have been working very hard to get their infiltration and inflow under control.
 So they have now repaired their collection system enough that they are now in a position where they're going to be able to send us their flow, their sewage, and this contract will require that they build
 and pay for the sewer main and the pump station to get it to us to our collection area. It'll go to the Paul R. Nolan wastewater plant. I want to call your attention to one of our whereas clauses, which is the very last one. Whereas prying to agreeing to accept West Fork's wastewater for treatment
 Fayetteville must ensure that accepting this additional wastewater does not place a financial burden on Fayetteville's customers and citizens For which they do not receive a corresponding benefit We certainly wanted to help West Fork But at the same time we want to be very careful and that it was not Disadvantaging us and in fact listening to our experts here in our water and wastewater division and
 The flow that we will receive from them I think in the summertime is actually beneficial to our plant and I went and let you kind of maybe explain why but the most important reason is to protect Beaver Lake and we're being able to do it without really any additional cost to our citizens and so that's why I think this is a good contract.
 I just want to add a comment while Mark comes up that this is something that was Supported by Beaver Water District our water provider obviously because the impact and improvements on the lake water quality It's also something encouraged to us by Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality because of the challenges that have taken place in the city of West Fork with their treatment facilities and I
 I think I can proudly say that the city of Fayetteville is one of the strongest performing wastewater recovery facilities in the state. And so it gives us the ability to really drastically improve the West Fork of the White River. So the city of West Fork currently owns and operates its complete wastewater collection system.
 and their treatment facility needs major improvements and it's more economical for them to pay the City of Fayetteville to accept, treat and discharge their sewage collected by West Fork. The City of Fayetteville's treatment Nolan plant has sufficient capacity to accept and treat the wastewater from West Fork, which is estimated at 150,000 gallons per day.
 West Fork will be responsible for constructing a sewer pumping station and all piping and conveyance facilities required to deliver wastewater from West Fork to the point of connection to Fayetteville's sewer collection system. The City of Fayetteville will operate the lift station and maintain a flow meter in the station that will record the volume of sewage being pumped to Fayetteville. In order for the design and construction activities to commence, the City of West Fork must first enter into a formal agreement with the City of Fayetteville.
 by signing a sewer service agreement with Fayetteville and to incorporate the city of Fayetteville's pretreatment ordinance into their sewer use ordinance. And they've already acted on this agreement and it comes to you for your action tonight. I've got some recent numbers on the amount of flow that we'll get from West Fork. It will increase what we get on a...
 average basis of 2.2% so it's a very small effect on what we're doing and all the sewage that comes from West Fork is residential so it's a low strength sewage and so it will not be a problem for our process at all. This was heard at Water and Sewer Committee on February 12th and it was a unanimous vote for it here. Teresa.
 I just have one quick question mark. I think this is great I commend you all for all the work that you've that's gone into this. I know it's taken a long time After I'm assuming we're gonna pass this this resolution how long before West Fork actually taps into Fayetteville's sewer line their construction projects are expected to take a year
 But before they can start the construction, they have to secure easements. And there's, I think they said, 17 properties they'll have to get easements from. So it will be quite a while before we actually start receiving their sewage. And we don't have an estimated time frame from them on that. Nice. Thank you.
 Just a clarifying question are we taking ownership by any of the infrastructure involved or receive the sewage or we merely Receiving the sewage and processing it. We're merely receiving it we will take over operation of the lift station when it's completed and That will be our only investment in it is is running that that pump station. I
 So unlike Farmington where we own infrastructure, this is more like the Elkins where we have a mass meter and are actually taking items in. We wanted control of this lift station because we've learned from our relationship with other cities that if they are not maintained, then we have other issues, and so that's the reason that it's structured the way that it is. Thank you. Occasionally we talk about...
 permitting issues with nutrients and our effluent and how hard it is to to meet reduction requirements when you're already doing such a good job of keeping it low do we get any sort of mitigation credits or other consideration from adq for taking on a neighboring town's problem no okay worth worth asking we get a gold star in our permanent record
 we remind them when we have discussions with them but there is no uh credit yes we've had some pretty intense discussions okay Teresa oh okay okay would someone like to make a motion to pass the yeah Mark uh I move that we pass this resolution second we have a motion to second to pass resolution any final comments to the council okay it's been a while
 All right, Summons, please call the roll. Eddie? Yes. Morgan? Yes. Yes. Kurt? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Well, that concludes our business.
 it's not even 10 o'clock we're doing great it's not even 10 we might as well keep going you don't have to worry about the mayor he just catches the second wind by this time usually the chief staff can attest to that one and we get up early together too so phone calls okay what announcements do we have all right mayor a couple of announcements and these are just for citizens that are planning about things that they might have typically accessed that are closed for um
 maintenance, renovation, replacement, et cetera. So first there's LED light installation taking place at Wilson Park on the tennis courts. It started yesterday on March the 4th. There will be no lights available on the court for play from March 4th through the March 13th while we make that change replacement. So if you're planning to play tennis, play during the daytime hours for that period of time.
 Also, we just we did a press release on this but we want to say this to you in case you get any phone calls on it. The city had contracted for the surveying of all of our streets if you'll remember for our overlay planning and program.
 This is done by an outfit that specifically drives an outfitted white van very slowly through all of the streets and neighborhoods. And they shared with us that often citizens will call and complain to their elected officials, their police department, that there's this mysterious white van. This isn't the CIA? This is not. We're not spying on anything but the road.
 the pavement and this is also not someone casing your neighborhoods we have on our website information about this and a photo of what this van looks like so that it can be shared in case you get that call just you might refer them and make sure that is not the laser road surface tester that will be operating in our community
 Do we have like a city logo magnet we could stick on the side of their van so people know? I don't know but I can ask that question. That's a good point. Additionally, the spring cleanups have been set and those dates are also on the website under the bulky waste cleanups.
 All cleanups are from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. They're on Saturdays. The dates are March 30th, April 6th, April 27th, and May 4th. The ones at the end are coordinated or typically around as we get to the end of the school year where people might be doing cleanup or also in our spring periods when people might be doing cleanups at their home or in their neighborhoods. Okay.
 They are located by ward in each item, but you're not restricted to the ward in which you live in. Those four dates and what we take is on the website under the bulky waste cleanup sites. But again, March 30th, April 6th, 27th, and May 4th. Okay. Anything else?
 I will be leaving Saturday for Washington, D.C. to the National League of Cities. I serve on the Human Development Committee, which are charged right now, we're looking at issues of climate change. We'll be looking at workforce training and living wages, immigration reform, and common sense gun laws. And this, with this group there, they are cutting edge stuff, anyway.
 So they assigned me to that committee, so we will be giving a few reports on some of the things that we're doing here as well. Okay, I don't believe I have anything else. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.