I would like to call the City Council meeting of March 15th, 2016 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. Latour. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Marsh. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have denied under the Mayor's announcement of proclamation of recognition. City Council meeting presentation reports and discussion items. We have the nominating committee report. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes. Yes.
 We have the following slates of nominations to submit tonight for consideration. For the Fayetteville Public Library, this is a mayor recommendation that also was approved by the committee. Kim Agee, one term, ending 04-01-21. For the Airport Board, James Rankin, one unexpired University of Arkansas term, ending 12-31-16.
 For the Board of Adjustments, Kristen Knight, one term ending 3-31-19. Stephen Clowney, one term ending 3-31-19. And Casey Hoffman, one unexpired term ending 3-31-18. For the Civil Service Commission, Earl Buddy Chaddock, one term ending 0-3-31-22. Um...
 The Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, Mary Catherine Johnson, an alternate member term ending 03-31-21. And then we have a vacancy. I mention this because we will want to fill that the next quarter if there's anyone interested in that position.
 We have Planning Commission Ron Autry, one term ending 03-31-19. Allison Quinlan, one term ending 03-31-19. And Leslie Belden, one term ending 03-31-19. I submit this report for consideration.
 I'll entertain a motion to accept the nomination submitted by the nominating committee. I would like to make a comment, please. Sure. I have some concerns about one of the appointments to the Planning Commission due to the fact that we were unable to interview this individual. I'm concerned about the precedent that sets. I do feel like that's a very important committee, and it's absolutely essential that we conduct interviews. I'm concerned with the...
 There were some issues in the individual's application, which I do feel that we should have an opportunity to ask questions about in an interview. And I would be concerned about the potential for someone to dispute a Planning Commission decision based on the fact that one member could be alleged to be improperly nominated.
 So what I would like to do is pull the nomination for one of the planning commissioners until we have an opportunity to interview in person both candidates that had submitted for the position. That would be the term ending 3-31-19, and the nominee was Leslie Belden. So the proper procedure for that would be to make a motion to amend this current motion before on the floor to approve the nominating committee report
 and by removing that individual that you mentioned. Okay. So moved. Yeah. I'd really like to hear a response from the chair. You need to hit your button. I'd really like to hear a response from the chair. We had an application and we reviewed all the applications. We've had other appointments from the nominating committee. We have the opportunity to vet individuals before based on their application.
 So that's why this was nominated. There were three of us, and the vote was two to one. But I have absolutely no problem in honoring Alderman Marsh's recommendation. Okay. Anything else, Matthew? Well, if the chair doesn't have a problem, I'll second it.
 Okay. Any other comments on it? I actually... I'm not used to this. Sorry, I have a question. Okay. So is your action item then that you would want everyone interviewed again or that one person interviewed or what
 I would like the two remaining candidates who had applied to come in for interviews. And that way, one of the other candidates we did a phone interview with because he was traveling to another state. You need to push your button.
 I would like both of the candidates that were left to come in to have in-person interviews. One of the candidates we did a phone interview with because he was traveling out of state. The other one did not come in for an interview at all. It's not someone that I've interviewed for any board or committee before, and I just feel like we're setting a bad precedent by appointing someone that we have not interviewed. Okay. Can I ask one more question? Sure. To the chair.
 So you don't have a problem with scheduling some time for those two people? I absolutely have no problem with that. Okay.
 Okay. I think that it's a good recommendation. Okay. I would support it. Good deal. Thanks. So we'll basically vote on all of them except the planning commission, basically. The final applicant, which was just the one position, which was Leslie Belden. Okay. All right. Yes. I'd just like to add, and I won't be supporting that because I think we debated that thoroughly at the nominating committee meeting itself.
 the applicant that we didn't actually get to interview at this meeting is well known in the community. And we did take a vote at the nominated committee meeting. So I'm just going to stand by the committee's recommendation. Okay. Anybody else? All right. So if I could just make one quick comment, we need to just to remind the council that the appointments of commissioners will need to be in place by the 31st of March, or we will be short one commissioner. Um,
 not appointed. Because the term's in March 31st. Well, I guess we could have a special city council meeting on the agenda session the night of the, what is that, the 29th? And that would make everything, everything. Right? I would be happy to make time in my schedule before then to interview these individuals. If this passes. Yes. Okay. Any other comments? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? No. Shopmar? No. Latere? No. Long? No. Marsh? Yes. The amendment fails. Okay. So now we have the original recommendation. I think there was a motion made by Mr. Kenyon. The clerk has informed me there wasn't a second, so we need to formally have a second. Second. We have a motion and a second. 2.
 Pass the, accept the nomination submitted by the nominating committee. All right? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Latour? No. Long? Yes. Marsh? No. The motion passed. Thank you. All right. Well, that was easy enough. All right. Next order of business we have is the consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the March 1st, 2016 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of professional digital imaging services from RICO USA, Inc., through its local vendor, Preferred Office Products, Inc., in varying amounts as needed through June 30, 2016, and any future renewal periods pursuant to a U.S. community's government purchasing alliance cooperative purchasing agreement.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $11,318 and increasing the related expense budget.
 4. A resolution to approve the purchase of three Nimble Storage expansion shelves and a five-year hardware maintenance contract from Carasoft Technology Corporation in the amount of $246,677.91 plus applicable taxes pursuant to a General Services Administration Federal Acquisition Service cooperative purchasing contract.
 5. A resolution to approve a two-year extension of the agreement between the City of Fedville and the City of Greenland regarding the provision of wastewater collection services in the City of Greenland. 6. A resolution to approve a cost-share agreement with Water Mart at Fedville, Arkansas, LLC in the amount not to exceed $43,241 for sewer main upgrade near Van Ash Drive and Steel Boulevard.
 7. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a General Improvement Fund grant through the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District, incorporating any amount of $9,198 for the construction of a garden shelter for the Yvonne Richardson Community Center's Kid Corps program and to approve a budget adjustment. 8. A resolution to approve a utility work agreement with Source Gas Arkansas, incorporating any amount not to exceed $9,198.
 $167,231.78 for the relocations of two gas lines necessary for the extension of Rupert Road from Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. to Persimmon Street and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,084.
 Number nine, a resolution to award RFQ 15-04 and authorize a contract with Burns McDonald Engineering Company, Inc., the amount not to exceed $557,695 for engineering services associated with the Sainz Street extension from North Front Street to Vantage Boulevard and to approve a budget adjustment.
 10. A resolution to approve supplemental agreement No. 1 to the contract with Garver LLC in the amount not to exceed $455,066 for additional archaeological and mitigation services associated with the design of a portion of Rupel Road between West Starry Night View and West Mount Comfort Road and to approve budget adjustment.
 And number 11, a resolution to approve two budget adjustments recognizing federal aid funds received from the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department in the amount of $48,928.
 for the Highway 45 Owy Road Signal and Intersection Project. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Mature? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. On unfinished business, we have none.
 Next order of business is a public hearing, which I will open now, C1, and it states, a resolution ratifying the resolution of Federal Public Facilities Board approving a refunding and improvement revenue bond Butterfield Trail Village Project Series 2016 in a principal amount of not to exceed $17,450,000 and prescribing other matters pertaining thereto.
 Paul, I believe you have this. I do, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a request from the Public Facilities Board for a bond issue of $17,450,000. Now, it comes through the City Council. However, I need to make it clear this is not a liability of the City of Fayetteville.
 affect our bond rating or will not affect our bond rating and it's backed by the public facilities board it's for Butterfield trails and they have Quincy Trammell if we have any questions on the specific project and Jim McCord who is the attorney on this for the bond issue but this comes through the council issued in the name of the public facility board it's not a liability of the city of Kansas
 Okay, what questions do we have for Paul on this? I do think we have Jim McCord, who is our attorney, that might have a presentation. That's all right, Jim. We've got plenty of time. How are you this evening? I'm Jim McCord, attorney for the Federal Public Facilities Board. On March 1st, the Facilities Board approved a request by... You need to push that button so you can be heard. There you go. On March 1st, the Public Facilities Board approved a request...
 by Butterfield Trail Village Incorporated to authorize the issuance of $17,450,000
 and revenue bonds to approximately 3.6 million would be used for new improvements and new facilities at Butterfield Trail Village. The remainder would be used to refund outstanding bonds that were issued in 2010 and save about three quarters of a percentage point in interest.
 Quentin Trammell, the president and CEO of Butterfield Trail Village, is present tonight, and we'd be glad to answer any questions if you have specific questions about the proposed improvements. Okay. What questions does council have? Anything? Everybody good? All right. Okay, Jim. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan, thank you for allowing me to speak to you tonight. At Butterfield Trail Village, we provide continuing care retirement. We're a continuing care retirement community, and we provide independent living, assisted living, health care, which is an Arkansas-type nursing home, and then also memory care, Alzheimer's unit.
 We've got three projects that we have on our drawing board. Actually, two of them have already started. The first project is an extensive remodel of our healthcare unit. The second project is a remodeling and updating of our main corridors of our independent living unit facility. And our third project is to add a 17,200 square foot wing addition to the front of Butterfield Trail Village.
 And what this would do is this would add us, give us a new covered entry portage for our residents to be able to exit their cars or enter their cars and come into the village without getting in the weather. This would give us a new lobby, a new bistro or slash casual dining facility. This gives us a large group meeting room, a dedicated boardroom, and then a larger general store, and then a smaller group meeting room. Meeting space of course is a premium at Butterfield.
 The cost of these projects is $10,600,000. We have $7 million in cash available to us from various sources now, so we need the $3.6 million from this bond issue to complete the rest of these projects.
 In addition, our 2010 bond issue that we're refunding was advantageous to us to refund at this point because we saved about three-quarters percent interest rate, and that bond issue also had an annual letter of credit fee to a local bank. In 2010, the financial markets, of course, was pretty tight, and this letter of credit was necessary to secure the bond issue at the time.
 The new loan would not have such a letter of credit fee, and this letter of credit fee will allow us to operate these facilities once the construction is built. So that's a synopsis of our plan, and I'd be glad to answer any questions, Mr. Mayor. What questions do we have from the council? Anything? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Is there any public comment on this? See, none. Bring it back to the council.
 Motion to pass the resolution. Second. Member, motion is second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, moving along to new business. Thank you, Your Honor. You're very welcome.
 Number one, a resolution to award RFQ 15-08 and to authorize a contract with Nelson Nygaard Consulting Associates Incorporated in the amount of $584,978 for the development of a transportation master plan and downtown entertainment district parking and mobility report to approve a project contingency in the amount of $14,740 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris, I believe you have this. Yes, thank you, Mayor.
 Just to give you a little bit of background, in 2013 the council passed a resolution expressing the intent to fund an updated transportation plan in the amount of $500,000 and a subsequent budget adjustment was passed for that. In 2014 we began the process of procuring a consultant. We got into that process, stopped that process.
 We re-initiated the process in 2015 and on December 29th, the selection committee selected Nelson Nygaard Consulting Associates and Garver Incorporated as their sub-consultant to provide the services for the plan.
 Following that selection by the consulting team, the city recognized the need to add an additional task related to parking and mobility in the downtown and entertainment district areas. The purpose of that study is of course to analyze parking inventory and utilization, also looking at existing and future demand and ultimately recommendations for refinement to the existing parking management design.
 A little bit of background on Nelson Nygaard. They were chosen over four other consultant teams that submitted statements of qualifications. 123 person firm specializing in transportation planning for all modes of transportation. Their statement of qualifications lists projects.
 Mobility and parking study in New Orleans, complete streets design guideline development in Chicago, participation in MOVE DC, which is Washington DC's long-range transportation
 plan and are currently leading an in-house master plan effort in Boston. Locally, they're in the final stages of completing the campus transportation plan for the University of Arkansas, so they do have some local knowledge. The Nelson-Nygaard project team includes project manager Jason Schreiber and deputy project manager Lisa Jacobson, both of whom are here tonight. If you guys have any hard questions, I'm going to turn it over to them.
 So if you want to hear them talk, ask me a hard question. Both of those folks have been involved in the U of A master plan, so they've been here multiple times and have a good feel for the city. And there are excerpts from the statement of qualifications included in your packet if you care to read further. Going into the scope.
 Exhibit A to the contract is included in the packet also. It details the task to be completed. After the initial kickoff meetings and establishment of detailed goals and objectives, the team will begin looking at the city's existing codes, policies, master plans, and other data to kind of fully understand what the city's transportation current system is. This initial review, out of that will come a mobility facts book.
 which will be summarizing the existing conditions and also will provide some examples of best practices from other peer communities.
 Public participation will be an integral part as soon as the mobility facts book is done and using other outreach materials we will begin a series of public meetings, mobile workshops throughout the city. Also we'll develop a website and online interaction tools in order to gauge as many citizens as possible. We really want to hit all demographics and all areas of the city and make sure we engage as many people as possible.
 Once that information is gathered, then the consultant will begin to develop the, will look at the needs throughout the network, develop a list of issues and opportunities throughout the system. Ultimately, the final plan will include both broad recommendations for policies to be used for the future and also detailed project strategies and implementation strategies.
 Critical deliverables for the master plan include, as I said, planning and design policy recommendations, tools for evaluation and prioritization of projects that we can use from now into the future, and implementation and financial plans.
 The second major part of the work is the parking and mobility study. And again, the initial step of that is looking at existing utilization and looking at the demand analysis and developing a memo around that. And then ultimately looking at future changes in the, essentially the parking system, especially looking at integrating the two systems which are right now different.
 Nelson Nygaard has scheduled the work to be completed over a period of approximately 15 months, which we'll update as the project progresses. The overall plan and the parking study will progress separately, but the public meeting, consultant visits, those sorts of things will be put together to minimize cost, of course, and to maximize public interaction.
 the schedule the detailed schedule is included as exhibit b to the contract and that's also in your packet the proposed fee as the mayor mentioned is 584 978 dollars the bulk of which is the transportation master plan 489 978 and then the remaining 95 000 is allocated for the parking study
 We also have a contingency amount proposed Requested to allow for additional items of work that may arise during the project as mentioned before we did have five hundred thousand dollars included in the project for the transportation master plan a budget adjustment in the amount of a hundred thousand dollars is proposed to pay for the parking portion of this of the study the I
 And the general fund reserve balance is the proposed source of funding for that budget adjustment.
 I guess the last thing I want to say, I feel like we really have a good team. We've spent a lot of time selecting this team. I feel even more confident after going through this selection process and the negotiation of the contract. The consultant has been very responsive, very quick to respond, has done everything that we've asked them to do related to the project. So very confident in the team that we have in place and really looking forward to the project.
 So staff recommends approval of this. This also went to the Transportation Committee and the Transportation Committee recommends approval and I'll answer any questions. All right, what questions we have for Chris? Yes, John. Chris, who designed our current transportation model that we're under right now?
 Well, we did have a Transportation Master Plan done in 2003. It's been the basis for a lot of the decisions that have been made over the last 12 years or so. So there's not a single answer to that. There are other, the cross-section plans, the Master Street Plan, that's in the City Plan 2030, which was originally developed by a consultant but updated by staff.
 Would we expect the study to show deficiencies in our existing infrastructure? Absolutely.
 Yes. How much do we pay for the original plan that we're into right now, even though it might not have been one provider, maybe three providers or a conglomerate of providers? Well, if you want to talk about the plan that was done in 2003, I believe that was in the range of $200,000. It's been a very successful plan. It became the basis for our bond program. So the work that we've done over the past 10 years through the transportation bond program has come out of that plan. So it's really served us well there.
 But these are the sort of things that really need to be updated periodically, and it's now time to do that. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, Al. I'll just make a general comment. I really like that the study includes the fact that the consultants will teach our staff how to conduct the field surveys on parking utilization and accumulation so that this can be more of a sustainable approach in this study as well. So thank you all for including that.
 Anything else to counsel? Yes. I said this. I'll get used to it in two weeks when we won't be here. Oh, yes. You all have to come see our new buildings.
 so i said this in the in the transportation committee meeting i really like the fact that the same people that are doing the university study are doing this one because we we cross so many intersections and areas of town and we have so many growth patterns that are changing all over the area and i think that's that's a huge deal for me that that's happening so i really appreciate that um you were on the council when the last transportation study was done it
 If I could just ask you a question, do you think that was a good use of our dollars then and the same sort of usefulness would come out of this one, in your opinion? I do. I think the first one, Chris, I remembered about $250,000. I think it's what I remembered. I could be off, but it's been a while back. But yeah.
 We took that very plan and we developed our bond program out of that in 2006, which every time we have referred back to that plan. But most of those projects have...
 they have the plans 13 years old. And I think it's time that we need to go forward with a new plan with new objectives. And I think one of those is the parking plan. Everybody said, we need to do a parking plan. So I said, well, let's put the parking plan in there and we'll go on with that. But we got really good bang for our buck with that plan. Justin really did. Well, that was, that was what I wanted to know really from someone who was here because this is a lot of money and, and, but,
 as yourself who spends the money wisely, if you think it was a good use then, then I would think it would be a good use now. And it gives us a tool, and I know that some of the questions have been on the parking and things like that, and I certainly wanted to get that included. And I know it went through the Transportation Committee, and I take it that you all were relatively pleased with it. It's been through a few times. It's had support each time. Okay. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. I guess the short answer is yes, we got a good bank for a bike. Thank you.
 Anything else from the council? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Just please come up and introduce yourself. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Bob Munger. I am the owner of Sumo Sustainable Urban Mobility. We're a low-speed electric vehicle car share company founded here in Fayetteville. We're actually the first NEV-based car share in the Western Hemisphere. We're very proud of that.
 is really behind in car sharing. The industry has grown by 50 percent compounded annually for the last 10 years and we're struggling because most of the people in Fayetteville don't even know what car sharing is. I guess my point is that the transportation industry is changing rapidly. People are driving less.
 There's driverless cars are on the horizon. They're gonna have a huge impact on the way we plan our cities and our transportation systems. So I think it's a wonderful time to do a detailed transportation study. And I know from my experience, these guys have a great reputation. And so I just wanna say that I'm really in supportive of you hiring them. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Who else would like to address this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Yes, sir.
 I would just like to emphasize that this is a transportation plan. This is not just
 just a study. It's not just about cars. This is about how we as a city are going to grow, and it will address our cycling, our more active modes of transportation, as well as hopefully emphasizing how we can revitalize some of our main street corridors and be more efficient with our transportation dollars. So I think this is a great direction that we're going in, and I strongly support this plan. Okay.
 Anybody else? Yes, Matthew. Thank you. I think it was about two years ago I asked our GIS department to calculate how much of our public space was made up of streets. And we have over 2,800 acres of streets. It's half our public space, half of it. We've got a plan from 2003 and a couple of addendums.
 over the years, but by and large, everything we have when it comes to plan for our streets is obsolete. So I'm very grateful that we're here tonight discussing this. And I wanna very personally thank the other members of the Transportation Committee who first supported this two years ago and have been patient as we've navigated one and then a second RFP to get Nelson Nygaard in front of us today.
 when Alderman Long said that he liked that our staff is gonna get training on parking utilization. I wanted to jump on that and say, you know, it's not just that, we're also going to get some really valuable evaluation tools
 that we can use to compare various projects even after this plan has been presented to us and adopted, which means that unlike with our previous planning tools or with our master plan, we will really come away with this, with the tools we need to be able to adapt to changing technologies or changing demographics, changing market trends.
 And I think the value of that is really hard to quantify. It would be tremendously valuable to us. But more than that, Mr. Munger from Sumos pointed out the industry is changing rapidly and I don't think we've ever seen such rapid change in an industry as we have the transportation industry
 13 years since we got the first plan. Policies from top to bottom, from local government to the federal government have really changed and even more rapidly in the last couple of years. I think this couldn't be more timely. To Alderwoman Marsh's point, this goes so far beyond vehicular considerations. I think it even goes beyond transportation considerations.
 It's almost a fundamental principle of city planning that transportation investment drives real estate investment. And real estate developers, you know, they don't just crave predictability. I think they really rely on our plans and our visible commitment.
 commitments to our plans to be able to make decisions, especially decisions that will shape our community for potentially centuries, like we're expecting this plan to do. So in the interest of managing expectations, I also want to say that based on the conversations I've had, I think Nelson Nygaard is fast attaining a reputation being one of the best transportation planners on the planet.
 And I hope we see a plan in 15 months that reflects that. And I'm confident that we will. So thank you again to the members of the Transportation Committee for getting us this far. Okay. Anything else? Yes, John. Well, Mr. Nygaard, no pressure. You're going to shape our transportation system for centuries to come for half a million dollars. Congratulations on landing the job.
 I have concerns about spending a half million dollars of our taxpayers' dollars. I'm personally aware of a situation where thousands of people on football game days share the street with automobiles, and I cannot get this city council to agree to build a sidewalk there. I don't think we have to spend $500,000 to figure that out. Now, maybe we need a bigger plan than that, but until we correct some basic element of public safety...
 I'd say let's have priorities. Let's get that fixed and rectified, then go on with our century plan to affect our citizens for hundreds of years from now. That's what concerns me, Mr. Mayor, is we miss things like that. We have bad priorities sometimes. I'm not saying we don't need this plan. I'm not saying that $500,000 is a bad price. Maybe it's a good price. But I'd just like to see us prioritize things a little differently.
 I think public safety should come above aesthetics and our grandiose plans for our transportation system. But I wish you well. I hope you can fulfill the expectations of this council. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. We need a motion and a second. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Caddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? No. Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number two. In order to rezone that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 16-5310 for approximately .46 acres located at 1564 East Huntsville Road from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to CS community services. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to community services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Jeremy. This is a request for a half-acre parcel on the northeast corner of Sherman Avenue and Huntsville Road. It's directly off of Huntsville Road. The property was constructed as a commercial building, or the commercial building was constructed on the property in around 1965. It's been utilized for commercial purposes for over 50 years.
 This rezoning request, which would go from RSF4 to CS, community services, would bring the property into compliance with its historic use. It would also allow the building to be renovated or the property redeveloped for a small-scale, non-residential, or mixed use on the half acre that could serve the neighborhood and provide missing middle housing in the core of the city. The future land use plan does show this as a residential neighborhood area.
 And one of the primary tenants of our city plan 2030 for residential neighborhood areas is to provide for complete neighborhoods where there's a mixture of uses and housing types. Generally embedded within complete neighborhoods are non-residential services that should be encouraged to serve the surrounding neighborhood on corners and along connecting corridors. We believe this request fully meets that intent and are recommending approval, as did the Planning Commission with a vote of 9-0. Any questions for Jeremy on this? Yes, Alan, please.
 Not really a question, just a comment. Usually when we have a rezoning, there's a map attached with the entire larger picture of that quadrant of our city, and this agenda item doesn't have that. I was just wondering if we could look at making sure those are there in the future. It just makes it a little easier. Yes, definitely. Thank you. We should have put that in. Sorry. John, you have a question?
 Or comment? Yes. Okay. And I hope the city council will be gratified by my comment. I just came from a growing the city conference down in New Orleans, two days of nothing but town centers, no urban sprawl, infill, make it look good, mixed use. Let's do away with what we thought was right 20 years ago. I can't disagree with that. I can't disagree that it looks better to me.
 But one of the lecturers at this conference put up a picture of a subdivision and said, now, isn't this ugly? And I couldn't help but think, well, I wonder what the people who live there think. You know, would I buy a house in an ugly neighborhood? I bet they like their neighborhood. I bet that's why they bought there, you know. So I like the idea of...
 infill. I like the idea of town centers, not shopping centers. I like the idea of the urban look, having the building with no setback from the street and having parking behind the building. Those are good ideas, I think. But I don't want to force those. I want individual developers to come in and say, yes, I want to do that. Or we as a city, why don't we build an example and say this is what it could look like and get other people interested
 I go back to my original tenets of don't force me to do something, persuade me. And I think that's what's happening here. So I think I can support this. Is that correct, Jeremy? The developer is asking for this zoning change? That's correct. Okay. So it should meet our council's stated objectives of these prettier looking developments? So I'm going to vote for it. Okay. Hope you all join me. All right. Any other questions?
 Questions for Jeremy or comments? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring up somebody. Oh, okay. Good evening. My name is Alan Reed. I'm just here to represent Markzweig Properties on this resigning request, and we concur with the staff. But if there are any questions from anybody, we'll be glad to try and answer them for you. Okay. Thank you, Alan. Any questions for Alan? Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 All right. Anybody else in the public want to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes. I'm going to vote for this as well, but I do it with one reservation that I want to talk about on the record. You know, we see a lot of stuff out on the edges of town that gets rezoned community services and I voted for them virtually every time. And given the zoning designations we have, I think that's usually the best designation for,
 But this time, like some of the others, I find myself thinking that community services is probably a little bit, it's probably an example of overzoning for the parcels in question. And we made some comments in the past on other items where we really have a gap between neighborhood services and downtown general. And I think that we also have a gap between somewhere lower in intensity than community services where we don't just have a good option.
 I'd be able to vote for Downtown General on this location without any reservation whatsoever, except for it's got the word downtown in it. But otherwise, my reading of the code says it's perfectly appropriate and perfectly intense and has a perfect mix of uses. And I'm reminded of that Shakespeare quote, something about a rose by any other name.
 So I want to encourage staff, and I'll probably make a similar comment with these similar community services rezoning out on the edges that comes forward, that we really need to think about having some kind of middle-scaled intensity for these requests on the outside of town that will bring projects like this into compliance, but that don't run the risk of diluting the market by overzoning parcels where there may not be a need.
 demand for the kind of intensity they allow. Okay. I move we go to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Yes.
 Mars. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 16-5310 for approximately .46 acres located at 1564 East Huntsville Road from residential single family four units per acre to community services.
 Move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final. Second. Move the motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property, ascribed in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5310 for approximately 0.46 acres, located at 1564 East Huntsville Road, from residential single family, four units per acre, to community services.
 Any final comments from the council? Yes, sir. I'd just like to say that I have not received any comment one way or the other from citizens in this area regarding the proposed rezoning. I do intend to support it. I think this property has been underutilized for quite some time, and I'm looking forward to seeing something new happen here. But I'd also like to point out the growing trend of infill development that we're seeing along Huntsville Road. I'm glad that we got the sidewalks put in. I believe that was about three years ago. I think that that's helped. Thank you.
 And so I'm really excited about the potential for this area in the long term. Okay. Anything else? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Canyon? Yes. Caddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shotmar? Yes. LeCure? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. Number three. In order to amend 166.24 non-residential design standards, 172.04 parking lot design standards,
 177.04 site development and parking lot landscape standards and 177.05 street tree planning standards of unified development code kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 166.24, Non-Residential Design Standards of the Unified Development Code, Subsection E, Pedestrian Oriented Elements, by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement Subsection E as shown on Exhibit A.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Section 172.04, Parking Lot Design Standards of the Unified Development Code by enacting a new Subsection C, Subsection 4, as shown below. Subsection 4, in urban zoning districts that specify urban form, i.e., a built-to-zone zone.
 The intent is for drive-through lanes, parking lot drive aisles, and parking spaces to be located to the side or rear of buildings. In urban zoning districts, a drive-through lane, parking lot drive aisle, or parking spaces are not permitted to be located in the front yard directly between a building and the Master Street Plan right-of-way. Section 3.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 177.04, Site Development and Parking Lot Landscape Standards of the Unified Development Code by repealing Subsection D in its entirety and enacting replacement Subsection D perimeter landscaping requirement as shown on Exhibit B.
 Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 17705, Street Tree Planning Standards of the Unified Development Code by renumbering subsection 2A to subsection 2B and enacting a replacement subsection 2A as shown below. A. A.
 Street trees are intended to be planted in the green space strip between the curb and sidewalk and in urban tree wells in accordance with the Master Street Plan. The intent of the street tree planting location is to shade the sidewalk, provide a barrier between vehicles on the street and pedestrians, increase motorized traffic and pedestrian safety, and spatially frame the street.
 Existing trees within the build-to zone shall be counted toward the required number of street trees. When there is not adequate green space between the curb and the sidewalk...
 and urban tree wells are not appropriate, or there are utilities or other structural conflicts in the green space strip between the curb and sidewalk, the urban forester may permit street trees in the green space between the sidewalk and on private property. Section 4, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks, are hereby amend Section 17705A3 by repealing its first sentence and replacing it with the following, quote,
 the street planning plans for development in urban zoning districts may utilize an urban streetscape for at least eight feet wide from curb to building unquote and amend section 17705 a3g by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement subsection g with the following quote subsection g
 Development applications approved for use of the urban tree wells shall not be required to provide additional perimeter landscaped area between the Master Street Plan right-of-way and building as described further under the perimeter landscape requirements. Okay.
 Chairman? Excuse me. Alderman Petty recently discussed with city staff a desire to clarify some of our street tree and green space requirements, particularly for urban projects, which we call either urban residential or urban projects that are non-residential, as you see in our form-based codes. Okay.
 After meeting with our urban forestry staff and city planning, we also felt like that was a good idea. And also there were some other clarifications that were needed related to this proposal within the landscape code in our Chapter 166 Development Code. Mr. Williams read virtually all the changes, so I won't repeat all of those in the ordinance in particular. But the primary purpose again was to clarify a lot of the
 codes that we have in place. For example, perimeter landscape plantings. When a project shares a driveway, right now we have a perimeter landscape requirement on the property line. When that shared driveway is on the property line, it's often difficult to understand should there also still be landscaping required or can they actually pave that for the driveway? So this simply clarifies that for the developer and for staff in order to be able to implement that type of scenario.
 This also allows for the elimination all or part of green space requirements between a building and a sidewalk, an urban sidewalk. It allows for patio space to be utilized instead or some other urban condition, a pedestrian area. And so we've clarified that as well. There are times, particularly in urban areas.
 conditions and context where that is much more appropriate than a green space than you have to mow, and it's not really that functional for the users. And so we are certainly supportive of that request as well. I'll be happy to take any questions on any specific items, but staff is certainly supportive, as was the Planning Commission. Okay, Matt, you want to say anything? I don't have much to add. Like Jeremy said, it's primarily a clarification. All right, what question is it? Yes, John. Jeremy, would you say we're
 giving more latitude for these design standards, or are we tightening up and making them more restrictive?
 i think uh we're definitely tightening up the language so it can be understood more i think that's a level of predictability is always a concern and looking at any kind of regulation and so being able to understand what is being said and using more clear language is one of the intents we're actually relaxing some of these because it particularly like i mentioned the example of perimeter landscaping requiring that landscaping along the perimeter when you have a shared access drive really did not
 provide any benefit to anyone it was really more of a requirement you had to come before the Planning Commission and get a variance it was always approved in those cases and so in that particular case it certainly removes that I would also say the elimination of green space in front of a building it's both a I think a relaxation of the code but more importantly it's a clarification of what can be allowed other types of elements like patio spaces
 areas for outdoor dining, if it's a business that allows for outdoor dining, those types of spaces could be utilized as well. Could you give me an example of where it might be making the restrictions more restrictive? Maybe I should rephrase that by saying the regulations more restrictive.
 You're going to be looking for a while, Jeremy. I'm not sure there is any specific. The purpose of this was not to do that. The purpose of it was to provide more predictability and then really to clarify our standards as they are today. I'll certainly continue looking, but I'm not sure there are. Thank you, Jeremy. Any other questions from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I want to bring it back to the council then.
 Yes, Alan. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Right. That's because you've got to turn yours off, John. You've got too many on. I'll do it. We have a motion in a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. LaTier. Yes. Long. Yes. Marsh.
 An ordinance to amend section 166.24 non-residential design standards, section 172.04 parking lot design standards, section 177.04 site development and parking lot landscape standards, and section 177.05 street tree planning standards of the Unified Development Code. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Tannett? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In Ordinance of Men, Section 16624, Non-Residential Design Standards, Section 17204, Parking Lot Design Standards, Section 17704, Site Development and Parking Lot Landscape Standards, and Section 17705, Street Tree Planning Standards of the Unified Development Code. All right. Any final comments from the council?
 Yes. I'd just like to take the opportunity again to thank staff for working through this. I brought them one change in the interest of keeping things simple, and it wasn't enough, and I'm glad that we're clarifying the rest of the chapter together. I think it's the right way to do it. Anything else? All right.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Number four, an ordinance to amend 97.082B and 94.05D and to enact a new 94.05G of the federal code to authorize the mayor to issue a Publix fireworks display permit.
 for an annual display by the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks at Lake Fed Kit. Whereas Section 97.082B incorrectly refers to Section 94.04 instead of correctly to 94.05.
 And whereas section 94.05 should be amended to authorize the mayor to issue a public fireworks display permit normally issued as part of the special events permit process for the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks fireworks display no more than once a year. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby corrects and amends Section 97.082, Fires, Fireworks, and Explosives, Subsection B, by changing the cited code section from Section 9404 to Section 9405G.
 Section 2, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 94.05, use of fireworks by enacting a new subsection G as shown below. Subsection G, it shall be unlawful, no, it shall be lawful for the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks to conduct an annual public fireworks display if approved by the mayor and fire chief and in accordance with subsection B1 and 3, C and D.
 Section 3, the City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends subsection 94.05D to correct the reference code section within this subsection from section 94.04E to just subsection E. Everybody got that? All right. I can net that out. You can sum that up, I'm sure. Well, thanks to Kit for helping me through this one.
 I was approached by the event coordinator for the Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks, Danica Dingman, who
 is the event coordinator for their very very popular firefly firefly fling that they have every year this one scheduled for july 16th and they are wanting to have a fireworks display at the end of this event uh several thousand people i think three or so thousand people come to this event and they just want to add something special to it um and and i thought this was uh a good thing to do and then we realized there were some issues with uh the current um the current
 ordinance. So we wanted to make this change. I don't know if, uh, uh, Ms. Dingman's here. Oh, do you want to come up and, and answer any questions maybe, or give some background on the, on the event? Maybe, uh, give us just a quick rundown of what it is. Yes. That's the hot seat. That's the, that's the, okay. Do I need to sit up into it? Um, so the firefly fling serves 3000 guests and we partner with, um, community partners, um,
 local businesses to put booths together that are educational and help promote things that are going on in the community. And every year, we try to end with something really beautiful and special, like a wish ceremony for the families, a wish for the community, if you will. And a few years ago, we learned that we weren't allowed to use paper lanterns, the ones you light on fire and send into the sky, because those are illegal in Arkansas, which we didn't know.
 And so we started looking into how we could still have some magic at the end of this event. And one thing that we've thought about is a brief fireworks display. This wouldn't be a 4th of July display. It would just be sort of everyone closes their eyes, makes a wish for the community, and then there's a big surprise. And we would, of course, use people who have permits to do all these fireworks and go through all the hoops that we need to do to make it safe.
 and community friendly. Any questions? I don't have any questions. I should note that this is gonna be handled to last special events permit that the mayor and the fire chief will check out and make sure it's gonna be safe and grant once a year at the mayor's discretion.
 And that's why we had several code sections cited in this. Prior to this, no fireworks were allowed to be fired off in the city parks, period. This doesn't open the city parks to anything but a single display at the Botanical Gardens. If the mayor grants a special events permit, we're not allowing fireworks in the parks still.
 The other two changes were just because there had been a mistake in citing the wrong code section that I discovered as I was looking at this, and I figured we might as well clear that up and make them cite to the correct code section. Any questions for the council? No. All right. Thank you. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 I would just like to confirm, I know we talked about it a little bit in the agenda session, but with everyone here, that as a courtesy to our citizens with PTSD or even those with jumpy pets, that we'll be using our citizen alert system to let people know about the fireworks in advance so that they can prepare. We got that, Sarah. Excellent. We'll take care of that. Thank you. Anything else? Yes.
 Okay. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 An ordinance to amend section 97.082b, section 94.05d, and to enact a new section 94.05g of the Fayetteville Code to authorize the mayor to issue a public fireworks display permit for an annual display by the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks at Lake Fayetteville. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 The motion is seconded to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance amends Section 97082B, Section 9405D, and to enact a new Section 9405G of the Fable Code to authorize the mayor to issue a public fireworks display permit for an annual display by the Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks at Lake Fayetteville.
 Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Excuse me. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Mark? Yes. Okay. Okay. What announcements do we have?
 Mayor, a couple of announcements. The city is currently seeking nominations for the 2016 Historic Preservation Awards. The applications can be found online at the city's website, www.fayetteville-ar.gov, and the deadline for those nominations are April 8th at 5 p.m.
 The Lafayette historic bridge construction has begun and will be closed from March 14th until the 1st of June. So for those individuals accessing that area, you'll need to plan for detours for that bridge closure.
 Also, College Avenue between East Cleburne Street and North Street construction has begun and that will go from March till November. So make plans for that in terms of any anticipated travel delays for that project. This Saturday is our first bulky waste cleanup. It's at Owl Creek School, 375 North Ruppel Road and the recycling and trash facility
 at 1560 South Happy Hollow Road. Only the Happy Hollow Road will take electronic waste, so for individuals who need to discard televisions, computers, electronic type devices, that's at the Happy Hollow location. All other locations, all other items that are bulky of nature are at the Owl Creek as well. We do not accept household trash at bulky waste cleanups, only large bulky items.
 I have one. Yes, Justin and Al. Oh, okay. All right. We have an ordinance review meeting that is scheduled, but I want to confirm a couple of things because it's scheduled for the 31st of this month, but in the memo I saw, it still says room 326, but I don't think 326 is going to be finished by March 31st. Is that correct?
 326? 326 is okay through March. It's okay? It's 219. 219 is the one that was not going to be completed? Right. And then 326 will go under construction in April. Okay. Just wanted to confirm that. I didn't want people showing up at the wrong room. So we're still good. Then I'm good. I just wanted to make sure we didn't have the wrong room down in the memo. Okay. And that will be at 430. The agenda will be to elect chairman and also discuss the festival ordinance.
 whatever name you want to call it. So we'll get on. I'll bring snacks. So everybody, look forward to seeing everybody there. Yes. Mayor, as a reminder, since Alderman Tennant said that, all future meetings will be back at City Hall after this meeting, council meetings. Yeah. We'll have a Ward 4 meeting Monday, March 28th, 6 p.m., room 111 of City Hall. Anything else? Mayor, I have one thing. Yes. Yes.
 I'd just like to personally thank the Fayetteville School District and Washington County for allowing us to use their facilities to meet while the City Council Chambers have been under construction. This was a very fine facility, and I appreciate them extending the courtesy to us. And I'd like to take a moment to thank everybody that worked on the restoration of those historic bridges of Lafayette and Maple. That's been something that we've been working on for at least...
 10 years that I can remember, maybe longer than that. And it's going to be a great historic moment for this city to restore those back to the way they looked originally in the 1930s. So the first one will be done, should be done by June.
 And then the next one should be done around August or so. I think it's a three-month project, maybe a little sooner than that. But it's a great project for this city and a great accomplishment. So I want to thank everybody that worked on that. All right. I don't have anything else. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.