I would like to call the City Council meeting for March 19, 2019 to order. Senator, would you please call the vote? Scroggins. Present. Hutch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Betty. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight under reports, we have the nominating committee reports. Sarah, I believe you have that. Yes. I'm going to get my glasses here. Okay. Thank you. Okay, we had a we had a lot of people apply for some positions we had with the city great turnout great applicants I would like to commend everyone that did apply and if you didn't get Appointed please apply for something else in the future The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees Hershey Garner one term ending for 124 historic district commission and Katie Mihaljevic, one term ending 6-30-21. The Public Facilities Board recommends the following candidates for appointment. Eric Albrecht, Public Facilities Board, one term, one unexpired term ending 12-31-20. The Advertising and Promotion Commission recommends the following candidate for appointment. Catherine Kinney one tourism industry term ending 3 31 23 this is advertising and promotion commission the nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment airport board Ian talking one aeronautical unexpired term 12 31 20. animal services advisory board was vacant we need one licensed veterinarian we did not have that so that term expires 6 30 22 but we didn't have an applicant for that board of adjustments Stephen Clowney one term ending 331 22 and we also have one vacant term on that board of adjustments as well that ends 331 22. Civil Service Commission, Jules K. Beck, one term ending 331.25. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, vacant. We have one term that ends 331.24. That position is still vacant. For Planning Commission, we have Leslie Belden, one term ending 331.22. Robert Sharp, one term ending 331.22. Christopher Paxton, one term ending 331.22. And Quentin Canada, one unexpired term ending 331.20. Thank you. Okay, I will entertain a motion to approve the nominating committee's recommendations. Can I do that? You can. Okay, I'll make a motion. Sarah I'll second that we have a motion and a second to approve the nominating committee recommendations yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all now I would like to remind everyone to silence your cell phones please do that for us number two We have Chairman Richie Lamb will be presenting the annual report from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board at the City Council meeting tonight. Hello. Whoa, that was loud. Sorry. Last time I was here, you couldn't hear me, and now I'm way too loud. You're in ballpark now. Yeah. Standing too close. So, yes, I'm Richie Lamb. I am the chair for Parks and Recreation Advisory Board for 2018 and 2019. We also do have John Crowe's staff here. In case y'all have any questions that pop up, he'll be here to help us answer them. So I'd like to start with our mission statement. It is our mission to meet the parks and recreational needs of all by providing a safe and diversified park system that encourages community pride, visionary planning and operations, and environmental stewardship. Our community programs in 2018 hosted 60,306 recreation program participants, 4,446 race series participants, and our YRCC Summer Fun for Kids Camp served 107 youth, and also received the Arkansas Recreation and Parks Association Program of the Year. We had 21 teams participated in youth softball, and we had 200 teams in adult softball. Our preservation programs in 2018 facilitated over 9,400 volunteer hours. 5,000 hours of litter cleanup, 1,100 trees and shrubs given away, and 1,928 mitigation trees planted in 2018. This resulted in quite a few awards for 2019. From 2018 Best of NWA, the Wilson Park Public Tennis Courts were the winner for Best Public Tennis Facility. Wilson Park was also awarded Best Public Park for the third year in a row, and Gully Park was the runner-up. And the Fayetteville Knights of the Ozarks Parade was awarded Best Parade in 2018. For our other 2018 Arkansas Recreation and Parks Association Awards, Amazing Trees of Fayetteville received the Natural Resources Program of the Year. Summer Fun for Kids Camp at YRCC, of course, was the recreation program of the year. Kessler Mountain Regional Park was awarded Soft Surface Trail of the Year. And the Lake Sequoia Bait Shop renovation received Facility of the Year. The Ladies Duathlon was the festival slash event of the year. And we had a local volunteer named a Volunteer of the Year. That's Mrs. Laura Underwood. and also we were named Tree City USA for the 23rd year in a row. I believe that's in a row. It doesn't say. Just 23 years. I hope it's consecutively. Our revenue collections were up 4.5% above projections, and our donations totaled $91,718. Our HMR tax revenue increased 4.4% to $3,554,000. and the estimated economic impact from our events was over $2,500,000. Some of our most impactful projects in 2018 were the Rotary Park Playground at Kessler Mountain Regional Park, the Splash Pad and Restrooms at Walker Park, the Gregory Park Trail and Mountain Bike Skills Course, and the Lake Sequoia Bait Shop renovation. Also the... Kessler Mountain Regional Park soccer field, along with the disc golf course improvements at North Shore Park. Gully Park trail improvements, Sweetbire stream restoration, and Veterans Park water line replacement, along with the Lake Fayetteville rowing dock. Also in 2018, we began to collect community feedback regarding Fayetteville's overall parks and recreation system. We had 12 public input sessions. We had online and mailed surveys, and we collected 1,538 completed surveys. We also had focus groups with stakeholders and community leaders. This data... This was part of the information we used in the parks projects for the bond election and also will be used to initiate the strategic master plan update in 2019. The parks summarize some of the initial findings that I thought you might find interesting. First of all, our favorite parks, Wilson Park, Gully Park and Lake Fayetteville, which should come to no surprise. The top two values to consider when planning new parks were to create and maintain natural spaces in the city and help people live a healthier lifestyle. The findings also showed a desire for places and activities that enhance quality of life, contribute to an active lifestyle, create spaces that allow for contact with nature, and enhance spaces that facilitate community interaction. Um, that concludes the, uh, annual report, which may be the fastest one I've ever done. So I'm very proud of, um, the only other thing I have left to say is that, um, I also realized there's another parks, uh, item on the agenda later tonight. Clearly the board has made this recommendation. Um, and I wanted to make sure that everyone was aware of the process we went through before we made that recommendation to you. It took at least. five or six meetings. We had lots of input from lots of different groups. It was a very hard decision to make. And while we do feel that there might be a better way to look at that, the recommendation we have for you tonight is what we can do now. So if we do determine that it should be looked at differently, that's something that certainly we would support in the future. But the recommendation we have is what we feel like we can do right now. So do you have any questions for me? No, that's a great report. Really encouraging to see that. It is. Appreciate all the work you all are doing. Yeah. Do we have any questions? I will say thank you to the nominating committee. You just gave us three new members at the turn of the year. They seem to be turning out great. I feel like they're all dedicated and definitely bring some new ideas and some diversity to the board. So thank you for that. Great. Do we have any questions? Council, everybody good? Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. All your work. Okay, the next order of business we have, we have an agenda item addition from Councilmember Teresa Turk. And the resolution title is a resolution to express the City Council's support of clean water and opposition to Senate Bill 550. I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules and add this agenda item on. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second to add this resolution to the council agenda. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'll go ahead and read the body so the public will know what we're talking about. Whereas Senate Bill 550 would remove the authority of the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality to ensure all Arkansans will have safe and clean water, and whereas the largest water district in Arkansas, which is the Central Arkansas Water District, issued the following statement, quote, Senate Bill 550 presents a threat to the health and well-being of the people of Arkansas... Senate Bill 550 has potential to expose some of the state's most important natural resources, including public drinking reservoirs, to liquid animal waste. And whereas the Central Arkansas water continues, quote, Senate Bill 550 would wipe out the current permitting process and oversight of these confined animal feeding facilities and gut current regulatory protections. Public notification requirements would be eliminated. Minimum distance setback from neighbors, streams, and lakes could be lost, unquote. Thank you. and whereas our Beaver Water District, which is the second largest in the state, also strongly opposed the Senate Bill 550 in a statement entitled Senate Bill 550 jeopardizes drinking water sources such as Beaver Lake and points out that Senate Senate bill 550 would eliminate adeq's oversight of liquid animal waste systems and Substitute weakened authority to be exercised by the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission Which has fewer experienced pollution and water safety experts as well as much less authority to protect our clean water from confined animal operations and And whereas ADEQ possesses the expertise, oversight, and authority to permit and manage liquid manure waste in Arkansas. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby expresses its wholehearted support of clean water and joins with central arkansas water and the beaver water district to request all arkansas senators and representatives to vote no on senate bill 550. okay teresa thank you mayor The last couple of weeks the Senate has been working on this bill and it takes away ADEQ's authority, who has had authority for the last 20 years plus on liquid animal manure operations, and moves it to the Arkansas Natural Resource Commission that really has no experience. ANRC does not permit liquid waste facilities. They only provide certificates. They don't have the staff or the technical expertise. to be able to have oversight on liquid manure operations. And subsequently, our clean water is going to be degraded. There will be a lack of monitoring, lack of oversight. And I think it's cause for concern for our region because we get all of our drinking water from Deaver Lake. and uh... there will be the necessary regulations to prevent high phosphorus levels and other things that that may be come out of uh... liquid manure operations that are not properly uh... managed or monitored what questions we have for teresa on this i don't have a question just want to add comments to council member turk thank you for bringing this forward this is something that is extremely concerning to our partners we've heard from the buffalo What's the great call, Teresa? River Watershed Alliance. River Watershed Alliance. We've heard from Beaver Water District ourselves. We received a call from them today asking that the city join that. The city of Springdale has also taken the position to oppose this bill. It has detrimental and long-lasting effects to the water quality, which we all need to live. Okay, I would like to add, I think it's one of the worst pieces of legislation I've seen in a while. But other than that, it's pretty good, I guess. Yes. But, I mean, this just absolutely is just, you know, there's two things that I know. that if you're a good environment you always want to protect the water you want to protect the air everything goes back to that this bill flies in the face of those type of standards and that type of belief i think it's a really bad piece of legislation i certainly am not supportive of this but that being said um maybe the council have anything you want to add to that or do it yeah i As chairman of the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee, we've worked very hard the last eight years that I've been on that committee to make sure that we are not only in compliance with ADQ standards, but we exceed them. In addition to this, the city of Fayetteville had worked on streamside protection and additional measures because we know the importance of the Illinois River watershed and the Beaver Lake and White River watershed. What this would allow is to completely override any of the improvements we've made by allowing animal waste to get into the watershed. We already know that there's algae blooms in the drinking water that we have out of Beaver Lake. It hasn't been critical, but it's been evident, and that is certainly a sign that we need to be watching what we're doing. When you look at the overall makeup of the state legislature, very few of those individuals actually live in a watershed as important as the White River watershed or the Illinois River watershed. Of course, the Arkansas River is also important. Other things that we have to look at is the critical impact on smaller watersheds that eventually lead to our drinking water. It also impacts tourism. If you go to states that have beautiful tourism-type streams, areas in the Appalachians, up in the Midwest, The tourism industry has completely been destroyed because of the proliferation of large commercial industrial animal waste. And anyone that has any sensibility knows that an upfront expense to impair our water is not a long-term expense. Good long-term decision. So Everyone especially those of us that are have two very important Watersheds and our city and in our area should take a minute and contact their state legislatures to let them know that there is a real impact in the long run and it could impair tourism as well as the drinking water standards that we have here in Northwest, Arkansas and I agree with the mayor this has to be the worst legislation I've seen. Well, right up there. It's close. There's certainly that sneaky legislation having to do with the civil rights. it seems like Fayetteville is targeted and I'm not trying to be paranoid but we have so many things where we're working so hard in northwest Arkansas only to be sidelined by our state legislature so that's that's my two cents and I'm I'm glad that I had a minute to say a few words thank you Mark Yeah, I want to thank Theresa Turk for bringing this to us. I like to float. I float the Illinois and Oklahoma and I've floated the Buffalo. The first time I went out to float in Oklahoma and Illinois, there's all these warnings about not getting in the water. and I'm like, surely they're just being too cautious. And I did get in the water, and literally my skin hurt for a week, and that's not something that I want to bring to this state, especially if I'm going to drink it. So I think it's important that we kind of stop this here. I totally agree. Okay, what public comment do we have on this? All right, seeing none, I'll bring you back to the council. I also want to say, Teresa, I really appreciate you bringing this forward. It's really a very important resolution, and I still maintain it's some of the worst legislation I've ever seen. It's also very timely because it will be heard this week again. Yes. I'm sure it will be even more popular. That being said, Teresa – oh, I'm sorry, Sarah, you were – Thank you, Don, for reminding me. So this bill actually passed the Senate today, and it's headed for the House Agricultural Committee. I believe it's going to be heard tomorrow. So please call and write your legislatures that are on the House Ag Committee. Thank you. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Donald? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Senator, would you please call the roll? Morgan? Yes. Okay. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes All right. Thank you all very much. All right Next order business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 5th, 2019 City Council Meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of six critical spare circuit breakers for the Westside Wastewater Treatment Facility from Graybar Electric Company, incorporated in the amount of $57,725 plus flexible taxes pursuant to a U.S. Community's National Cooperative Purchasing Program contract and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 19-20 and to authorize a contract with Franklin Sun Incorporated in the amount of $195,000 for a roof replacement at the Nolan Treatment Facility Administration Building to approve a project contingency in the amount of $19,500 and approve a budget adjustment. 4. Resolution to award bid number 19-22 and to authorize a contract NEC incorporated in the amount of $427,623.50 for construction of the Cedarwood and Glenwood Drainage Improvements Project and to approve the project contains in the amount of $42,700.00. Number five, a resolution to authorize the sale of about 3,123 square feet of land and fee simple and convey and access easement of about 2,163 square feet near the Gully Road water tank to Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation for the total sum of $5,387.50. Number six... a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with the university of arkansas for the installation and maintenance of special street name signs on certain roadways on or near the university of arkansas campus and number seven a resolution authorized purchase of 40 gtac tablet computers with extended warranties and accessory components from cdwg incorporated for the amount of 145 360 plus taxes presented to a national ipa technology solutions co-op to a purchasing agreement for use by the police department i'll entertain a motion except consent agendas red sarah still moved and sarah i'll second that we have a motion and a second to accept a consent agenda as read sundry would you please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6488 for approximately .42 acres located at 825 West Montgomery Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units. per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sarah? So moved. Do we have a second? Kyle? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 18-6488 for approximately 0.42 acres located at 825 west montgomery street from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general and i think we have some news from mr garner stole on this mayor okay mayor and council the applicant has submitted a bill of assurance for your consideration That bill of assurance would restrict the height to two stories, would restrict the uses to either single family or duplexes, and would set a minimum of a 15-foot setback from the front yard, which protects that sharp curve that the neighborhood was concerned about. Those changes, I understand he's also wanted to go back to his original request of RMF 6, residential multifamily, six units per acre? That is correct. And I guess I'd like to probably hear that from him. Yes. Good evening. I'm here representing Mr. Tim Ballard for 820 Montgomery. He has said that he would be willing to go back to RMF 6 and follow the bill of insurance. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. We have handed out to the council an amended, potential amended ordinance that does exactly what Garner Stoll, the applicant, has said. So I'll just have that handed out for you, so for your convenience. Okay. So. Do we add the bill of assurance now? Do we need an amendment to add the bill of assurance now? Well, you can do the amendment now or you can open it up for any public comment. I think they would like to hear from the public on this in the neighborhood if that's all right with the council first. It's what you ever want to do. All right. We will take some public hearing, but we will hear from the public, but here's the rules everybody. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You get five minutes unless the council member decides to give you more minutes. That takes a motion and a second and a majority of the council or they can ask you questions and keep you at the podium. Otherwise you get one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments addressed to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or anybody out in the public. uh stay on topic uh right now we're talking about the bill of assurance well you're talking about the new rezoning request which is rmf6 with the bill of assurance so which would limit it to two duplexes uh or two single family houses not more than two stories high and do we have a picture of that on the screen that we can put up garner so everybody can see it no we do so you'll have you'll just need to remind people of their time limit because they can't see the time and the screen okay cool everybody with me uh so give us your name and address and here we go okay but my name is james oliver and i live next door to this property and i don't have any complaints about building a single dwelling for families or even two but duplexes I'm afraid they're going to have some problem with parking because if you have two duplexes, that's going to be about eight cars in there. Are they going to have sufficient room to park that many cars? There's several of us come up from this addition today, and we all love living down there. It's a nice neighborhood, and we're just afraid that they start building two-story buildings in there. It's going to... it's going to affect all of us that live down there. And, well, we don't want to see it changed, you know, that much. But if they want to build two houses in there, that would be great. But that's, well, that's all I need to say. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Teresa Youngblood. I live at 40 West Greenwood Street, and I'm asking you to deny the rezoning request for RMF 6 and instead to vote for the compromise that was suggested by Mr. Stoll last time of RSF 8. First, I want to thank you all for taking the three nights to do the three full readings of this agenda item. The extended time has allowed fully one-third of our 31 households to come before you, and that is a great success for accessibility, transparency, and meaningful dialogue between elected officials and their constituents. I'm going to ask you to go one step further and take the people-first action of voting for a rezoning of RSF 8, residential single-family 8, and here's why. The RMF6 zoning, which was the applicant's initial request, is an intense zoning that's far more intense than this property actually needs or which the developer plans on using. The main reason for the zoning of RMF6 is to eliminate the conditional use status on the property, meaning that the developer will not be obligated to wait a few extra weeks and potentially spend some extra money showing his plans to you all and to the city planning staff. In other words, there'll be no condition for him to prove. He builds what he wants to build, no wait time. I can understand wanting to expedite the process and to save money, and I can understand that the city has secured a bill of assurance for the property, saying that the developer can't build more than his intended two single-family homes or two duplexes. I appreciate this action taken on behalf of the residents who live there. But here's the thing. Your zone, if you zone that property RMF 6, he builds what he wants, he sells the building, he goes back to Texas, and his piece of our shared story is over. But we residents now need to live with that RMF 6 zoning. Here's something else you might need to know. A company called Race Real Estate recently bought the one acre property that comprises most of the east side of our neighborhood, boarding 71. They already approached two of my neighbors whose homes are closest to that property, offering to buy their homes for handsome prices. So that's Race Real Estate. Walker Real Estate owns very large tracts of undeveloped land over 120 acres along and well beyond our entire west and south side. So on three sides now, our neighborhood is completely consumed by real estate companies. The fourth side is actually the Fulbright Expressway itself. So maybe you can see where I'm going with this. I'm concerned that if you move forward with the RMF6 zoning, Developer and real estate companies with a lot more resources than we neighbors have will have a much easier time flipping properties from single family to multifamily, and the character of our neighborhood will be changed to the point of unrecognizability. The easy pace of the red rider wagons and the long leash dogs and the street games of four square, which I described to you all last time, will disappear. the rmf6 zoning is the slippery slope it is in name and deed changing our neighborhood from single family to mf multi-family and we neighbors are the ones assuming all the risk the developer wants something very simple and very reasonable to be able to build two dwellings on a rather sizable piece of land we neighbors are happy and ready to welcome new families to our midst You'll recall that initially I asked for y'all to keep the lower density RSF4 zoning. However, I recognize the need to compromise and work together here, so the RSF8 seems to me like a reasonable compromise. When you vote for RSF8, single family, SF, you are allowing him to build what he wants and yes, maybe have to wait a few extra weeks, submit his plans ahead of time, etc., but you're voting for the integrity of our and every single family neighborhood. It's not just the applicant who's eager for this issue to come to a conclusion. The two real estate companies who own the acreage that surround us are eagerly watching this application, too, to see which way you are all going to vote. You've met a third of us now, and we're asking you to include our voices in this vote. You could vote solely for the developers. You could vote for a dense, intense development at all costs, no questions asked, no pause taken. But you could vote for more. You could vote for an older, affordable, discrete pocket of a single-family neighborhood's right to exist. I'm asking you to vote for us. Vote for neighborhoods that still look and feel like neighborhoods. Vote for developers being compelled to be neighborly when they want to vote when they want to build in neighborhoods to yes take the time To show their plans to you and the city staff Vote for residents who want to believe that the city's thoughtful and ethical growth is not going to sell out their experience of home and place Thank you. Thank you There's a question So are you representing all 31 households, or is this just your opinion? No, this is my opinion, and you'll hear from some more of my neighbors here tonight. Okay, thank you. I know that Council Member Turk had asked, is this one of the ones she asked to hold for two weeks? Yes. Okay. All right. Who would like to address this next? Peter? Mayor, I'm Peter Tonneson from Ward 3. Last week, I pointed out that in the energy action plan that the city published, it said 50% of Fayetteville's residents live in single-family homes. And I want to put that in context because here again, we've got another RSF4 feather being plucked. Here again, we have neighbors showing up to say they don't want it. And thankfully, then, as the lady said there, I guess this is on the third reading. So there's been an opportunity at least for the community to be heard. Here are some statistics from the 2000 United States census. Of the 115.9 million housing units, 60.3% were single-family houses not attached to any other structure. My point is there's nothing abnormal about wanting to live in a single-family home. And this is true all around the world. In Europe, the latest statistics I had were from 2015, one-third of Europeans live in detached houses. The numbers vary greatly. In Malta, it's only 4%, but that's one of the most crowded places on earth. Denmark's 48%. Greece is 35%. France, 40%. These are single-family homes. Austria, where is that? I lived there for a year. I can't find it right now. Netherlands is only 14% for obvious reasons. Austria, 39%. Poland, 40%. Sweden, 42%. Norway, 58%. There's absolutely nothing abnormal or greedy about human beings wanting to have their own homes. In fact, if you look back in history... Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, I visited Alaska for three weeks. I stayed in an Eskimo home. They have single family homes. They're made out of three quarter inch plywood and they smell a lot like fish, but they want each family has its own home. And that's very, very normal. Uh, Also, let me make this point. It's not only wealthy people who want to have single-family homes. I think we'll all remember the economic crash of 2008 that was caused by a real estate bubble in the United States. That started in 1992 with the Housing and Community Development Act, which was an affordable housing loan purchase mandate. that 30% or more of Fannie and Freddie's loan purchases, that's Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, had to be related to affordable housing. During the Clinton administration in the later years, HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo raised the percentage from – it had raised to 42 percent, and Secretary Cuomo raised it to 50 percent. And George W. Bush raised it even farther to 56 percent before the whole thing came crashing down. Now, it wasn't just – issue that they were lending to subprime borrowers. There were many issues. There was a lot of corruption on Wall Street that contributed to the disaster. But the fact is that four million people who were poor and probably shouldn't have gotten in over their heads in housing wanted single family homes. This is a very normal desire. Indians lived in In New York State, where you had the Iroquois, who were very warlike people, and constantly raided and killed one another, they could come out of the woods without warning. And so there they lived in longhouses. They lived in a kind of dense housing for self-protection and survival. But there's absolutely nothing abnormal about people in Fayetteville or in America wanting to live in single-family homes. I know there are other issues... involved other than just what people want, but that's all I've got to say for now. Thank you, Pete. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello again. Thank you guys so much for being here today. I know that it is time and effort and energy, and it takes so much work than just what we see here, so thank you. My name is Linda Baker, and I am so blessed to be able to own a home in this neighborhood that we're discussing. Thank you. The entrance to this neighborhood we talked about last time being very difficult with a 180 degree slowing down to five miles an hour and talking about the caps in a neighborhood and I was surprised to learn that the reason for the cap is for fire safety. A neighborhood with a single entrance and exit is only supposed to have 30 homes so that a fire truck can get out there. We already have more than 30 homes currently, and we're still here, you know, supporting infill, appropriate, positive infill. And I would like that. safety to matter and someone said I talked to someone today and they said well the duplexes would probably have to put in sprinklers and You know that's all well and good except when my house is on fire And I'm watching the fire truck trying to make a hairpin turn to put out my fire and someone's parked in the street and blocked Them and they can't get by and So there's that line of sight issue that we talked about. It's another corner, almost like an S, Z. And when you're coming this way, you need to be able to see this way so that you don't hit them, because it's very tiny and it's not really wide enough for two cars to make that turn at the same time. So if this kind of precedent rezoning occurs, I think that's what we're all concerned about. We very much have our pulse on who owns what properties in the neighborhood and when properties came for sale. I had friends of mine, friends and family go look at this rock house and it just frankly wasn't priced for someone to purchase it and renovate it and live in it and love it it was priced for a developer to come in and tear it down and put two duplexes or whatever up and so we're just worried that the character of our Neighborhood will change in that large tract of land that you know has one house on it right now Which I don't know if you can see in that picture, but it's got one house and all this land and it would be Wow probably resound based on precedence and You know what who's gonna fix the ingress and egress to our road to account for another? 35 dwellings and this increased number of residences that we would have to expect you know i have a lot of questions like how is this bill of assurance enforced for the requested rmf6 you know i was told that you know zoning enforcement happened and people would go out and make them take it down you know but that's if we caught it if it was built would they still have to undo it you know are we Just that's a question I had and I wanted other people to hear the answer. How many single-family neighborhoods have this mixed use in Fayetteville where they have multifamily? How many of them are only one block large? How will being in a mixed-use neighborhood with poor ingress and egress fire safety affect my property value? Why hasn't this developer met with the residents in the last three months to try and make a good faith compromise if we're right back to where we started originally? I feel that, you know, Teresa made some really good points and we would really like to retain the single family that we have right now. And I saw a bumper sticker today and I said, cute, faithful, funky. We're funky. You know, we are by definition, unconventionally stylish, quirky. I'm like. We need to keep that. It's not we are funky. It's keep Fayetteville funky. There's a please attached there. And you guys are kind of the gatekeepers to that. And what we're selling here to these developers and what people are wanting to buy into is this community that, like Teresa said, are the people who built it. And we're assuming all the risk. And we're not really, you know... Getting that partnership with this developer that we feel like, you know, should probably be the way development and progress works. It should be a team effort. And, you know, there's no I in team. And this definitely hasn't had the feeling from the developer's side anyways in our perspective, in my perspective, of a team effort. It's been very much we're going to ask for the moon and then... will compromise back down you know so single family is what I'm asking for today let them build two single family homes we would love to welcome new families to the neighborhood and if they could be sold and owned that seems even better because I'm all for affordable home ownership for all thank you thank you who else would like to address Hello, my name is Robert Davis. I have lived in this neighborhood for about a year now. And in that time, I've seen an influx of families with kids. I get to watch these kids play in the neighborhood and it feels very safe. And the elderly look over the neighborhood and I love that. I want to believe that we live in a democracy. Sadly in most cases, money and influence prevail over the people. however in this case the only thing that should matter is the will of the neighborhood and it's pretty apparent to me that the neighborhood has turned out in great force here and we all stand for the neighborhood retaining its identity of single family so you know since the neighborhood has spoken i think that it'd be wise to vote with the people and not with the business um By myself, I don't want any form of a duplex at all or multi-level dwelling. If it were up to me, I'd make the Rock House a historic landmark because it's that cool. That's pretty much it. Thank you for your time. Really appreciate you guys. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, this is an amendment for the bill of assurance from what I understand correct kit that we're voting on Well, is it I don't think there's been a motion yet. Oh, I'm sorry. So, um, I guess I got a question for staff How tall is billing a building allowed now? It's presently allowed at three stories the RMF six and Does that limit it or does the bill of assurance? It's the bill of assurance both the RSF for which is the present zoning allows three-story buildings and the RMF6 also allows three-story buildings Are there any different design standards its current zoning versus what we're looking at? No, not it not for duplexes if if they went to apartments or Under the RFF six multifamily. Yes Thank you. Okay, sir. I mean we amends to include the What do I need to say here? Move we accept the amendments? Make an amendment to what was handed out tonight that has a new wording for the ordinance and it does have the attached bill of assurance and it's subject to the bill of assurance and just for the public's information, the bill of assurance becomes part of the zoning if the zoning is approved subject to it and it runs with the land. They can't get rid of that bill of assurance. Only if they bring it back for the city council like a rezoning could the bill of assurance be changed. It's always been my understanding that a bill of assurance can't be changed unless the council agrees to change it with whoever the property owner is. So it goes with the property. So, sir, are you making a motion to add the bill of assurance? Yes. Do you have a motion to second? We have a motion to second to add the bill of assurance. Any discussion on that from the council? All right. Senators, please call the roll. Roggin. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. Okay, now we have the amended ordinance as a whole. So what discussion do we have with council on that? All right, well, all right, Kyle. So I supported the amendment because I think that it is better than the NSG that we were looking at before, even though I understand it's not exactly what the neighborhood was asking for. Before we vote on what's now RMS 6, Garner, could you kind of – In a little more detail, what is the difference, the functional difference between RMF6 with the restrictions here versus the RSF8 that the neighbors are asking for that we talked about some last week? The RSF8 is a single-family district that allows single-family homes on 5,000-square-foot lots. It includes duplexes as a conditional use. So duplexes would not be allowed by right. An applicant could ask for a conditional use to get approval for a duplex. So the RSF-8 is a single family district in terms of the permitted uses. So the big difference would be that if we went to single family 8, we would not have the restrictions in the bill of assurance that include the height. No, you wouldn't. And under the multifamily, the neighbors lose the extra review of the conditional use process? That's correct. Thank you. Okay. Don? When you all travel, you send information to me to make sure that I announce at the council meeting. So there was a request from Council Member Gutierrez. The mayor referenced it already, requesting that this is in Ward 1. And she would like to have it held until she can return, as well as the Whippoorwill item. That was her formal request tonight for you. We did communicate to her that you can honor it or you can move forward. It's up to the council, but we wanted to speak on her behalf for the email she sent. Okay. Since we've already suspended the rules and gone to the third reading, would we have to suspend the rules and go back? No, you just have to do a motion to table. If you don't table it, then a vote must occur one way or the other, but you can move the table to the next meeting. And the only reason I went to the third reading is that Kit's going to read it again. And so we can table it and hold it right here on the request by Councilman Koteckis. Yes. If you do table, please table date certain to the next meeting. Yes. Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry, Don. I didn't hear what you just said. If we table it. If you table it, just table it to the next meeting, given the actual date of the table. Right. And what that does also is crystal clear to the neighborhood and to the developer and everybody else exactly what is before the city council at the next meeting. Okay. Well, the bill of assurance changes my mind a little bit, but Sonia did ask that we would table this or hold it, and I feel that that's appropriate now in this instance so I'd like to make a motion that we table this until our next meeting which is two weeks We have a motion and second table for two weeks What discussion do we have council on that one all right? So would you please call the roll with the mayor and secondary police put their motions in all right? That's my fault I So I'm just trying to make sure we're not a five Tuesday months. This is 19th. It'll be on the second April Yes, yes, yes Yes Thank you all very much number two in order to stem in 161 point to district our old residential office and 161.21 District C1 Neighborhood Commercial, 161.23 District C2 Thoroughfare Commercial, 161.25 District C3 Central Commercial, and 166.24 Non-Residential Design Standards of the Federal Unified Development Code to provide a form-based development option for Districts R0, C1, C2, and C3. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Kyle? So moved. We have a second. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Mann? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In your order to amend Section 161.20, District RO Residential Office, Section 161.21, District C1 Neighborhood Commercial. Section 16123, District C2, Thoroughfare Commercial. Section 16125, District C3, Central Commercial. And Section 16624, Non-Residential Design Standards of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code provide a form-based development option for Districts RO, C1, C2, and C3. As you know, we've had a lot of discussions on this. We had a discussion with the Ordinance Review Committee. I'm going to ask, exactly, we're missing two members here. I want to be able to work on some of the other issues, the Unified Development Code having to do with some of the issues I brought up before. Sure. So I think that rather than trying to pass something tonight, it would be better if we tabled it, and I will try to work in the interim and get a more comprehensive potential amendment to you all. So that's what my recommendation would be. I would also like to... I've had a very busy schedule here the last few weeks, and I would like a little more time to research this myself. I would really appreciate it if you all could table this for a couple of weeks where I've got a little more time to research some of the different options that we have here. Secretary? I move that we table this for two weeks. Second. All right. Any discussion on it? Senator, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? What was the motion? To table for two weeks. Yes. Batch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Okay. Number three, in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the condition. RZN 19-6524 for approximately 2.14 acres located at 2827 West Flipperville Lane. From RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. It's left on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. We need you. Oh, wait, I'm learning. I was like, just read it. It's shorter. Okay, well then I can read it It's pretty sure read that for being ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of property described on the map exhibit 8 and The legal description exhibit be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RSF 8 residential single-family eight units per acre and thank you for not making me read that entire ordinance before this one. Okay, so Yes, Mayor. I don't have anything to add. Our city engineer, Chris Brown, did some additional research. There were questions from the council members about what the existing pond did in terms of retention. He's here to address that or he can do it in response to your questions if you prefer that. Brad Brown from Ross Homes is here, the applicant, and he wants to talk to you. Okay. Let's get comments from the applicant, and then we'll have Chris, if you wish for him to, to answer whatever questions you've got about the pond and the dragnets in the air. Yes, sir. Good evening. I'm Brad Brown. I'm representing the Roth family, Roth Custom Homes by Roth, as who would build the houses on this property, but lead equity group of Arkansas, and I think Roth Family Partnership owns the property in question. I'm here to kind of shed a little bit of light onto what we actually are intending to do with the property from the Planning Commission meeting and the first City Council meeting, a lot of questions were brought up from the residents and from you guys on what we were going to be doing with the property. First, I want to give a little background on the property. We acquired this property, I think, in three or four years ago as part of a trade for another house we built out in Goshen. The people that own the property had been there for a couple of years. They liked the house we built. We said, well, we'll take your house and the property for the house that we have there. At that point we just thought, cool, some land in Fayetteville, a house that we can rent out. Or we were going to remodel it and sell it originally, and it ended up no one likes the floor plan of that house, so we're renting it out as of right now. The pond and the land surrounding the pond was just a bonus to have. Cool, let's ride on 265. It wasn't until late last year that we decided, well, let's do something with this property. After the housing market crashed, a lot of builders like us, we would go after neighborhoods that had been foreclosed on by the bank, taken back. As properties getting more scarce and property values are raising up new construction lots are just hard to come by at a decent price So we said well, let's let's look and see what we can do with this property as RSF for Right now we could put according to zoning. We could put four houses on it based off of lot width and This is mainly because the property is relatively deep from Whippoorwill to the back of the property line. And to split it up into RSF4... If you just look at it as RSF4, we should be able to put eight there, but we can't because of street frontage. What we're looking at doing is putting, I believe it's six more lots on there, including that and keeping the house that is currently at 2827 East Whippoorwill. And keeping that house in play, splitting it into six more lots below the house from there to crossover and building houses that... In a relative term, we are calling affordable housing in the area. If you go to East Fayetteville right now and you pull up Zillow or any other realtor website, you're going to find that houses in that area on... 40 on highway 45 on mission farther down on crossover up in Stone Mountain. I believe you're going to be paying 500, $600,000 for a house. What we're looking at building is not necessarily $250,000 for a house, but maybe around the 300, 325,000. I grew up in Fayetteville. I went to Root Elementary School, I went to McNair Middle School when it was, well, I was a seventh grader when it opened, so I was there for a year, went to Woodland Junior High and went to Fayetteville High School. That east side of town, being in that school district was a plus. We didn't even realize that property was in Root School District until we started really looking further into this. knowing that I grew up in Mount Sequoia behind behind root was able to walk to school there knowing that that school is a good school my mom taught there my aunt taught there excuse me just please silence cell phones thank you So, we saw this property as, well, excellent, jackpot. You can put houses here and kids can go to a school that I know is a good school and is one of the highest, I guess, rated schools in the Fayetteville School District. So, that's why we're really going for this is to split that. The talk of putting 16 houses on this because it's over two acres and it's RSF8, what we're That's not something that we're looking to do. To make it affordable, we're trying to make it to where we can just get these lots out of it that we're trying to get and build our houses on it that will be relatively nice. I mean, we build a nice home. We build houses all over Northwest Arkansas. We're not trying to build some cheap box that we're setting up there to try and make a quick buck. That's one thing I've heard a lot about, about how we're just trying to make a quick buck. We're just trying to put more houses out there for people to buy in an area that there's not a lot that people can buy at a reasonable price. So that's that's really what we're trying to do there. What you see on that plan is of what we submitted is really what we're planning on doing. We don't intend to sell it. We with as hard as it is to actually get lots to build on. We do not intend to sell it. We're going to build it. We will sell the houses. I fully intend on probably keeping the one that's right on crossover with the noise with the noise concerns. as a rental most likely like we've had some council members say not everybody that's renting a house is a lowlife you know that's the people they're renting houses that's what they've got to do at this point in time home ownership may not be for them so we'll have that rental there we'll have our rental at twenty eight twenty seven but we fully intend to sell the other houses We heard concerns about traffic on the street and eight driveways dropping out onto Whippoorwill. We don't fully know exactly what we'll be able to do there yet. We've tossed around a couple different ideas, putting an alleyway to the back that would be one entrance into it and have reload garages. For families, that's not necessarily something that you would want. You want families to be able to move in there, have a backyard, a place their kids can play, don't have to worry about cars moving up and down an alley. Another thought we've had was possibly doing almost like a circle drive in the front, similar to what one of the residents brought up was a neighborhood off a township that had a street that went through and the house is loaded off the township but there were three or four houses back there and they have their individual drive driveways off of this circle drive type area We've tossed that around to make it to where we don't affect the neighbors on Whippoorwill with all these driveways and more cars backing out onto the street. We're still tossing that idea around. I am fully in favor of that as long as we can get it through the way that the Planning Commission and everybody, when we go onto the lot splits and going on with what we have to go with there. We're still tossing around the idea, but we're just trying to make it, We don't want to impact the neighborhood in a negative way. We're not trying to do that. We're trying to build some nice houses, help raise property values in the neighborhood, because right now we're looking at probably selling 120, 130, 140, 150 a square foot. That's higher than the houses in the neighborhood are right now. We're looking to only help... with the neighborhood property value wise and build a nice product that they won't be ashamed of to have to drive by on their way into their house at the end of the day or leaving in the morning so i'll be glad to answer any questions you guys have um like i said we're just we're just trying to play in the city of fayetteville and have a good time in the city of fayetteville and build some nice product what did you say you were building those houses for what how much a It could be anywhere from $120,000 to $150,000. I haven't really looked into it. We're looking at trying to sell them around that $300,000 mark just by basing it off of the market as it is right now. If we end up a little bit higher, then that's okay because it still is lower than anything else in that particular area. Okay. Mark? Yeah. I just have one thing to say and that is you have a beautiful vision that I've been tricked before So I've been around the block a few times What we're looking at when we look at re Zoning a property is the possibility of what could be there if for some reason You all sold the property or you changed your mind or your vision changed? so You know, you could be putting little pink houses of Tiki-Taki. We've all heard the song. Or you could be putting in a grand mansion. That's not what we're talking about when we talk about rezoning because that doesn't come with the zoning. Correct. What comes with the zoning and what we're hearing from the neighbors and the neighborhood is the possibilities of what could happen. And that's what we have to consider. So I just wanted to... to say thank you for your vision. It's a lovely story, but what we have to consider is the possibilities that come with the rezoning and the property. So thanks. Yes, sir. Okay. Teresa. Yes, sir. So I didn't really hear you address the pond. So I'm guessing you're going to drain the pond. Have you thought about some of the hydrological concerns that we expressed a couple of weeks ago? Yes. So my background, I went to the University of Arkansas. I have a civil engineering degree, bachelor's and a master's degree. So I'm fully aware of how watersheds, hydrology, and everything works. The pond will most likely be filled in eventually. Um, no matter how, how it's going to go now, um, if we end up with six thoughts or if we can make it into four, um, that the, um, What we as builders and me with my background in engineering, we don't want to make an effect that will cause problems down on crossover. So knowing that you're not supposed to have any more storm water runoff off of a property from before development to after development, We will take that into the design process of how we end up doing these lots. If that means that we've gotta put some sort of bioswale or something like that that the city's really big on right now, then that's what we'll have to do. Because it has legal ramifications. If we cause problems that cause issues further downstream, then that is a true legal problem that we don't wanna have to deal with. So we will deal with that when we're building the houses. Okay. So this question is kind of for staff slash the applicant. So currently with the RSF-4, there is enough acreage to build six houses. The issue is street furniture. Is that correct? That's correct. So they could ask for a variance of street furniture and end up doing what they claim that they're interested in doing. Is that correct? Yes, another option would be an internal access way and dedicated additional right-of-way and create additional frontage possibly. The RSF4 does require a minimum of 8,000 square foot per home. Not likely, but there might be some configurations where you could share driveways and create and dedicate additional right-of-way and get the frontage without variances. Without variances. Yeah. Variants could definitely allow them to do, if it was granted, allow them to do what they want without an up-zone. Under the RSF-4, they could not without variances. Definitely could not. with variances. Right. They cut. Yeah. Okay. It looks like they're fronting on Crossover Road, too, so that would be additional right-of-way, even though obviously that's not a very good place to have driveways and stuff. But they do apparently have frontage on Crossover, which would increase their right-of-way length considerably. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chris, you want to address the pond? Is anybody interested in the pond? Yes, sir. From the staff's perspective, I'm sure you might be. Okay, so we have an exhibit here that we put together just to kind of give you the perspective of the overall drainage in the area and what the pond captures. So the total of the... colored areas is 328 acres the pond itself is It picks up about four point six acres of that 328 acres so a relatively small amount of area that the pond can impact and And if you're looking at the downstream drainage and some issues that may be occurring there, kind of on the very top of the drawing, the pond being there or not being there really doesn't impact the overall. It's about 1% of the water that's flowing off the drainageway. However, having said that, the pond does provide some stormwater services, Mainly because it leaks. It allows it to have some storage capacity. If it stayed full, it really wouldn't have any storage. It would just pass through the pond. But because it does leak, when it rains, it collects... some amount of water. We ran basically some assumptions of different types of storms, and if you did a little bit of retrofitting to the pond, you can capture about half of the flow and reduce the peak flow by about half as compared to the pond not being there. just maybe a little bit of a primer about how our code, what our code requirements are. And this pond was built prior to any of these codes being in place. So it was not designed to provide all of these services. It just does because it does. We have four minimum standards for drainage. One is water quality. development that that meets the threshold for hitting these requirements has to fully capture the first inch of water hold it on-site or treat the first 1.2 inches to reduce 80% of the total suspended solids in the water. So that's the water quality requirement. We have a channel protection requirement, and that's essentially extended detention. It holds the flow for a much longer period of time, so it doesn't... erode channels downstream and cause problems that way. Then we have the other two are extreme flood protection. So it's reducing the peak flow from between the pre and the post development for the 25 year and 100 year storm. So very large storms, those ponds hold the water back, reduce the peak flow so it is not increased. So those are typical requirements and the last thing that I want to say is because this is a single family home development, they are below the threshold where these requirements kick in. So they would not be required to do any of the detention or water quality requirements. They would not be required to meet those to build these houses. I'll answer any questions. Yeah, what was the second point that you brought up? I missed it. Capture the first. The second point, when we were talking about the – What the pond is capturing? Yeah. So it's reducing the – if the pond were taken out, the flows would increase. They would basically double. So it's capturing about half of the flow and reducing the peak flow by about 50% in basically all storms. Okay. Sloan. If this pond overflows, where does the water go? It essentially flows down to Highway 265 and into the storm drain system along Highway 265. So this isn't going into people's houses with or without that? No, it's hitting 265 and getting into that storm drain system. It actually flows along 265 where the pink area where that arrow is pointing to the left, it actually turns and flows to the west. and connects up with the grain drainage area and then flows north. Okay, thank you. Okay, Tom. Chris, as far as the potential removal of the pond, what sort of oversight or regulation is there to make sure that that's done properly? Are there any risks to land that's been that wet that long and how it's managed? They're typically for single family homes like this, we don't have a grading permit requirement or anything like that. They would just need to really work with our building safety and building inspection departments to make sure they muck out the pond well enough. Get proper soil back in there. So that houses aren't the foundations aren't damaged Right right if they if they have to place fill then there are requirements that our building inspection has that they kick in recent Thank you, Mayor. This is probably more for Garner. So the RSF-4 and the RSF-8, neither one of those would rise to the level for these four requirements that Chris just mentioned. Is that correct? Depends. If they choose the lot split method, which is capped at four per parcel, and there are two parcels here, they could do... but there are eight houses under the lot split method and then they would not come under the strong drainage requirements. Now if they do more houses than that and plant it beyond the shortcut of the lot split, they would be under our retention and water quality requirements if they were doing a subdivision. And I do want to bring this up because this comes up all the time to point this out to the council that single family does not have the same type of drainage review. It's a constant problem in Fayetteville that comes up. We see it particularly in infill situations where a lot has been vacant handling items in neighborhoods. All these times and all of a sudden he gets built on and we had a issue right in the historic district with that very issue that I know So it's just something for a future policy discussion for the council to really look at because if you use Prairie Street had a Multi-family type of development that had to go through all types of draining and engineering and approval and directly across the street Our single-family homes with the same Impervious footprint that had to have none of that review And so I just want to highlight that I think that this is a real problem in our code that needs to be looked at I think it's something that Is common to all planning? departments in every city I've ever worked and you I You always want appropriate thresholds, but thresholds over time can become loopholes and they need to be revisited. What impact are they having? You obviously want a threshold so it's reasonable, so low-impact development can happen without going through a lot of hoops. That's just normal process. There's a certain number of parking spaces that brings in additional drainage requirements. There in Fayetteville, it is single family and duplexes which don't bring in the forestry requirements and the storm drainage requirements. But it is something that needs to be revisited, I think, to see where it's having a positive impact and where it may need to be tightened up. Tracy. Okay. Anything else for Chris? Okay. Thank you, Chris. Okay. We will take some public comment. Now, let's go through the rules again. Everybody gets one turn to the mic with a five-minute limit. Unless the city council has questions for you or by a motion in a second, give you more time. Number two, keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody on the city council or anybody in the audience. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic. And please give us your name and address. Thank you. Thank you Mayor Jordan. Thank you for encouraging public participation today on the rezoning of 19-6524. My name is Laura Kate. I live at 3045 in Wood Lane. Just to address what our developer has spoken of that the houses are selling for 500 or 600,000. That is not true. There are many for sale right now that are 300 to 400,000. I bought mine four years ago for the price he is trying to get for the smaller. So there are still lots of affordable houses in some bracket up in that area. As I begin my public remarks, I wish to address the assumptions made by some council members of my old faithful neighborhood after the initial public input last council meeting. I have a chronic illness, type 1 diabetes, for the past 27 years and will be diabetic the rest of my life. I fight every day to stay alive. Without continuous insulin every minute of every day, I will no longer exist. Having had a chronic illness since I was a teenager changed my view of the world and my participation in it. I look for the best in humanity and how I can assist. I have fought for insulin for all, medical access and affordability for all, and I worry about my own coverage. I have dedicated my life championing access to medicine, educational affordability, and international food and housing security when I worked with Heifer International. In 2014, I bought my home with my husband Brandon after a review of the covenances of the Glenwood edition of one house per acre. This is my forever home. It represents the greatest singular purchase I have or will ever make. I know many of my neighbors have similar life stories. We are asking for a congeniality, respectful discourse, and acknowledgement to lead the development of our older neighborhood as is. I come to the council today acknowledging the power of your position and begging for protection of the beauty of our older established neighborhoods. I understand our council is elected to represent the constituents and balance the need of a growing city. My neighbors and I are here pleading our case for protection of unwanted development that goes against our covenances. This development does not make sense. The infrastructure needs are not in place. As Alderwoman Marsh has advocated for infrastructure support for underserved areas, I could argue that this is also our neighborhood. We do not have sidewalks. The water main line has broken multiple times since I have lived in this house. Our streets have cracks and are forming continuous potholes. We have to dodge them while driving. The engineering of the stormwater does not run off the mountain correctly. I've had to replace my retaining wall as the mountain was sliding into my home. There is always runoff at the base of Inwood unless we're in a drought. You cannot exit the neighborhood from Inwood in the winter as there is always ice at the base of the hill and you risk sliding into the traffic of crossover. The private pond has acted as a mitigating runoff system for the water on Pierce Mountain for over 50 years. Replacing this acre with impermeable roofs and concrete will only exasperate flooding on crossover in the neighborhoods and businesses across the street. I understand the need for development, but it needs to be thoughtful in consideration of the faithful citizens that are here that make up the wonderful collective of kind souls. In the end, this decision will make up a fraction of the choices you will make as a council. My neighbors and I will live with the consequences, not the developer, and the gross environmental impact that will occur. We are respectfully advocating for protection of our neighborhood and what makes Fayetteville Fayetteville. We please decline this rezoning. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? thank you mayor jordan for allowing another opportunity to be heard on this rezoning request and to restate my my opposition my name is brandon kate that was my wife who just spoke we live at 3045 east in wood lane which is in ward one our home is one of the 20 lots that comprise the glendale edition neighborhood in east fable The rezoning request concerns two of those 20 lots in our neighborhood. The developer made a comment about $500,000 and $600,000 homes out there. That's not true of this neighborhood at all. We paid $250,000 for this house in 2014, and I think that price is pretty consistent with what we see in our neighborhood. We are not a bunch of rich folks with these $500,000 homes. There was a mention of the they're tossing around ideas and trying to come up with a plan We haven't heard from the developers. They haven't met with our neighborhood to talk about their ideas or hear our input, so You know he the developer representative talked about going to root and growing up on Mount Sequoia Why I went to root I grew up behind Dylan's grocery store on mission I know this area too, and I've got real concerns that this is just not a good fit and The Glendale Addition was formed in 1968 and is subject to protective covenants that were recorded in the Book of Deeds and then amended a year later in 1969. The Glendale Addition has never had a POA or a Homeowners Association because none was ever contemplated by the protective covenants. The protective covenants rather say that any lot owner may sue to enforce the protective covenants. We believe that anything that puts more than one house per lot on these lots by these Benton County entities, the Elite Equity Group and the Roth Family Partnership, violates the Glendale Addition's protective covenants. Paragraph 1 of those covenants states that there's only one resident shall be elected on any one one-acre lot. This restriction has never been violated on our 20 lots. It has been observed by all lot owners since 1968. THEREFORE, I HAVE FILED A LAWSUIT IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF WASHINGTON COUNTY TO SEEK A DECLARATION FROM JUDGE MARTIN THAT THESE ENTITIES NOT BE PERMITTED TO VIOLATE OUR PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. I FILED THIS LAWSUIT SINCE THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING, SO I WANTED TO LET THE COUNCIL KNOW OF THIS DEVELOPMENT. THE CITY IS NOT A PARTY TO THE LAWSUIT OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT. BUT THE LAWSUIT WILL DETERMINE, NO MATTER WHAT HAPPENS ON THIS ZONING QUESTION, WHETHER THESE METTON COUNTY ENTITIES HAVE TO FOLLOW OUR PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. The lawsuit notwithstanding, I still oppose this rezoning request. I took my five minutes last time to speak about neighborhood history and integrity issues. This evening, I want to speak on my environmental concerns. And I really appreciate Mr. Brown looking at this and the map that he showed. I lived in that blue oval that he had. And I just want to share with you some of my real-life experiences. Thank you. The Glendale addition consists of the loop of Whippoorwill Lane and Inwood Lane coming off of Crossover Road. That blue circle, that's pretty much our neighborhood. We sit on the northwest side at the base of what I'm told by Charlie Allison is historically known as Pierce Mountain. It's a steep decline there. That's what, at the base around that pond is where they could potentially put up to 16 houses if this rezoning is approved. That would almost double the residences in our neighborhood. We currently have 19. This would bump us up to 34. I made a FOIA request for the development plans that were submitted with the rezoning request and as they acknowledged tonight, they do seek to remove the pond entirely. The drainage issues in our neighborhood really concern me, and I don't think that they've been adequately considered by the rezoning, by the developer. When it rains, the water will trickle down Pierce Mountain for days afterwards and pool at the base of Whippoorwill and Inwood, including in the area of the proposed rezoning. This trickling rainwater already causes water issues for me and my neighbors. First, after two recent storms, there was a broken water pipe. I see my time is running out, but after the earthquake in northeast Oklahoma in 2015, it shifted things up there, and we started getting water intrusion in our house. I brought pictures of that if anyone wants to see those. But we had to spend a lot of money to figure out how to keep the water out of our house. We had to build a new retaining wall, and we had to put in a new French drain. I think my neighbors, I'm not alone in that regard. A lot of people have water issues. So I'm just really concerned. where the water's gonna go if this development is approved. I'm not an expert in water issues, but I live, I see the water pool at the base of Inwood and it freezes. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. Thank you. Good evening, my name is Steve Murray. I live at 1667 North Stardust Lane. The neighborhood with the lot being considered for rezoning is filled with residents from all walks of life. from those who grew up in rural Arkansas to people who have lived in metropolitans such as Houston and Chicago. There are folks who grow and sell produce at the Fava Farms market. Those are entrepreneurs and those with advanced degrees such as educators and attorneys at law. As neighbors have reached out to one another on their views of this rezoning proposal, I am not aware of anyone in favor of this rezoning. That makes this an unanimous decision Opinion by the residents in the neighborhood to reject this proposal. The lot is the only one remaining in the neighborhood that is undeveloped. The residents do not want the character of this well established neighborhood to be disturbed. Also, the lot has water drainage concerns, which may be why this is the only lot that has not been previously developed. We bought our home approximately two years ago for less than $230,000. I appreciate your consideration to reject this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I'm generally familiar with this area because my dentist is down there, and so is Penguin Ed's. Thank you. Again, I don't know why they called it City Plan 2030. Under City Plan 2030, this is RSF4. And these people had an expectation that it would be RSF4. The only point I want to make right now is that, and there is litigation in New York that I've been reading. I haven't come to an answer on that yet. But I believe the city has the power, as Mr. Williams said, of zoning and the city is not directly constrained by the covenants. But whoever owns that land is. And the other homeowners, I think, should be able to enjoin him from even coming here and asking to have it rezoned because he's violating the covenants. And if he succeeds at getting it rezoned, then they can sue him for damages because he's violating the covenants. So I think the city should think carefully before it just, I'm not saying the city has exposure in this, but you may be kind of wasting your time and just inviting trouble that doesn't have to be there if everybody would play according to the expectations created by the covenants and by your own city plan. Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address this on this? Hi, I'm Chris McGinnis. I live with my wife and daughter on 2930 East Inwood Lane. I've found a few statements that have been used during campaigns in the various times. I do not want Fayetteville to become homogenized and look like every other city in America. Established neighborhoods with similar style and size dwellings, we have to maintain established neighborhoods with similar style and size dwellings and eliminate spot zoning. balance growth while maintaining unique character of the city we all cherish. Support responsible development that has a keen eye towards creating safe, walkable neighborhoods. Different areas have different characteristics that must be respected with new development. Design streets to slow down traffic and create safe, walkable neighborhoods. Favor people over cars. These are some of the things that brought me to what I'm going to say. The drainage has been addressed by these people and is a very strong concern today. So I'm not going to go over that. Character. We've expressed our beliefs that maintaining character is important. Some of you share these beliefs and some feel that change is inevitable. Please believe that why change may seem inevitable to you, it's not always responsible in every situation. Just because something works in one place doesn't mean it works in all places. Keep Fayetteville funky, not confusing, cluttered, and dangerous beyond repair. Traffic safety and walkability. We do not have infrastructure to handle this density directly funneling onto Crossover. This only slows down traffic on a highway meant to move people quickly. At the same time, it will require traffic to be diverted within the neighborhood up and around a blind wooded horseshoe curve to the other side of the neighborhood, only to end up in the same place on Crossover 50 yards farther south with the hope that you will have an easier exit. Kyle Smith posted some interesting stuff about a strode, the combination of a street and a road. This is what a crossover is. I watched this video. I encourage you to watch it. It is incredibly dangerous, and that's what is stated over and over and over in that video. It is incredibly dangerous and financially inefficient. We are stuck in this situation. Adding density in this location only puts us farther behind. Please don't assume, because we're adjacent to Sutter, that we are structurally the same neighborhood. Please visit our neighborhood. We have a lot of people in this neighborhood. We have no sidewalks. We have beautiful wooded lots with no way of seeing oncoming vehicles around corners. Setter has multiple access points including Mission, Crossover, and Star Drive. We only have Crossover. Period. When I took my children to Root School, I used Crossover. When I took them to McNair, I used Crossover. When I took them to Woodland, I used Crossover. Now I take one to FHS and one to Woodland, and I use Crossover. Our neighborhood is isolated to using Crossover. We don't have a safe back way out of our neighborhood. This is it. If existing neighborhood wasn't bad enough, imagine trying to turn back into our neighborhood across two lanes of oncoming or stalled traffic on Crossover. Sitting in a turn lane for minutes at a time will only get worse with this density. Having someone stop short of your road on a congested Crossover and wave you through is not the safest way for you to get to your home. Now imagine putting more vehicles directly in that dangerous position. If a couple more vehicles are exiting these little row houses they're suggesting, it makes entering Whippoorwill delayed once again. Or worse, someone fails to make it all the way off a crossover and their bumper sticks out into the roadway of crossover. This is incredibly dangerous. Imagine now taking that situation and adding pedestrians and cyclists, which is what our city supports. It's even more impossible and dangerous. A blind horseshoe curve is not accommodating to pedestrians or cyclists if traffic increases. We must walk in the streets. This zoning increase dramatically will increase the traffic through our neighborhood. City engineer told me that their goal is to slow down traffic and make streets safer. This zoning will increase the danger not only to cars but to pedestrians and cyclists. Please come see our neighborhood yourself. This is a huge danger to anyone that travels through this. Our neighborhoods on Crossover have multiple, other neighborhoods on Crossover have multiple ways to exit or lower density than what's being proposed here. We are too near a major intersection that already has traffic flow problems. This is dangerous for us. Please, if you have any concerns, address me and talk about this. I know communication is important, and this is my second council meeting, and it won't be my last, but I really appreciate the communication from Mr. Smith and a few of you others. It has really helped. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello. My name is Ray Parker. I live at 2965 East Inwood, and I'd like to thank the mayor and the city council members for allowing me to speak now for the third time today. I'd like to bring up a couple of issues. One is storm drainage, which a number of people have addressed. So I hope this will not be repetitive, but will be reinforcing. And also I'd like to talk a bit about traffic on crossover. The land that sits at the base of Whippoorwill is at the bottom of a steep decline from the northwestern edge of Pierce Mountains. During heavy rain, mountain water rushes down the hillside, pooling at the bases of both Inwood and Whippoorwill lanes. Residents, as some have already testified, can point out the damage of this water. We have had to reinforce our retaining wall twice. I've had to build a new wall on my studio to keep the water out. It comes down with extraordinary force. The only thing that can slow down this water is landscape barriers and natural forestation. Inwood has the advantage of having a switchback trail, the same as Lever's Lane. So it crosses many yards. The neighbors have built in many draining systems and walls to slow that water down. Whippoorwill does not have that. It's a straight shot down the street. Compounding this problem, of the water coming down the street is that 2827 Whippoorwill. You've got 150 trees in addition to the retaining pond. Once you take out those trees, once you take out the pond, you've mitigated any resistance to the stormwater coming down. And I appreciate Mr. Brown's comments about the water. But in his study, I hope he did take into effect the mitigating force of the trees and the creation of 50% more... non-arable surface would have at the base of Whippoorwill. My fear is that the loss of these environmental features will increase the storm drainage, which you did point out, by more than 50%. But in the event of a heavy rain, which we're having heavier rains more and more often, you've probably noticed, my fear is that it will cross, cross over, and create more traffic. tie-ups as well as creating water problems for the people who live across the street. Secondly, I want to talk briefly about Crossover Road. At 5 o'clock p.m., cars are zipping by about 50 per minute at extraordinary speed. The posted limit is 45. Most traffic is going 55-plus miles. adding possibly 16 homes to our neighborhood and 32 more cars does not decrease the number of cars on crossover. Obviously it adds to it. But the truth is that our neighborhood along Crossover Road is not a walkable neighborhood. We have narrow sidewalks. They're about 24 inches wide. They're 24 inches off the street. And with cars coming by at 50 or 60 miles an hour, it's a harrowing walk. I maintain that everyone tries it once, no one tries it a second time. Some of you here have testified that you have walked it at least once. Some of you I know have walked it recently. I would urge all of you to do it. It is not a fun walk and no matter how many houses we place at The bottom of the hill of Whippoorwill, this will never be a walking neighborhood as long as we're bordered by crossover and we have the narrow sidewalks along that street. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. Jordan. My name is from skimper and with my wife. I live at 29 of 4 East inward lane. I said, I'm here tonight to speak out against the proposed resigning of what we will lane. I thank you for giving me the time to address this and I want to tell you why I think we should not rezone the area in Whippoorwill and why it's not a good idea for our neighborhood but also not a good idea for the city of Fayetteville, the residents, our future neighbors and residents of other areas in Fayetteville. My big concern tonight is just safety, safety, safety. The only thing I wanted to address is the word strode. There's been several articles posted by members in this council that address that word as well as how to what builds strong neighborhoods. For my members and others that doesn't know what this word is, I want to read to you from an article published in StrongTowns.org on March 2nd, 2018. The strong is a word we coined in 2013 to explain those dangerous multi-lane thoroughfares you encounter in nearly every city, town, and suburb in America. They're what happens when a street, a place where people interact with businesses and residences, and wealth is produced, gets combined with a road. A high-speed route between productive places. Members of the City Council often refer to this as our tier roadway. By definition, at least to me, Crossover Road is a stroad. What this Council is voting on is to possibly give way to a residential development that will add 6 to 16 houses on Whippoorwill Lane. On two lots on the corner of a stroad, this could add 12 to 48 more people on that corner, possibly young families with kids. Additional cars having to turn off that stroad, Crossover Road, onto a road with no sidewalks. According to the founder of this webpage, Mr. Maroon, it is ridiculously dangerous to mix high-speed highway design with pedestrians, bikers, and turning traffic. If you look at 5 o'clock in the afternoon when people try to turn on center, whippable, inward, coming down crossover, it's just a dangerous situation in that center turning lane, and it's not fun to sit in there. I feel the development is good and needed for our town, but I implore you not to let this rezoning pass. By adding six to 16 houses in the corner of a dangerous road is not the way to go. Not in our neighborhood and not in other neighborhoods. You might call it info, but what I think you're creating is sprawl. And it's dangerous to the citizens of Fayetteville. It's dangerous to the people living on Whippoorwill and on Inwood Lane. And it's dangerous to the people on Crossover Road daily. I sat here and I wanted to talk more about this. And I heard my neighbors talk about some of the things that affects us daily. I'm an immigrant from South Africa. I moved here and attended the University of Arkansas. I got an education. I got a good job. I married the love of my life. And together we bought a house. We bought our forever home too. We didn't want to live in South Fayetteville, West Fayetteville, East Fayetteville, or any part of Fayetteville that had neighbors five, ten feet from me. I wanted some space. I wanted a house and a little bit of land. And that's why I chose that place. I chose that place because I knew there was a covenant that said, I have my land and I can build one house on it. I knew no one's going to creep up to me. And that's why I invested in this town, and that's why I decided to stay there. I'm living the American dream. I am what you hear when you talk about the American dream. I don't want a neighborhood to change, and I don't want my American dream to change. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Ann Justice, and I live at 2850 East Inwood, and we've lived there for 35 years. And the lot that you're talking about, I'm right adjacent to Second House, so I'm really, really close. I was going through my—turning my taxes and shredding the box from 2009, where I noted that my office had flooded. That was— One of three times since 2009. The last time was about a year or so, and I had to put in a $5,000 double-thump pump. And my neighbor, Phoebe Goodwin, told me that she had spent $25,000 keeping the water out of her house. She's right across from me. I do want to thank the gentleman from... Roth builders for giving us a little bit of information about what their plans are. And I do see that they build nice homes. But this procedure we've been through seems like you put the cart in front of the horse. We don't know what they're going to do. I don't think you know what they're going to do. And that's why we're all here today. showing you our fears. This is really causing anxiety for me. I'd like to spend hopefully the next 10 or so years right where I am since we have invested quite a bit of money in that house, and that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm one of those people that Ms. Marsh referred to as the older people that own property in the area. As my wife said, we've been there 36 years. We have spent our lives raising five children and trying to make a good home for them. In my conversations with the subdivision, I guess that's what you call it, of the zoning committee, they indicated that the most important aspect of this was compatibility. And for the life of me, I cannot see in my wildest dreams how this development is compatible with 19 other houses that are on a minimum one-acre lot that was developed. by purpose for that. Secondly, if we're expecting 50,000 people in the town, I really have a hard time understanding how the development of two acres, and only two acres, is going to help stem the tide of people we have coming in Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, would you please have the person come back and introduce themselves for the record? Yes, Mr. Justice, would you come back and introduce yourself? I apologize. I shouldn't have. We need your name. My name is William Justice. I live on 2850 East Inwood, and we are the second closest house to the development. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, I'm Cindy Murray, and I live at 1667 Stardust. And I just want to thank you for taking the time to look into this more deeply. I agree with everything my neighbors said. And this has been a great learning experience for me, just being in this process and learning how important you guys are in our lives and everything. Want to work together so mayor Jordan I would like to ask some questions Just to get some data so that I can work together with you guys and coming up with ideas because last time y'all somebody mentioned I did y'all had a challenge Meeting the demand that all these people come in to Fayetteville so my question is why is it so important to meet those needs and what are the cost of not meeting those needs and And I remember somebody mentioned that, well, if we did one house per acre, that's not possible to meet the demand. So my question is, why do you feel the need that we have to satisfy those needs? So this is just something that just kind of popped up in my head that I've sent actually everybody an email, all the city council members. So I'd just like someone to address that so that I can – learn and and Support and and Contribute to the concerns that you have for the city Thank you. Thank you I can address it in the sense of our comprehensive plan city plan 2030 I It does designate this area as yellow, which means residential neighborhood. Residential neighborhood in City Plan 2030 does not, however, equal to RSF4. In fact, the plan is very specific in the sense that it's encouraging finding appropriate ways of accommodating a variety of lot sizes. a variety of house types, single-family, duplexes, multi-family. And it particularly emphasizes taking advantage of destinations that are within walkable areas. So the question, I think, in front of council is, is this an appropriate land use? Is the RSF 8... in accordance with our comprehensive plan. The staff and the planning commission felt that it was. Okay, okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? I'm Bill Reagan. I live on Huntsville Road. My mother-in-law lives on Inwood Lane, Treaty, Moss Black. I've sat through three of these meetings so far, and to just recap the concerns I've heard from my neighbors, since 1968, the Glenwell addition has had existing protective covenants that prohibit more than one house per lot. There are only 20 houses in the Glenwood housing addition. If approved, this rezoning would represent an 80% increase to that housing addition, 80% increase with one rezoning. That seems excessive. We're concerned about increased traffic in an already highly congested area. We are worried that it's already dangerous to walk around our housing addition because there are no sidewalks. Adding 16 new houses and cars is not going to help that. If approved, will the city help with building new sidewalks in our neighborhood, putting street lights out on cross over so we can see at night? It's very dangerous. There's no lights out there. We're worried that if you approve this rezoning, it will spread across the neighborhood. To build these new houses, they will have to cut down all the old trees, fill in the pond. The 2040 city plan says we will assemble an adoring green network, everything from rezoning sensitive environmental areas like floodplains to limiting development to adopting a tree. This rezoning seems to go against all of that. The 2030 city plan contains a soil suitability study that indicates that Whippewill is rated very limited for development. I quote, Soil characteristics are an important determinant of land use. Soils with high water tables and poor percolative abilities greatly increase the cost of community sewer systems. These conditions can also lead to increased stormwater infiltration and stress the capacity of wastewater facilities. At the eastern edge of the city limits, a large mass of the most restrictive soils is located between Mission Boulevard and Crossover Road. Let me just repeat that. At the eastern edge of the city limits, a large mass of the most restrictive soils is located between Mission Boulevard and Crossover Road. Urban development is best suited in areas to the west and northeast where soil limitations are least restrictive. These are also areas where the current development and future market activities are most active. Your own study indicates that you should have less urban development in this area, not more. It's not just nimbyism. I think that the residents and your own study has shown that they have given you plenty of valid reasons why this rezoning should not be approved. The 2030 city plan has a quote at the very beginning that says, growth is inevitable and desirable, but destruction of community character is not. If you approve this rezoning, I think we'll have started a process that will fundamentally destroy the character of that housing addition. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I know that Council Member Pateras has asked this be held for two weeks, and she wants to be able to come back and vote on this one way or the other. We've always usually honored that, council members, but I will leave that up to you all's wisdom. So what do you do? or isn't this just the second reading this we're about to go into the third reading so i mean we yeah i would like to see it we'll just hold it right here hold it on the second reading okay and then we'll take this up again in two weeks i do do want to state that and your question that i know that on our board we have uh we will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority. So that's some of the things of our guidelines that we do do in the city. So appropriate infill. So I think that's the question for the council here is, do we think this is appropriate infill and or not? So. Mayor, I do want to add, since we have these conversations every time and different people may be watching, the city will be going to its 2040 plan update. This is when citizens need to be involved. I gave this speech last time so everybody here doesn't need to hear it again. But for those watching at home, it's this type of dialogue to make sure that when we decide where we want transit corridors to be and where we want density to take place and where we want traditional neighborhoods to be protected and when we want mixed housing types And all of those things that we talk about in dealing with a very real fact of increased population, we need everyone involved. Everyone involved. And that's where we can try to find the consensus that our community has. So please continue to watch for the development services information on the 2040 update. And don't only be engaged when you have a project taking place in your neighborhood. Because as you can see, these policies get established and they are the criteria by which decisions are made. And so... i remember when the mayor was running for mayor the very first time and these discussions came up in one of the comments where if you don't like the plan then engage in changing the plan it's too late to do it when a development is in front of you it's being done when we're developing the plan and we are developing the plan again this year so you all will have a chance to weigh in on that plan okay we want everybody's voice heard Okay, so this will stay where it is for two weeks, and we will probably see you all again. And thank you for coming, by the way. Okay. Moving right along under old business number four. We certainly know how to clear a house. Okay, let's move along to number four. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6523 for approximately .99 acres located at 504 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Lined Industrial to R-I-U Residential Intermediate Urban and D-G Downtown General. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I believe that's where we left it. It's on the first reading. Sarah. So moved. Mark. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second brief. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Oh, we got everybody? Okay. Scroggins? Yes. Metsch? Yes. Tartt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinton? Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6523 for approximately an acre located at 504 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and DG Downtown General. Order. Yes, Mayor. When you considered this item the last time, Council had a question for the applicant, which is would they consider downtown general? I believe Mr. Mike Baumann is here and can address that. He's the applicant. Okay. So I'm Michael Cross now, but you guys get me instead tonight. But, yes, we would like to take the whole parcel to downtown general, please. As recommended to us by Mr. Garnerstall. Well, thank you. So we need to amend it the parsing do we need to amend that kit yes, look at the ordinance He's going to remove our I you from this and go straight for downtown generals way understand so we're going to remove our I you and Amended to downtown general Sarah I move that we amend the result or the ordinance to downtown general Second that we have a motion to second to amend to downtown general any discussion among the council Or sir any public comment on the amendment I Okay, seeing none, bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Sarah. I would just like to thank the applicant for reconsidering the potential of this lot. I think it's really important with it being immediately adjacent to our hopeful future cultural arts corridor that we have the ability for artists to live and work and sell their wares this close to that cultural arts corridor. So I think this has a lot of potential to be a great thing for that area. I agree. Thank you. Any other comments? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now we have the ordinance in its entirety with the amendment. What discussion do we have among the council? Kyle. Well, I would also like to thank the applicant for coming out and visiting with me at the property and also for... But thanks to the staff for talking through them with the other options that come into play. I appreciate you pointing out that the trail can be used as an access point there. So with that, I would motion that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Well, let me get some – if there's anyone from the public that would like to address the ordinances in its entirety. Okay. Okay, seeing none, then we have a motion to move it on to the third reading, correct, Kyle and Swamp? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. So, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And since this ordinance has been amended, if I can, I'm going to read the entire ordinance. In order to rezone that property, inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6523 for approximately an acre, located at 504 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to downtown general, D.G., Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to DG Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, well we're ready to go any final comments from the council all right Sally ordinance pass summers, please go yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes An ordinary street zone that property is described as zoning petition RZN 19-6525 for approximately 2.37 acres located at 509 East 15th Street from RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to I1 heavy commercial and light industrial. That was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Sarah. Second. Mark. I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So would you please call the roll. yes yes yes yes yes and orders the reason on that property described and regional invitation RZN 19-65 25 for approximately 2.3 7 acres located at 509 East 15th Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to I won heavy commercial and light industrial car yes mayor last time you considered this there was a question about storm drainage retention, water quality issues, and its relationship to the floodplain that is on the east side of this property. Engineering staff did put together a memo which we forwarded to you that was trying to address City of Fayetteville's policies in relationship to federal law, state law, and the general overview of that. Chris Brown, City Engineer, is here if you have questions about that. Okay, is the applicant here? The applicants representative is here. Yes I'm Roger Lisi with Weikert Realtors the Griffin Company Griffin Company commercial I'm the agent for the owner of the property we have Currently on the market and we have the challenge that we're having is that we have two different zoning on one parcel one is RMF 24 and the other one's I-1 the the property to the from Morningside Moving forward moving east is all I won until you get to this one portion that is zoned RMF 24 and then following that you get into I won all the way to the to the dairy and then you have an agriculture and then you get back into some I wanted to pass that and It's consistent on the south side of 15th Street, and it's what we're trying to do is trying to put it into use, put it on the market, and find a way to get really I think the ultimate buyer there is going to be someone that's going to be building a warehouse office kind of situation so that you can have easy access to Fayetteville to the north end and using Township, I mean Huntsville Road going to college or to going up 265 and can cross over I think it's a pretty pretty easy pretty pretty easy fix Alright, thank you. What public comment do we have? I Okay, seeing I'll bring it back to the council Sarah maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Ordinance reads on that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 19-65 25 for approximately 2.3 seven acres located at 509 East 15th Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to I1 heavy commercial and light industrial do we have any final comments from the council? No, there's a few concerns That's been addressed Things have been said about staying. Okay. Teresa. I just want to confirm, Garner, that with this I-1, that they can actually build a gas station there? There are underground tanks that could be put in on that lot? It is an allowed use. They would have to meet all the requirements. Federal, state, it's heavily regulated now. It's not like it used to be. Okay. All right. Thank you. All right. Anything else? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Roger. Yes. Pass. Yes. Sir. No. No. Yes. Can you? No. Oh, that fails and requires 540 votes to be able to pass. All right. Thank you all. Under new business, number one, in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 19-6542 for approximately $1,000. Point 28 acres located at 808 West Davis Street from RSF 4, residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family 8 units per acre. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Could I ask a question? I may have missed. You said that there was four votes in favor of that, right? There was three to three. Okay. That's the way I counted it. I wanted to make sure. It takes five. It takes five. It takes five for any votes to pass an ordinance or resolution. I thought there was four, but there's three. And if there had been four, would the mayor vote? I could have voted. The mayor would have had an opportunity to vote if he chose to. Yes. That's what I thought. I wanted to be sure I was right on that. Okay, Gardner, what do you have on this? Yes, Mayor. Hopefully I have an easy one. This request is located north of Sycamore, west of Leverett Avenue. It is a one-lot rezoning request. It's presently zoned RSF-4, and the request is to RSF-8. The lot immediately to the north is zoned RSF-8. uh... across the street uh... we have uh... community services uh... rmf twenty four rmf forty uh... and This area is designated the entire area, not just this lot, but the entire area and neighborhood is designated city neighborhood area, which encourages a variety of residential building types and increased densities where it's appropriate and encourages, of course, appropriate infill. There were no issues at Planning Commission. I understand there was a question asked about storm drainage to the west of this site. But planning commission staff recommend approval I believe the applicant mr. Mr. William fugit is here Hey there, I'm Bill if you get I own the property and the property Directly to the north We're really just trying to do what we did in At that property the north which is split the backyard off and put another single-family residence right there And really was zoning it like you just pointed out It provides a transition area from RSF for then a in the across the street to RMF. So That's it happy to answer any questions Peter Thomas in Ward 3 I It's just a specific issue. Finding number two by the staff, as I understand it, is the issue is a determination of whether the proposed zoning is justified and or needed at the time the rezoning is proposed. Finding. Staff finds that the rezoning request can be justified based on the future land use plan designation of, quote, city neighborhood area, unquote. and the city planned 2030 goals and objectives as adopted by the city council. The rezoning request could lead to the construction of an additional detached single-family dwelling that is smaller than the existing detached single-family dwellings, thus contributing to the variety of residential building types in this area. Then they have a second paragraph that says, staff does not find that the rezoning request is necessary or needed. As the property currently conforms to the existing underlying zoning and development requirements of the Unified Development Code, the property owner may still make reasonable use of the subject property within the RSF4 zoning district by retaining the existing conforming home or constructing another dwelling on the property through the accessory dwelling unit process. I just am trying to understand as a matter of logic, um, If a rezoning request is not necessary or needed and the owner can do what everyone else in the neighborhood expects them to do, why would you rezone it? Gardner, do you have an answer to that? Well, I think the staff finding that you could possibly build something under the existing zoning is beside the subject. It's not relevant. The relevant question here, does it meet our land use policies? And I think it clearly does. Eight years ago, City Council indeed did rezone the lot to the north. They used the additional space and built an appropriate infill house. If they follow the same pattern, and the applicant, I talked to him today, If they ask for a lot split, they would be asked to combine their access point on Leverett because it's a collector street. It would be entirely compatible with the surrounding land uses. In fact, it's lower density, if that's your concern, than the uses to the east, which are both zoned and used for far more intensive uses. We do have a guide and we do try to follow it. This area, this entire area is very much mixed housing types. It has a designation of city neighborhood. It has four plexus. It has duplexes. It has neat, small, single family homes. And they all coexist together. This is a busy street. And they will, by our rules, have to not create traffic problems by sharing an access point. I feel it is not only appropriate, but is very much in the center of Fayetteville's land use policies. Okay. Here you have a minute and 40 seconds. I just don't understand why a government wouldn't follow its own rules anymore. Lots of things can be done in lots of places, but the experts made a finding that this rezoning is not necessary or needed, and the owner can do what he wants to do without the rezoning. And I just think it's this continuing plucking away at the chicken, this continuing assault just for the sake of taking away from people what they want. Thank you. Is there any other comments from the public? At some point I'll go. Okay. Mark. I guess the way I look at this is whenever you're looking at rezoning, you're not looking at a specific use, just like I said earlier. What we're looking at is the possibilities that by right someone can have if something is zoned in a specific manner. There was a request for us to look at this, to rezone it, that is going to change the possibilities of what can be built by right on this property. And so what I'm looking at, I don't know whether other city council members are, I think they are, is currently the complete... section of code under the current zoning offers this by right. Someone has asked us to review it to offer a different set of possibilities by right. And so what we've got to look at is, is it okay to change this zoning and allow these new things or these different things by right in this neighborhood, and is it compatible? And so To me, I don't see where we're nitpicking anything. I think someone's asked us to review a piece of property to look at what is the possibilities by right that's allowed under this specific zoning. And so I'm just looking at specific zoning. They're not exactly the right. They're not exact. If they were exact, that's where we would have a problem. There are different... By right, there are different implications associated with the different zonings. So that's what I'm comparing whenever I'm looking at a zoning request. Like I mentioned earlier, it can be little pink ticky-tacky houses like we hear, or it could be a mansion, whatever. We're not talking about design standards. We're talking about uses. So that's what I think. Okay. I would argue on this one that this is not a case of taking away what people want. This is an applicant who's before us with a specific request and we have an opportunity to, in a way that fits the character of Leverett in an area that's probably in significant transition, this is an opportunity to meet the demand that we see people coming to asking In fact, I will renew my call that I haven't said in a while that when we see one lot like this in a neighborhood that we know is changing that it's time to start looking at the broader area and see if the existing zoning over the whole neighborhood fits. Even if we, and I'm not suggesting this, nobody quote me later, I'm not suggesting that we should rezone this entire neighborhood to RSF8. But I think the entire neighborhood is due long overdue another look. And even if we were to do that, nobody's coming in with bulldozers to knock down houses and build two in their place. That's not the way that this works. We're not taking away anyone's single-family house. We're not taking away anyone's quarter of an acre lot. We're only giving the option for property owners to... adapt and change with the market demands. I will most likely support this unless something else crazy comes up after me. Okay. Teresa. I'm very familiar with that neighborhood. I own a rental house that's probably about two blocks away from that area. It, um, you know, it, there's lots of different mixed housing there. Um, I actually think that this is probably a compatible use for that neighborhood, a because of the increase because of the bus routes and there's all kinds of rmf 24 all over the place so i i actually think that um i will unless something some new dramatic information i will probably support this rezoning request thank you okay anybody else I would just note that despite the comments from the staff on that he already can develop the property as he wants to, there's a vast difference between building an accessory dwelling unit and being able to build your own private unit on your own land so that it's privately owned or privately rented on its own parcel, which obviously an accessory dwelling unit cannot. It doesn't have the restrictions that accessory dwelling units have where no more than two people. So I think it is a reasonable request for a different sort of ability to develop, as was pointed out by Council Member Kenyon and others. I think it is a different request. It's not something that he could do right now. Okay. And so? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6542 for a property of .28 acres located at 808 West Davis Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Powell. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sundridge, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6542 for approximately 0.28 acres located at 808 West Davis Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all number two resolution to approve bid number 19-21 to authorize the contract with KJX contractors incorporated in the amount of one million four hundred and fifty eight thousand dollars for the construction Hots drive to Maple Street Pleasant Woods Drive and saying Avenue waterline improvements projects and to approve the project contingency in the amount of a hundred and forty five thousand eight hundred dollars and Thank you, Mayor and Council. The City Engineering Department did design these waterline projects for us. This is actually three different projects lumped into one. The first one is approximately 2,000 feet of 12-inch water main that goes from Hots to Maple, west of Razorback Road. This main replaces an older main that is currently along Razorback Road and adds an additional water line to provide additional looping to the west side of the stadium. Second project is the installation of approximately 530 feet of 8-inch main to create a loop in the Pleasant Woods apartment off of Lewis, as well as a replacement of all the existing services lines to that apartments. This loop will eliminate a dead-end line that serves these apartments and create a better grid for fire protection. The last segment of this project includes about 600 feet of 8-inch water line along Singh Avenue from Old Farmington Road to Mitchell Drive. This section of Older Main is subject to frequent leaks and breaks that disrupts the water service as well as the roadway in front of Raymond Jinger High. On February 20th, the city received four construction bids for this project, and KJAC's contractors have the lowest bid of $1,468,000. The item is presented to the January 8th Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee with a unanimous decision to afford the City Council consideration for approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Yes, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Been through the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee unanimous vote. Good deal. I think so, too. All right. Any questions or comments? I will open it up for public comment. Any public comment? Okay, bring it back to the council. Mark. Okay. I move that we move forward on the resolution to approve the bid. Okay. Sloan? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Mark? Okay. Okay. Sonnaberg, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Tartt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Keenan? Yes. Okay. Number three, a resolution to express the City Council's intention to share in the cost of constructing a regional lift sewer lift station near Rupert Road. Tim. Thank you, Mayor. A future Rupert Road subdivision will be located along the newly constructed Rupert Road between Weddington Drive and MLK Jr. Boulevard. It has been determined that there's no feasible way for the site to have gravity sewer connections off that site. Because of this, the idea of a regional lift station capable of handling all of the surrounding properties and pumped to the existing west side wastewater treatment facility is now proposed. If the regional lift station is approved, an overall basin study would be performed and the lift station size appropriately for both current anticipated and future flows as well. As well as future flows if an intent to cost shares approved it will give the developer the level of comfort to begin the design Process of the regional lift station this item was presented to the January 8th water sewer and solid waste committee with unanimous decision To move it forward to the council for consideration What questions do we have from the council looks like the whole water and sewer committees here, so I assume We went pretty well. We'd like the cost share. Yes. Do we have any public comment on this I? Okay, we'll bring back the council. Mark. I move we accept the resolution for the regional sewer lift station. Teresa. I second that. We have a motion to second the passed resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $57,850 plus political taxes from Rebuild It Services Group, LLC, for the repair of one clarifier drive at the Melbourne Wastewater Treatment Facility and one GSRU drive for the Westside Treatment Facility kit. Whereas clarifier drives and a GSRU drive... which are used at the city's water resource recovery facility, are systematically pulled for inspection and repairs, and whereas two drives were recently sent to Rebuild It Services Group, LLC, a certified dealer and service provider, to take apart and inspect the units for damage, and it was determined that they were both in need of routine rebuilds, which can be done at a total cost of $57,850 plus applicable sales tax. And whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for the repair of hidden or unknown damages. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14EE, the repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, unquote, does not require formal competitive bidding, and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a quote of $57,850 plus any applicable taxes, unquote. from Rebuild It Services Group LLC for the repair of one clarifier drive at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and one GSRU drive for the Westside Treatment Facility and authorizes a payment of that amount. Okay, Tim. Thank you mayor These are two different pieces of equipment from two different treatment places center clarifier drive at the Nolan plant the clarifiers I'll use a common drive unit What we have done through the years is we get these rebuilt if we can because it's cheaper than new units And we always keep a critical spare on the shelf in the expected of one breaks down again So what this rebuild will do we'll put that spare on the shelf because we've got all the clarifiers running and And it was deemed that it was eligible for it to be rebuilt and wasn't wore out quite as bad where it needed to be replaced. The GSRU, which incidentally stands for Grit and Scum Removal Unit at the Westside plant, it is also a unit that skims the top for the scum and the bottom for the grit at the headworks of the plant. Same on this. It was taken apart and shown that it is viable to be rebuilt at a lower cost than buying a new one, and that's why we brought these to the council for a total of $1,000. the $57,000 in order to do this was presented to the water sewer committee with the admissible approval to the council for consideration. I'd be happy to answer any questions. So you're going to name this boat, Mark, Water Sewer? Yeah, this came through Water Sewer. Mayor, you're not going to believe it, but you know what Rebuild It Services Group does? Rebuild things? I know. It's amazing. Call me Captain Office. Yeah, I do. Okay, so what questions do we have? The city council is getting late, isn't it? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, so now I'll bring it back to the council. Mark? I move that we approve the Rebuild It Services Group Incorporated. We're going to have to suspend the rules. We've got to suspend, yeah, sorry. This is an ordinance. It's a big one. I move that we move to the next reading of the Rebuild It Services Group. We have a motion to go to the second reading. I second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please go on the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $57,850 plus applicable taxes from Rebuild It Services Group, LLC, for the repair of one clarifier drive at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and one GSRU drive for the Westside Treatment Facility. Okay. Okay. Mark. I move that we go to the third and final reading. Teresa. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Adornance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of fifty seven thousand eight hundred fifty dollars plus applicable taxes from rebuild it services group LLC for the repair of one clarifier drive at the Nolan wastewater treatment facility and one GSRU drive for the Westside treatment facility. Final comments from the council. I don't know, but the chief of staff and I are going to meet with legislators in Municipal League tomorrow. We need to have maybe a clarifier position to go with us when we go. Mayor, you're going to need to take several clarifiers down there with you. When we go down there. Enough of that. All right. Any other final comments? I couldn't resist. Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number five An ordinance domain 166.04 required infrastructure improvements development in city limits of the Unified Development Code to change the parkland dedication ratio for multifamily dwelling units and the fee and lieu formulas for single family and multifamily dwelling units related to parkland dedications. Kip. Whereas Parks and Recreation Development Department staff, in compliance with Unified Development Code's requirements, worked with the Washington County Assessor's Office to review numerous raw land sales within Fayetteville city limits over the last two years to determine the average per acre cost of undeveloped land most similar to land a developer would dedicate to the city for parkland requirements. And whereas the average cost per acre of this raw land was determined to be $47,130,000, which is an increase over the previous amount of $40,000, as Fayetteville has been experiencing fairly rapid population growth, increasing demand for housing, and thus rising land costs for such housing. and whereas parks and recreation department staff continued to utilize the national recreation and park association standard for the amount of required parkland needed to serve our citizens and whereas the parks and recreation department staff used the northwest arkansas regional planning commission's analysis of the United States Census to determine the average number of persons per household to arrive at the amount of dedication of parkland or payment in lieu thereof for newly constructed single-family and multi-family residential housing, and whereas the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board spent two meetings, maybe more, analyzing the new valuations and then voted to recommend approval of these new amounts to the City Council. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Favreau, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Favreau, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16604B3LIIF and 166.04.B3LIIG of the Unified Development Code, so that after amendment, the subsection shall read as follows. Subsection F, dedication ratios. Land should be dedicated at a ratio of .023 acres of land for each single-family dwelling unit and .20 acres of land for each multifamily dwelling unit. Subsection G, fee and lieu formulas. A contribution in lieu of land dedication shall be made according to the following formula. $1,089 for each single family unit. $952 for each multifamily unit based upon actual density. The Parks and Recreation Department shall review the contribution formula every two years and make recommendations to the City Council following such review. Okay. Connie? Okay. Evening council. I'll try to give you an overview of some of how we arrived at some of the information that you have in front of you Dr. Crompton's professor in Texas A&M. He's done a lot of study on these Parkland dedication he's come up with three basic reasons that cities do this or how they do that one is to request existing residents to subsidize news about the new development and And that's talking about the impact of new people coming in on the recreation infrastructure. The second is to require new development to pay for the cost of providing the new park development. Or the third is just to decline to do anything, which basically means you're going to drop the quality of life as people come in. An example would be we have a lot of people play tennis in this city, and there's not a lot of courts. So if more people came in and played tennis, it would actually be harder to play tennis if you didn't do anything about that. All right, so the fee is determined by three different variables that change over time. One's the value of the land in the city, One's the amount of parkland required for increased population and then the number of occupants in a dwelling. And we'll go quickly through some of this, give you a little bit more information on it. The first piece is about the value of land. We initially had a data set that we felt after we got more feedback from the development community wasn't robust enough. It did not have all the data. some of the parcels that they identified that were missing from the first set. So we went back to the assessor's office and were able to get a much better understanding of the different types of land types that they use. And they were also able to update the data set to 2017 and 2018 numbers. So we went through that data set. One of the land types that was not used before is agriculture improved. This one, while we didn't use it before, as we were looking at undeveloped land, but you could have a 40-acre parcel with a barn on it, and it was agriculture-improved, and the barn really had no impact on the value of the land, and that land was going to residential development. So we looked through those different parcels, were able to... kind of go through them. We ended up originally with about 100 parcels in the data set, and we ended up with about 54 after we'd gone through analyzing it and seeing what we needed to keep. So the next, well, that's where we went from 40,000 to 47,130, which is about an 18% increase. So the next variable was about the amount of parking required to serve increased population. The city has used the NRPA standard of 10 per 1,000. NRPA is very clear that you should really look at your city to make sure that's accurate. We did go through a study. We found that it's very close to what we are. We're at about 10.3 acres, and that's mainly looking at community parks, neighborhood park land. So we recommended to stay with the 10 acres standard. Then the final one is the number of occupants in the dwelling, and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission really helped us here. The big change was in the multifamily. Single family basically stayed the same, but multifamily went from 1.39 people per dwelling unit to 2.02, which is a 45% increase. And that did change the dedication ratio of 0.023 acres per unit for single family and 0.020 acres per unit for multifamily. So when you look at this and go through the formulas, you end up going for single family. The fee goes to $1,089. It was $920, so that's an 18% increase. But the multifamily has two variables that change, and it goes from $560 to $952, which was a 70% increase. So to kind of recap real quick what the recommendation from staff and PrEP is, it's 47,130 for the new land value. The new occupancy rates are 2.31 for single-family, 2.02 for multifamily. And the dedication radios are 0.023 acres for single, 0.020 acres for multifamily. Continue to use the 10 acres per 1,000. And then the new fee is $1,089 for single-family and $952 for multifamily. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have on that? Sorry, some of those slides went by real fast. Okay. I guess you were talking about how you figured out our current park-to-resident ratio. What parks did we include in that? Did we use undeveloped stuff in future development? We used the neighborhood parks, all the community parks, and then a little bit of land out of the regional parks because the regional parks do serve a neighborhood community park function. But not things like Centennial or... Yeah, we took out, like at Sequoia, we only use about 10 acres for that kind of neighborhood park function, although it's a vast, huge park. And when you talk about single-family versus multi-family, is that based on the zoning or the type of structure? Where does a duplex fall on that? Which side of the divide? This is only based on single-family houses. So when development comes through, if it's a single-family house, they'll be assessed either the fee or the dedication ratio. The developer has an option of doing either one. So the ratio is set how the developer responds. Okay, so a duplex, for example, would pay which fee? A duplex would be considered, I believe, multifamily. There is a threshold of where they, if it's a small development, they actually aren't. So if you're building multiple duplexes, then it might count differently as if you're building a single one? Yeah, I think it has to be 24 units or more before it would start to kick in. Thanks. Okay. Teresa. Can we verify that answer? Connie, are you – the reason I'm asking is because some of the duplex items are actually classified from a development code perspective as residential. So is the threshold to 24 units or higher is multifamily or is a two-unit duplex in the multifamily category? terms of what we charge because I know for usually a duplex is not considered multi-families for most purposes in the code so I'm not a hundred percent sure of how you all apply that so I guess for the council just we'll get you that correct answer because obviously this is a big decision when we raise the rates on people and not something we want you to do in one night anyway So we will have an answer for where that break in collection point is on those items. Thank you. A little more clarity on that would be helpful. I want to make sure we're clear for the public. Yes, yes. So you did a great job of showing sort of your formula that you have up there. Have you used that same general formula before and in the past to calculate your rate? As I understand this form has been in place since the Started in the 80s in the formulas stayed the same. It's just the variables have changed with time and Then second question so when you showed the different kinds of housing types that you sort of excluded or actually it should be land types That you excluded did you do that in the past or is that actually new a new process that you've undertaken? In the past I believe the data sets and I'm kind of new to this the data sets We're really looking at undeveloped raw land so categories that had any improvements were excluded and And I think what happened is over time, as land became shorter and harder to get, developers started to go into buying land that already had development on it and then converting it. And so I think it was just a matter of catching up to the times is how that ended up changing. I might add to that that it's also the – quality and breakout of the data set from the county, which has become much more sophisticated in that 20-year period than when it started. So the ability to dissect some of this was not available in 1980. That would be available today. So there's certainly been changes in what has been included or excluded over that 20-plus-year process. Okay. Okay, I guess I was sort of thinking about, I mean, the slideshow went by pretty quickly and there were a lot of numbers in there, but I was thinking like the, I guess it was the commercial land, right? There were different kinds of categories. And so I was just wondering, I understand about the resolution being a lot better, but in the past had those types of properties generally. Well, you wouldn't have commercial on there because commercial does not do parkland. It's only residential. Okay. Okay. If you could go back to the slide where it's one of the first ones, I think. Go back two more. In the data set they provided, it did have commercial. We did look at those, but we didn't think that any of the commercial were valid. It's not that they couldn't be in the future because you could buy a commercial piece of land and then go to residential use with it, but in this case, we didn't see that that was going to happen on any of the ones that were in this data set. Okay, so like the last time you looked at this, were you able to, did you parse out the same variables that you had the information on and exclude those? Generally speaking. I'll have to go to some historical knowledge because I was not here for the last time that they didn't look at that. I can address that. Before, we met with the county assessor's office, and they basically, we told them we wanted the price of raw land, land that was not developed over five acres of land. over five acres so that's the data set that they gave us this last time we met with four different people four people from their office we all sat down and had a meeting so that we could really discuss what we were looking for so that we could get the best average cost per acre So it's been, you know, it's taken a while to get there. At the very beginning, back in the 80s, we actually went to realtors and asked them what was the average cost per acre of land. So we've came a long way since then. and what we're really looking for if we're trying to have the same value as what the developer would either dedicate or pay in so you're looking for land that could be developed into a neighborhood and what would be the cost to the developer of that not after all the infrastructure is put in A lot costs because that would be extremely high, but what is the developer's cost when he would go in or she would go in and buy the 40 acres before they built the development and then make the determination whether there's going to be dedication to park land or payment in lieu thereof. That's really kind of what we've been looking for, but we've gotten much better, I think, much better figures and analysis. this year than I think we've ever gotten before. And I want to thank you all for your hard work doing that because I think you've arrived really at a pretty fair number. We've used that same national park, you know, what is it, 10 acres for 1,000? You know, if there's anything that's, you know, you kind of wonder about, well, I mean, that came from a national association. We've used it for 30, 40 years, so it probably makes sense to stick with it. But that's the one that we don't, we didn't devise ourselves, we just got from a national group. This has really been an iterative process with the assessor. And when I say that, When you get this first set of raw data and you look at it, you'll see properties that sold for practically nothing, which might have been to a family member at a very low price. You will see properties sold at exorbitant amounts that might be for tax purposes or that don't necessarily meet the comparable analysis on the other side. So you really have to parse out individual transaction by individual transaction to make sure that those aren't skewing at low or high. on either end of that. So that's a part of the analysis. These land types... When you look and say, how is this money to be used if you take money in lieu of, it's either to develop the current parks or to buy land where we want parks to exist. And so we think it's important to evaluate the properties you see on the list today because some of those future park lands might actually have been old farm lands and not necessarily just raw data that was agriculture-based. It may be an undeveloped neighborhood component that's adjacent to an existing one. So there's been a lot of analysis. It has changed. We don't want to be misleading. We've added properties and taken off, but we've done that at the advice of the assessors where they feel like that the properties meet the spirit and intent of what we've looked at historically and had the – they give us the set, the staff goes through it, the city attorney's office looks at it and makes sure we're not – directing it at any particular item. And if you remember the last time we did this, so again, this ordinance requires us to look at this periodically and to update it by ordinance. That's why it's here in front of you today. The last time we looked at this, the price was actually only about $300 per acre or higher. The calculations were the same, and so we chose not to make a change when we looked at this last time. So, and that's probably back when we were in the, some of the different economic times and coming back. And the other item is that the Parks Board also, just their discussion, because, you know, we... the administration long had us look at a lot of things do we want to incrementally implement this do we want to do 50 one year 50 another because of the size of it the parks board recommendation was that the land's not getting cheaper the land is not becoming more available and we need to be collecting it at what it would cost to actually buy it and that's why you have what you have in front of you so they are an advisory board but they're an advisory board with a little more um uh power than some of the other kind of like the planning commission they can make a few different recommendations that we bring forth the mayor concurred with that which is why you have that in front of you today um but i think that as i said we want you to spend time going through this we want this left on the first reading uh today and uh because we also think it's important that the development community be aware of it you know in actuality um We have a lot of impact on our parks from a lot of the multifamily development that we have seen this year, but we aren't permitting 7,000 units like we did about four years ago. We're building, so while it doesn't have the same impact, it potentially could have had the numbers turned out to this. It's kind of like pay. It's a mathematical calculation based on the numbers that you get back from various transactions. Yes. I might also add just one last thing. This parkland dedication ordinance, we were the first one who did it in the state. and it's been very valuable for the last 37 years. We've taken in over 290 acres of parkland into our system, and we have received over $7.8 million of development that came back into our park system. So it's been very, very beneficial to us. So thank you for your consideration. Okay. Yeah, I definitely think that we should look to build more neighborhood parks. But I don't understand why it's an 18% increase for single family and then a 70% increase for multifamily, as we're talking about trying to encourage more infill, more multifamily. You know, I definitely need to go through this a little bit better, but that's something that just kind of shows up when I read through there kind of the first time through. Yeah. Again, I just remember this is the calculation. So it's based on the number of people per unit. So in this case, there's a higher number of people in multifamily units than in the single family in terms of – and that number is coming from Northwest Regional Planning. Okay. We're not creating that number. Is that correct? And all impact fees are supposed to be paying the cost of new development, not doing social policy about what kind of development you want, but just forcing the people that are causing the new strain or new use of your facilities to pay their fair share. I do want to acknowledge that your agenda session conversation, that you had interest in changing how we do this, will require an impact fee study related to a parks impact fee if you choose to do that. We are grandfathered in on an ordinance change and so this is our option. So if you want to change policy-wise how you look at this, how you allocate it, if you want to look at it, we heard per bedroom, we heard square footage, we heard, we heard you talk about a lot of things at agenda session, it's just going to require an impact fee study to get to that point. It also, this ordinance gives you the two options of land or fee, and we have some of you who often want to take the fee and don't want the land, And today we don't really have that choice under the current grandfathered law of land is suitable and offered we must take that. So how we evaluate suitable land. That's another item that if you want to change. Those are policy discussions for you all to direct. And to Kyle's question, who does that? Does the mayor do that or does the council member do that? We have it on your strategic plan to talk about as a collective group. Okay. Do I have any public comment on this? I'm sure we'll be looking at this again in two weeks. I'm sorry. He's coming up, Jack. I know. I got it. Hi, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Pratt Street. I'm also on the Parks Advisory Board. We're all in favor of this. You'll notice it went 9-0. We are also aware of some of the concerns that you guys have and we had them ourselves, which if you'll notice in our agenda when we had that immediately after we also had as soon as practicable, you should probably do an impact fee study. Think this is a good thing to do now, but we should also be planning ahead for the future and probably changing the way The thing is done. So, thank you Mr. Mayor I have a kind of a suggestion for the City Council that when You have a couple members absent and you feel like you're going to vote against something that requires five affirmative votes, it's probably good to have some signal to the applicant so that the applicant could ask to have it tabled so that the full council could hear. Because obviously everybody that's not here is like an automatic no vote because it takes five affirmative votes to pass. So I think that in fairness to applicants... regardless of your position on whether something should pass or not, when you have people missing, you don't have to do that. If you've got full counsel, don't worry about it. But when you have a couple, especially council members, missing, then it's probably better to let the applicant know that he might not or she might not have enough votes to pass their particular project or their ordinance or resolution. The only other thing I'll say is that once that vote was taken, the only thing that could breathe life back into that is that one of the three people that voted no would need to, before the end of next meeting, move to reconsider. The people that voted yes don't have a choice. They can't do it. The people that are absent, no, they didn't vote with the winning side. The winning side were the no-votes. And so it would take one of the no votes to decide that they want to let the full council hear that before it could be reconsidered. And, again, that has to be done before the end of the next meeting. Mark? Can it be done before the end of this meeting? Because I would move to reconsider. I'm the one that asked you how many voted and why. And that's because it's in – Councilmember Gattata is isn't it in there? and it's not in my ward so I felt I did feel responsible and I'm glad you brought it up because I was thinking how can I make amends because I don't know how she feels we don't talk out of here And so I would like for it to be reconsidered, and I would change my vote. Well, you can't change your vote, but you can move to reconsider, and then we'd probably hear it at the next meeting. That also means the applicant would have notice. Okay. So then I would like to move to reconsider. And is there a second to that? I've got my name on there. I'll do it. Go ahead. You're talking about B-5. Well, okay. Okay. I'm not sure that I will change my vote, but I would certainly second the motion so that the rest of the council can participate in the conversation. I probably would have voted in favor of that. I thought we had four. That was my mistake. I think the reason that Kit brings this up to you is that once an item fails, it's prohibited from coming back to you for a 12-month period. For a year, isn't it? So for a year, yes. And so. That's why the indication to you may have the exact same failure when you're here the next time with a full council, but we typically will receive calls from people going, well, I didn't know people were going to be against this and have a short council that would ask it to table. So I think that's why we're having this discussion. So we have had a motion and a second? Yep. Okay. There needs to be either discussion or a vote. Okay. What discussion do we have on it? Okay, any public comments on that? Yes, sir. All right, son, would you please call the roll? This is for reconsideration. This is a motion. This will put it back on the agenda for the next meeting. Scroggins? Yes. Yes. Hart? Yes. Smith? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Healy? Yes. Okay, then it will be back on the agenda as old business at the next meeting. All right, very good. Any announcements? Yes. I'm going to spare a couple of announcements. The city invites residents to the Net Neutrality 5G technology event that's coming up. It's being held on Thursday, March the 21st from 530 to 7 p.m. at the Fayetteville Public Library. Sean Kinney, the managing partner for content at Arden Media and the editor in chief of RCR Wireless News, a digital publication that was founded in 1982. and focuses on all things telecommunications. We'll speak about 5G, the next generation of cellular technology. It's currently available in a limited number of markets, but U.S. mobile carriers have big plans nationwide, and so this is a public discussion and dialogue about that topic being done by your digital inclusion team. So we wanted to make sure that we get that announced for you tonight to attend. The city of Fayetteville is also offering free smart cycling classes for adults. It's on our website. They were in February, March, April, June. So if you have an interest in those, please go to the city's website and check that out. It's on the news page. I might also add that the city of Fayetteville today was named in the top 100 best places to live. Again, from... and that link was sent out by the city's Facebook. I encourage you to get that and share that with your constituents. Some really good information on demographics, economy, education, health, housing, infrastructure, how it compares in a very quantified way for you to be able to talk about that. and then just a reminder for those in here at last time we are driving streets to assess pavement we heard tonight about potholes and neighborhoods part of the bond election and the transportation plan has a commitment to increase overlay and the first part of that is an assessment of our street conditions there's a white van with a company's name driving on it so if people see it in their neighborhood You might help us share that. It's not people casing the neighborhood. They drive slowly, and they're filming all of our streets and sidewalk conditions, and so that information will be provided back to the council to make decisions on future overlay investments. Okay, Kyle. Oops, sorry. I was going to take my name off. Oh, okay. Anything else? All right, thank you all. We're adjourned. Yeah.