I'm going to call the City Council meeting for March 15, 2022 to order. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Jones. Kenyon? Here. Whittaker? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Bunch. Here. Turk? Turk. Mayor Jordan? Here. Here.
 Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right.
 Let's see. I believe the first order of business we have tonight is under the reports. I believe we have the nominating committee report. Sarah, do you have that? No. Uh, no. Who has the nominating committee report? No. Huh.
 Well, somebody has got to report on the nominating committee. I guess we could come back to that one. I have the nominating report. I just need to pull it up. Okay, okay. I'm good. I'm good. Next thing, that's fine, but I'm trying. I can do the consent agenda if you want me to wait a little bit, Sarah. Okay, that's fine. Thank you. Sorry, Mayor. Okay. I'll do the consent agenda, and then we'll come back. Y'all don't let me forget to come back, okay?
 Well, not to ever go anywhere. But anyway, on the consent agenda, number one, approval of the March 1st 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $60,400 to fund the cost of the DOT Tipton Sewer Lift Station Improvements Project.
 Number three, a resolution to award bid number 22-24 and authorize a contract with Tank Pro Incorporated in the amount of $788,066 for the painting and rehabilitation of the Markham elevated water storage tank and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $157,613.20.
 Number four, resolution to award RFP 21-06 and to authorize a contract with Smith Two-Way Radio Incorporated in the amount of $355,788.53 for fire station alerting systems for seven existing and three new construction fire stations to approve project contingency.
 in the amount of $30,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Firefighting Facilities Improvement Bond Project. Number five, a resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Wings Avionics Incorporated for the airport hangar at 421 Ernest Lancaster Drive for rent in the amount of $1,815.96 per month. Number six...
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment for the Transportation Services Division in the amount of $200,000 to increase funding for additional ice and snow removal. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $25,000 fund costs associated with the installation of Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard signage on Interstate 49.
 8. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $12,000 to increase the travel and training budget for each City Council member from $2,000 to $3,500. 9. A resolution to approve a retention package for Central Dispatch Center employees and to approve a budget adjustment. 10. A resolution to approve a land sale agreement would be unlimited and incorporated for the sale of approximately 17.46 acres of land.
 for $278,280 with a conditional option to purchase an additional 12.6 acres within 12 months of closing. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and second to accept the consent agenda as read. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? We have enough? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Now, Sarah, would you care to do the nominating committee report? Yes, I would care to do that. I'm ready. Okay. So this is our nominating report from March, or meeting March 9th and 10th.
 and we concur with the mayor's recommendation of the following candidates for appointment.
 Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees, Stan Rogers, one term ending 4-1-27. Amy Wilburn, one term ending 4-1-27. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Active Transportation Advisory Committee, Kay Kitterman, one representative for Americans with Disabilities, term ending 3-31-24.
 Heim Goodman Strauss, one citizen at large term ending 3-31-24. Airport Board, John Holly, one unexpired aeronautical term ending 12-31-25. Animal Services Advisory Board, that was vacant. We have a business representative position still open there.
 Board of Adjustments, Josh Carlson, one term ending 331.25. Jason Young, one term ending 331.25. Civil Service Commission, Juan Montez, one term ending 331.28. Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, Jacob Davies, one local small business term ending 331.25. Vincent Wade, one homelessness services...
 term ending 3-31-25. Environmental Action Committee, Jacob Sheetsley, one unexpired citizen at large, term ending 12-31-22. Fayetteville Arts Council, Abby Hollis, one unexpired term ending 6-30-22. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, Sarah Downing, one unexpired term ending 12-31-22. Planning Commission,
 Mary Madden, one term ending 3-31-25. Mary Magetrick, one term ending 3-31-25. Andrew Brink, one term ending 3-31-25. Joseph Holcomb, one unexpired term ending 3-31-24. And finally, for Urban Forestry Advisory Board, James Parrish, one unexpired term, land development term ending 12-31-23.
 Okay, I will entertain a motion and a second to accept nominees from the nominating committee. Move to approve the nominating committee report. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to accept all the nominees and nominating report from the nominating committee. Kerridge, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Harris?
 yes scroggins yes bench yes turk yes okay thank you all let's go on to unfinished business number one an ordinance for his own that property is grabbing his own petition rzn21-0
 8-1 located at 3373 North College Avenue for approximately 6.98 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. This was left on second reading with tabled until tonight's meeting so I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. All right we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading. Caravage please call the roll. Hertzberg yes. Harvey yes.
 Jones Kenyon yes Whittaker yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk yes an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-081 located at 3373 North College Avenue for approximately 6.98 acres from C2 Thurlfair commercial to UT urban thoroughfare
 Jonathan, anything new? Thank you, Mayor. I did just want to share a brief couple of slides contextualizing this request along with one that's under new business that's immediately adjacent to it. Just to make sure the council is clear on what we're discussing here under unfinished business versus what we'll be discussing under new business. What you see here on the screen is an aerial image presentation.
 of the property in question being considered right now. This is, includes the western edge of the Lewis Auto Complex. You can see Millsap and College to the northeast for context. So this is B1 Lewis Ford that you are looking at tonight. It straddles Plainview Avenue. It's immediately south of, I believe it's fire station number four. And what will be discussed under new business is under C5 is the city center north rezoning request.
 So again, just briefly wanted to make sure everyone was clear on what was being discussed now versus later on the agenda. And as a brief reminder, since it's been a little bit, staff does support this request to rezone the property from C2 to UT. And the Planning Commission agreed forwarding it to Council unanimously. And I have Robert Rhodes here as the applicant for the item. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor Weill. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? You have 10 minutes, Robert.
 Good evening, my name is Robert Rhodes with the law firm of Hall-Lestal. I might have a mis-recollection of this. I could have sworn four weeks ago this came up for the third reading.
 And you left it on the third or tabled it indefinitely. You know something, Robert, you may be right, because I read this today. I was a little confused, but it looked like it was left on the second reading and tabled into tonight's meeting. Am I correct on that? I mean, I had to do a little deciphering on it.
 But regardless, whether it was left on the third or the second, we've now advanced it to the third. Same thing. Okay. I mean, you're going to be hearing that. Okay. Well, that's kind of what I thought. Once you're there, you're always there. Anyway. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah. Okay. This rezoning request is part and parcel of the project that is encapsulated in item C-5, as Jonathan was just telling you, which is later on tonight. Okay.
 This is why I asked this one to be tabled four weeks ago when it was on the third reading, in order to make it easier for you all to consider the project in toto.
 For your reference, page 13 out of 18 in your packet, which I previously sent to you all, you'll find a complete site plan of the entire project depicting both ReZone Request along with the current Lewis Brother buildings, which will be converted to a rejuvenated retail space.
 So if you recall what Jonathan put up there, he showed you the two rezonings and then showed you the old buildings that are actually on College. I'm asking you to vote this rezoning either up or down, hopefully up tonight. And when you get to C5, that you will also take it to a third reading and vote it up as well.
 When we get to C-5, I'll have more to say on that rezoning specifically. But in regard to this one, I've spoken on it in prior meetings, so I'll be very brief and save most of my comments for the C-5. So in regard to this item, I'd highlight that it meets all six goals of the 2040 plan. For that matter, so does C-5 as well.
 It certainly has an incredible infill score. It discourages urban sprawl. It's a mix of uses. It's next to and encourages livable transportation networks. It has green trails, dog trails within, and it's next to existing trails. It also contains attainable housing. I would conclude on this item by saying that the city staff
 And the unanimous plan commission found this request going from a C2 zoning to a U2 zoning is generally consistent with surrounding land use and highly beneficial and quite in line with the future land use plans. So again, I would ask you to approve this one and I stand ready to answer any and all questions. Okay. All right.
 This is now in the third reading. This is an ordinance. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Can the people from the ward let us know if there was any major opposition? I think there was one letter of opposition from somebody who'd lived on the property. Is that correct, Jonathan?
 That's correct. That was filed, technically it was filed in association with the rezoning that's under new business, but yes, it was opposed to rezoning generally in the area. I haven't received, except for that one comment, I haven't received anything. Have you, Sloan? I don't believe so. Okay, thanks. I just wanted to double check with the wards and members. Thank you. Is that this in Ward 3, right?
 That's correct, Mayor. Okay, so y'all haven't heard anything? Neither one of you. Okay. I haven't either. Okay. One other, any other discussion?
 because i'm going to get some public comment if there's not mayor jordan if i could say something before you go on to public comment at the last city council meeting on march the 1st the minutes were approved from that meeting that's february 15th meeting and it was read on the second reading but left there and tabled until two meetings away yeah that's what i have on here that's what we have as well okay thank you
 Alright, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And those present in the chamber will speak after that. Lisa, who do we have on Zoom? Mayor, nobody has their hands raised. Nobody? No one. Okay. Anybody in the chamber want to speak on this? Okay, bring it back to the council.
 Okay, this is on the third reading what comment comments from the council have yeah, I'm looking through my email I don't believe I received anything on this. Um this location if we can't zone UT here and then we don't need UT Yeah, this is definitely urban thoroughfare So this makes sense to me anybody else? Okay care which police call the roll Hertzberg yes Harvey
 Yes. Jones. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Okay, let's go to number two.
 An ordinary zone that property described was on petition RZN 21-087 located on North Futrell Drive between Weddington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 9.40 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre CS community services. Now this one was, we did get it to the third, the third reading. We did table it until tonight,
 So we're on the third reading, right, Kit? We don't have to do anything but take off on the third reading, correct? I think that's correct. It is.
 Alright, then let's start with staff. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. I do have a few things on this one just to update the council and public on. The first of which is just the status of the three other rezonings that were associated or submitted at the same time as this one. As a reminder, you can see those four parcels outlined on the map here all along Futual Drive between Weddington to the north and MLK to the south.
 The three northern ones, the top of those three and the southern of those three have all been, were denied by the Planning Commission, appealed and subsequently withdrawn. The middle one, which the Council will see on new business, they've asked that it be withdrawn, but that was after the agenda was released, so you'll be seeing that shortly. And last but not least, just to orange you again, the southernmost one is the one being considered now, and that was forwarded by the Planning Commission.
 Otherwise, just in case the council did not have an opportunity to see their emails following this weekend, there were some additional pieces of public comment received in opposition to the request. There was an interest in seeing this property preserved.
 And if not preserved, that it would probably more appropriately be developed in the existing RSF4 residential single family four zoning district rather than CS community services. And there was also some comments about the inappropriateness of taller buildings and more intensity being developed next to an area, the property to the north, which is intended for conservation into the future.
 lastly it's my understanding the applicant may be bringing forward a bill of assurance tonight but I'll defer to her to speak to that I'm happy to take questions and and Suzanne Clark is here to speak with as a representative for the item thank you is this Ward 1 this is just yes sir all right okay the app can like speak for the council you have 10 minutes is it
 Thank you Mr. Mayor and Council. I'm Suzanne Clark with Clark Law Firm. I'm here representing the Barnes Family Trust in their rezoning request to rezone this property to CS. And I did bring a bill of assurance that my client is offering that I'll put there.
 We went through this in some good detail a couple of weeks ago, but just as a reminder, this property was recommended by staff and unanimously recommended by the Planning Commission to approve the rezoning to CS.
 And I was just a little concerned because there was one comment that my client thought that just because we were asking for this that we should get it. And I assure you that is not the case. My client fully respects that this body has got the authority to make this decision to accept it or deny it. And through this process with the original request for UT, my client heard that there
 the comments from the staff and the planning commission and did come back with the application for CS.
 And the request here is because it fits all of the guidelines that the city has set out for the goals that the city of Fayetteville has for development. That's what the staff reviewed, that's what they've documented, and that's what we brought forward. Now, the opposition to this has clearly been that the folks who don't want to see it because they don't want to see development period. That's not an acceptable option, obviously, for my client.
 And CS is the right fit, we believe. But it was clear from your comments the last time that you were not in favor of CS as it exists. And most of the comments were with regard to the view that exists and the idea of five story buildings being in place
 in that particular parcel of property. So my client has authorized me to bring forward today a bill of assurance, which we've given to Mr. Williams and the clerk to limit any construction on this parcel of property to three stories.
 So that will bar any of the five-story options that were presented as concerns last time and we are hoping that that will give some comfort level to the idea that there will not be a development of five-story buildings on this property.
 So given the fact that CS clearly does fit with the city's goals, that the city staff and the planning commission unanimously recommended CS as it exists, and now my client has reduced their options under CS to limit it to three stories, I am asking you to please consider granting the rezoning request for my client and allowing it to be rezoned CS subject to the bill of assurance.
 and I'm happy to answer any questions that y'all may have. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? I've got a question for Kit. We haven't seen the bill of assurances.
 Does it basically say it's limited to three stories or is there more in there? Yes, I received this today and it does say it's on our proper form and it is very short. The building height on the rezoned property shall be limited to three stories.
 so that's what the bill of assurance says and prior to taking any action on this ordinance i would ask that the ordinance be amended to reflect the bill of assurance both in the title and in section one they should end with subject to a bill of assurance uh i make that motion second i'm into the ordinance to the bill of assurance yes subject to the bill of assurance who seconded it i'm sorry
 Do we have a second? Mark Hinden did. Yeah. I made the motion, I thought. And I seconded. All right. Thank you, Mark. All right, we have a motion and a second to amend to add the bill of assurance to the ordinance. Yes. Both the title and section one will end with subject to the bill of assurance. OK. All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 I should note for the record, Councilmember Jones is actually in Washington, D.C. at the League of Cities, I think. National League of Cities. National League of Cities, yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And based on information I received, Councilmember Jones is supposed to join the
 this evening via Zoom, but I have not received any additional information regarding that. Okay. Well, we hope he can make it.
 all right now what questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff on the amended ordinance uh let's start with that yeah it's not really a question uh i'd say i appreciate the applicant bringing the bill of assurance um that's probably the thing that will make the difference for me i was on borderline on that um i
 I want to be able to see what's up there. It's a beautiful escape. I'm glad that we're making that change. We did get a lot of emails. And I think a lot of people...
 I think that they want to leave it RSF4 because it's worth more than RSF4. So they think if we leave it there that nothing would ever get built. And that's really not the case. This is going to get built at some point. RS4 was not it. CS without the bill of assurance I don't think was it. I think we've reached the point.
 I know some people are going to be upset. If you don't want anything to happen there, then you're going to have to buy it. It is. I don't want to use intimate domain to take people's private property. That is, you know, that's not going to be a good thing.
 Luckily, I've never had a vote on intimate domain. I hope I don't ever. That's literally the only way that we could stop it. And frankly, I hope I never ever have to do that. So I think this was a happy meeting. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Okay. What are the comments or questions should we have for the staff of the applicant before I take public comment? Anything? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and then those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Lisa. Mayor Lisa Orton. Okay, go ahead. Okay, I found the unmute thing. I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hustle Road in Fayetteville in Ward 4.
 And I think that there are a lot of reasons why it should remain RSF4. I mean, sure, it would be great to not develop it at all, but it is RSF4. And I understand, you know, the property owner
 and I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point.
 And they mentioned, of course, a city is not required to rezone a property just because a property owner or developer requests it. And, you know, everyone understands that.
 The lower density of RSF4 allows for preserving more tree cover. And you know, of course, the benefits of large tree cover helping purify our air and water. The lower density of RSF4 causes fewer drainage and flooding problems for surrounding and lower elevations. And flooding and drainage have been a real problem in Fayetteville.
 from our excessive higher density development and a lack of adequate ordinances protecting existing residents
 And you know all about that too. And adding more and more impervious surfaces has contributed to Fayetteville store management problems. And upzoning these parcels to CS will only add to these problems because it's higher density and more impervious surfaces. And it's also on a hillside, hilltop land.
 And then also these parcels have clay soil, and that also contributes to drainage and flooding problems. And as Sonia has noticed, there are some natural springs on Markham Hill in general that on this parcel, and blocking or disturbing springs adds to drainage and flooding problems as well and messes with nature's way of handling water.
 And another important thing I think is, is RSF4 is a better transition from the nature preserve just north of it to higher density, rather than a high density zoning right next to a nature preserve.
 RSF4 is a more gradual transition into higher density, and that's just more appropriate. Even with the bill of assurance, the RSF4 is just a more appropriate transition between a nature wildlife preserve and higher density urban life.
 And of course, Markham Hill in general is a landform worth protecting in Fayetteville. And as Sonia also mentioned two weeks ago, that the traffic is already increasing.
 And this lower density, RSF4, would cause fewer additional problems than a higher density CS or any other higher density. And also, what I thought was real important is, you know, the fact that we're in a time of crisis
 that people and families with lower and middle incomes enjoy single-family homes with yards and trees just as much as people and families with higher incomes.
 And it's just a wonderful thing living next to nature. And I was thinking Habitat for Humanity, with the help of financial supporters such as, you know, Walton Family Foundation and so on. I mean, they could build homes in this RSF4-zoned area for people with lower and middle incomes, you know, that want a single-family home, because a lot of people really do. So anyway, thank you so much for listening.
 Okay, who else? That one there. Okay, who in the chamber would like to address this on this result? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. We're on the last reading now, so what final comments are, yeah, what can discussion? Hey, I have a few comments. Sure. Sure.
 I appreciate the applicant bringing forward the bill of insurance to limit the building height to three stories I really do. However, I have some some major concerns because the hillside hilltop areas the clay soils Clearly there we saw at least one spring but there are probably many more that were bubbling right out of the side of that hill when we took our tour and
 And one of the reasons why I think, and I was not on the council at the time, but I think one of the reasons why the council approved specialized real estate's development of Markham Hill was that they were actually going to donate.
 some acreage and preserve that. Well, this piece of property, the Barnes piece of property, borders that line, borders that natural area that's slated to be, have a conservation easement on it with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust.
 So, I really believe that CS, even with the bill of assurance, is too dense. There are traffic issues already, like we just heard two weeks ago. And we need some kind of transition. I hear this body, and I hear planning commission all the time talk about transition and what's the right transition.
 Well, if you put CS in there, that's actually higher density than what you have just to the south of it. So, I would argue that the RSF4, or maybe an RSF8 or 12 or whatever, would be a more appropriate transition from a nature preserve, one that this council voted on four years ago, and also keeping in mind with the environmental conditions
 with the clay soils, with the slope, with these natural springs. So I will not be supporting this because of all of those factors. Thanks. Okay. One of the final questions. I'll jump in. Sure. I'll jump in. You know, I really just want to thank again the applicant for making the effort on that bill of assurance.
 But I'm not going to be able to support it despite that because of all the things that we've just heard from Miss Orton, who actually is she's really representing quite a few people on the Markham Hill residential area. And she does a really good job of that.
 kind of collecting and voicing the opinions of quite a few people so um and then we did receive quite a bit of email um and also i just want to agree with uh councilmember turk's comments where uh i agree with everything that she said there about the transition and the traffic and so forth so um i i won't be supporting it but i do appreciate the the
 the consideration effort and to bring in the bill of assurance and it's there now I think I believe we've amended it to add it if it does pass then at least I appreciate that we won't see a five-story building so I do appreciate that that's all I've got that's your award correct Sonia that's correct yes that's correct okay um Mr. Mayor I have a just a few just some real brief comments here uh-huh
 One of the things that a lot of the comments, you know, we keep hearing about all of these things that could happen with this property. The Walton Foundation could come forward and help buy it. And then we could, you know, it could be sold at a good price to Habitat for Humanity to build homes on. And we hear all these things, but it gets back to the issue that
 that if we have to look at this as a council, we have to look at this as a land issue and, and only what the people are asking us for and not, and whether we want to do it or not. We can't look at what might happen if somebody came out of, you know, just popped out of a hat and with a barrel full of money to buy it because we don't, the people don't have that. So we have to really focus on, on what we, you know, the issue at hand and not what,
 you know and i do agree i think i think sloan hit the nail on the head that there are people that think if this stays rsf4 it will be just too expensive to develop and it won't ever be developed
 And I just, I don't like to lose trees or I'd love to have all this stay together. It'd be great in a perfect world. But I think that the applicant has made a good faith effort to try to fit with what, you know, to come up with some scenario that the council might support. And I'll be in favor of this. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 What other final comments do we have in the council? I got a question for Jonathan. The preserve that Specialized Real Estate Group did, is it contiguous with this? Yes, it's immediately to the north. Okay. Thank you. Anything else in the council before we vote? Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? No. Harvey? No. Jones? Kenyon? No. Whitaker? No. Brown?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Okay, thank you all. Alright, let's go on to new business. A resolution to approve amendment number three to the professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated any amount of $250,400 for additional engineering services related to the Midtown Corridor project.
 to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2019 transportation bond project kit oh sorry it is not kit it is Matt mayor this is Chris I've got this item okay
 This is a contract amendment with Olson primarily for construction phase engineering services needed for the portion of the bit down corridor around the police and
 So a section of Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard and a section of Dean and also the roundabout connecting those two streets. So the bulk of that is for inspection services, testing, submittal reviews, all the things that we need from the engineering firm during the construction of that building.
 segment of the project. There also are some other smaller elements of work, including in this amendment, for some additional utility coordination, utility design, some survey work that needs to be added to the project.
 and some right-of-way and acquisition documents on other phases of the project. This was presented to the Transportation Committee, and it was a late addition because we had just gotten the amendment from the consultant. And so, the committee,
 was okay with it moving forward to the council and was recommending that it move forward but that it'd be on new business so if anybody wanted to discuss it we would have that opportunity so with that i can answer any questions okay what questions do we have chris on this from the council all right let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Lisa? May or no one has their hand raised. Is there anyone in the chamber like to address us on this? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What discussion or action would the council like to take?
 If there's no questions or comments, I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes.
 All right. Thank you all. Let's go to number two. A resolution to approve the 2022 marriage staff pay and benefit study report prepared by Hanson Group and to adopt the 2022 marriage staff pay plan structure. Miss it.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. Last week we presented with Blair Johanson, who's on the call as well, the biennial merit staff pay plan and structure. And staff is recommending that City Council approve the 2022 pay plan structure. Sorry. Sorry.
 as well as a budgeted 5% merit pool for the 2022 merit staff pay adjustments and approval of a pay compression study in the summer of 2022. And I have Blair on as well as myself to answer questions about the study. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? We had a presentation, what, about a week ago? I've lost track of my days. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Lisa? No one, Mayor. Okay. Anyone in the chamber would like to address us on this? Alright. I will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution.
 What action would the council like to take? What discussion would the council like to have? Move to approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mayor, I have just one. I just wanna say that I appreciated the seminar that we had last week about this. That cleared a lot of, it helped me understand a lot better about the process.
 And I want to thank all of our employees for all the good service that they've done. I think one thing that demonstrates that so much is the recent snowstorms that we've had, or sleet storms, and how quickly they've been able to clear off the roads and get us back to working quickly. So I think this is a well-deserved raise, and I applaud all of our great employees. Any other final comments?
 All right, Kerridge, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes.
 okay thank you all very much number three a resolution to prove a budget adjustment in the amount of 780 000 precipitates citywide 2022 employee compensation adjustment paul good
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Now that we've approved the pay plan, let's talk about paying for it. If we approve this particular budget adjustment, that'll give us the necessary funds in the various funds throughout the city to pay for it. We have enough in the general fund to pay for it. These are the other funds. I'm comfortable that revenues will cover the pay plan, as I indicated to you last week. And with that, I'll take any questions. Okay. What questions does Council have for Paul on this?
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody's got one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Lisa? No one, Mayor. All right, do we have anyone in the chamber who would like to speak to us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council, this is a resolution. So what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? If there's no questions or comments, I move we approve the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? I want to thank staff's work on putting all this together. Paul, Missy, everybody. Kevin, I see you in here and all the stuff that you did too.
 to get this all pulled together. So having said that, I know how that, trust me, I know exactly how that is. So with nothing else, care which please call me. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Thank you all very much. I really appreciate that.
 Okay, number four. I'm just going to read it, and I understand we're going to be tabling this indefinitely. Jonathan, let me just, let me read it. Okay.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-088 located on North Future Drive between Wellington Drive and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 6.60 acres from RSF for residential single family for units breakers CS community services. And I understand that the applicant wishes to table this indefinitely, John.
 That's correct, Mayor. We've received a written request to withdraw the application. Okay, and this would have probably already have been removed, but it already got on the agenda, so we have to remove it here. So we need a motion that's second to table indefinitely. I've moved to table this indefinitely. Thank you, Mark. Second. Thank you, Sarah. So we have a motion that's second to table indefinitely. Chair, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. All right, thank you all.
 Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 22-002 located west of North Plainview Avenue and East Longview Street for approximately 5.85 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, and RI 12 residential intermediate, 12 units per acre to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Jonathan, I'm sorry, Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A,
 and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre to ut urban thoroughfare section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in North Fayetteville in Ward 3. It's south and west of the intersection of Plainview and Longview, just one block west of College Avenue. It is associated, as I noted earlier, with a request from the same former property owner, Lewis Otto.
 Similar to the last request, it also straddles a piece of right-of-way. This one, however, is largely unimproved. It's Kinray Street. If you visited the site, you saw it's a little more than a gravel road running east to west.
 Similarly, the property in question is largely undeveloped too. The southern portion of it, south of Kinray, does include a single family home and some outbuildings whereas the northern side of Kinray, which represents the bulk of the property, is almost entirely undeveloped except for one outbuilding.
 The request, as Mayor noted, is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre, and RI12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre, to UT, urban thoroughfare.
 From a compatibility standpoint, staff found this to be an interesting request where it represents what was formerly a little bit of a pocket neighborhood in between two areas of increasingly intense development. You have the Washington Regional Medical Center and its associated offices and services coming from the west, and of course College Avenue to the east and all its associated commercial and non-residential services.
 Between those two and the fact that only two houses in this area not owned by this property owner remain in private hands, it's clearly in an area that would be appropriate redeveloped. And staff finds the request to be compatible with the existing land uses in the larger area altogether.
 From a long range planning perspective, staff finds this request to be compatible with our future land use plan, which has a split designation for this property. It's both city neighborhood area and urban center area. Both of those are some of our more intense designations on the future land use map, which support a wide mixture of land uses, both residential and non-residential. We feel that UT complements that by allowing both non-residential and residential land uses
 Similarly, we feel the request complements the 71B corridor plan. One of the biggest pieces of that plan and perhaps the crux of it is the need to incorporate and introduce more residential uses to the College Avenue corridor given its long history of purely non-residential use and the resulting traffic congestion that we've seen that the results are having to drive to everything without any options for walking or biking there.
 Perhaps unsurprisingly then, staff finds the request to be consistent with our comprehensive plan, City Plan 2040 and its goals. This location represents what we find to be an ideal place for appropriate infill. This is reflected in the many infill attributes you can see here, including not one, but two nearby grocery stores, substantial nearby infrastructure, transit services, and of course, park and trail.
 I know with that there are a couple other issues that I wanted to point out to the council as a part of this request one is that this property of course
 because of its where it sits between two large areas of development but not a lot of street network is intended in our master street plan to be incorporated in that larger street network specifically a extension southward of plain view to fiesta square and longview east west between the medical uses to the west and college avenue to the east
 You can kind of see that demonstrated here with the properties in question in yellow. The Plainview extension specifically into Fiesta Square is intended to be out for bid for construction later this year, so that is a very real project and a connection we anticipate seeing that can really create a good street connectivity fabric in this part of the city.
 The other item worth noting, which was brought up with the previous request, is the piece of public comment we did receive. One of the two private property owners who live in this area is opposed to the request. They've been here for several decades and are adverse to seeing the changes that may come with rezoning this land. They have concerns about the use of the area for local wildlife and are interested in seeing it preserved for some manner of open space.
 With all that said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, forwarding it unanimously with a recommendation of approval. The conversation largely centered around the property's proximity to college and the large number, again, of positive infill attributes like the access to grocery stores and amenities and infrastructure requirements.
 and with that i'm i'm happy to take any questions and i know the applicant did mention an exhibit earlier and i do have that available if the council is interested in seeing that thanks okay would the applicant like to speak for the council yes i'm sorry 10 minutes yeah robert rhodes hello again robert rhodes with the law firm of paul estill um again this is part of the rezoning request project that dovetails with the one that you all just approved
 First, I would remind you that staff recommends approval and the Planning Commission also by a 9 to nothing vote. The project is only 800 feet from North College. And actually, if you take the entire project, which includes, as I said before, the existing Lewis Brothers properties, which are going to be rejuvenated for the retail, then it's literally right on college.
 So with its rezoning request of UT, that falls squarely within the city's future plans, especially the city's planned extension of Plainview into Fiesta Square, which is part of the 2019 bond project. That bodes well for connectivity, which is always desirable.
 The site is an ideal location to increase the entitlement beyond strictly residential uses. Again, that's a quote from the staff's report. Staff further indicates that the nature of UT zoning district with its height and architectural design standards make the allowed uses compatible with the surrounding areas. Further, staff indicates given the future plan street connections,
 proximity to regional infrastructure connections and transit, staff finds the request is compatible here.
 This rezoning request and overall development plan also rates a very high infill score due to incredibly close proximity to fire, sewer, water, grocery stores, city parks or city park, paved trail, Ozark and Razorback bus stops, future land use, and it's close to the College Avenue corridor. As I said before, if you put the whole project together, it is on the corridor.
 Again, quoting city plan 2040, this is the type of density with mixed use development that is highly encouraged. You'll note from the preliminary site plan, which again I mentioned before I supplied you all, and again I understand that's not binding, but it's a completely sincere and realistic plan that calls for office, residential, hotel, restaurant, patios, walking trails, dog parks, et cetera.
 To further quote the staff, this rezoning will bring this area into alignment with the future land use map. For all these reasons and due to the non-controversial nature, oh, and by the way, I did reach out to the, it was actually the daughter of the person that lives there. It wasn't the actual lady that lives there that sent the email to staff.
 that I think is in your packet. I reached out to her and emailed her eight days ago, and I have not had a response. I volunteered to meet with her or have clients to meet with her, whoever. Anyways, so due to the non-controversial nature of his request, I again would ask you to move this to a third reading and pass it tonight. Again, I'm standing ready, willing, and able to answer any questions you might have.
 Okay, what questions do we have from council for the staff or the applicant? I have some questions. Jonathan, if I remember correctly, urban thoroughfare can be up to seven stories high. Is my memory correct? That is correct. And then can you remind me what the tree preservation requirement is for UT? The tree preservation requirement for UT is 15%.
 I'm looking at the map right now, and there's a residence, it looks like, sort of in the southeast corner. Is that the location of the mother whose daughter sent the email? Is that the one we're referencing? I'm just trying to make sure I know where that is.
 if we approve the change, we'll, you know, three-quarters of it will be surrounded by UT. Mr. That is my understanding, although the property owner, Rita Miller, doesn't share the same last name as the person who submitted the comment, so I'm not certain. Ms. I'm not sure.
 oh no i'm sorry it is the same last name marilyn miller yes i believe that is correct sorry oh okay thank you and then right and at the southern end of the the well actually at the southernmost end of the property um you know that borders on the creek it looks like there's another residence there is that is that true um i guess i should have driven out there to kind of take a look before tonight's meeting
 There is a property at 102 Plainview, which is owned by the applicant, and the property that was formerly at 103 Plainview was demolished. There was a home there previously, but it is no longer there. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. So really the only property owner are the Millers, I guess, that are in that kind of immediate area. Okay. Thank you. That was very helpful. I appreciate it.
 I asked the Ward 3 council members if y'all heard anything on this? No, and like I said, I looked through my emails again. I have not. But I mean, we can leave it on this reading. Seven stories is quite a bit to approve in the first time. But I haven't heard anything. Okay, what about you, Sarah? No, I haven't heard. Nobody has commented at all, which is surprising, but
 Okay. You know, you know how it is with, you know, sometimes people don't catch things when they go through. And, you know, I'm, I would like, I think it would be great to leave this on the first reading because we haven't heard from anyone. And I just like to give people an option to, you know, get their two cents in. So y'all basically, you know,
 I'm going to leave it on the first rating then. I don't know. What does everybody else think? I don't know your award. I'm just asking. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'd like to do. I'm good with that. I agree with that. I am too. I'd like to go out there and drive around a little bit. I'm not suggesting a tour. I could just go on my own. We could take a tour of this too. Just saying.
 Okay. I assume we can actually drive around that? That is correct. It's codified that properties on which zoning applications have been submitted, elected and appointed officials are allowed to go on them. Yes. Okay and we would be going through just their property or would we have to go through other people's property? You can access this property directly off of Plainview. Okay, awesome. Thank you.
 If there's not any other questions, I will ask for some public comment and then we'll just hold it right here on this reading. Okay, everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Lisa? No one, Mayor. Okay, does anyone in the chamber like to address us on this?
 Oh, I'm sorry. Do you have an applicant? Mr. Rhodes spoke on behalf of this item. I mean the owner-owner of the... Robert, do you have the owner here? Do not. Okay. I just thought I knew who this person might be, so anyway. Okay. All right, so we'll just leave it on the first reading then. Okay, let's go on to number six. An ordinance for zoning that property inscribing a zoning petition RZN 22-003 located at 22...
 35 West Weddington Drive for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and section two that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is about three-quarters of a mile northwest of the main University of Arkansas campus. It's on the south side of Weddington between Lonnie to the west and Seng to the east. It is just inside of Ward 4. Weddington represents the boundary between Ward 4 and Ward 2 in this part of Fayetteville. The property is currently developed with a single-family home, which is in somewhat of a visible state of disrepair.
 Another unique or distinguishing characteristic of the property is its dimensions. This particular stretch of lots along Weddington are very, very deep. While most of them have a fairly common 80 feet of width along Weddington, they all extend about three times that to about 240, 250 deep to the south.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 When looking at this from a compatibility standpoint, staff's findings were somewhat mixed. This is an almost uniformly single-family area of Fayetteville. There are a few exceptions if you go a little bit further to the northwest. There's a non-residential building that's recently been repurposed again in the last few years. I believe it's a locksmith building.
 Similarly, there's a few attached residential dwellings on the other side of Weddington to the northeast before you begin to find more and more duplexes and triplexes and apartments in the wider area. But that said, again, the immediate area is single family in nature.
 Another item that gave staff a little bit of pause with the request is one that's more of an urban form concept, which we've discussed a few times with you here. The RSF4 zoning district does include a very conventional setback, which requires buildings to be set back at least 15 feet from the street, which is Weddington in this case. This is reflected in what you see along the street there where most houses are set anywhere from 20 to 35 or 40 feet away from the street.
 Whereas the RIE 12 zoning district has a built-to zone, which requires the building to be within 25 feet of the street. So that is certainly something that staff took into consideration when thinking about the compatibility and the urban fabric of this area.
 And looking at it from a long-range plan standpoint, staff did find it to be more consistent. The future land use map does call it out as a residential neighborhood area, which does not mean exclusively single family. It indicates that it's appropriate to mix residential uses of comparable scale. And RI12 allows single two, three, and four family homes, which can definitely be in scale with other single family homes.
 Similarly, staff found it to be complimentary of our city plan 2040 goals. There are not natural features in this area that would be affected. It's not in floodplain. It's on a major transportation corridor. As was brought up at agenda session, there is a transit stop immediately to the east of it. It's about 300 feet out the front door of the house that's on this property today, back towards Seng.
 It's in close proximity to the fire station on Garland. And of course, Asbell School is on the other side of Weddington to the north.
 Other issues staff looked at in considering this, and we're topping a conversation at the commission, were access management standards that the city has. You may or may not know that depending on street classification and the land use of a property, the city has certain standards on where driveways can be and how free their access is to a public street. And that's based on some expectations about the safety associated with that.
 with a certain street's volume and how fast cars travel on it.
 uh ultimately staff felt that our access management standards do protect residents both future residents on this property and the adjoining ones from any sort of a traffic hazard we have not received any public comment on the request and all considerations taken together staff is recommending in favor of the proposal the planning commission forwarded it recommending approval albeit by a split vote there were eight in favor and when one opposed those in favor felt that
 The existing low density single family homes on Weddington didn't necessarily represent a likely future for this area. It's a major corridor. It's likely more appropriately developed in a more intense fashion that uses access to that corridor to get people around the city more quickly.
 There was also some conversation about the depth of the lot and how that could complement a future alley if that was ever built in this area. If that's not for consideration tonight, obviously, since this is mid-block and there is no alley or right-of-way back there, but it was an interesting line of conversation. The dissenting vote did pick up on some of the staff's comments about the access management and they ultimately stated that's why they were voting against the request.
 With that said, I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I have Pablo and Lisa Pagliani here as the applicants for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening. My name is Lisa Pagliani, here with my husband Pablo. We're the owners of 2235 West Weddington Drive here in Fayetteville. That's a 0.43 acre property to be discussed this evening for the rezone.
 We are proposing a rezone from RSF4 to RI12. This property sits directly on Weddington Drive where we are already seeing development of mixed-use commercial and residential properties. There are currently several duplex and multifamily properties in the area. Two examples are the Street of Duplexes on Lancelot Avenue, which is just 0.2 miles away from our property.
 and the four family dwelling unit on Turner Avenue. And then a few commercial examples would be the Fitness One gym, the church, locksmiths, acupuncture office are all just within a few blocks of our house. We believe that this rezone application goes along with the goals and opportunities set forth by the City due to continual population growth and density requirements.
 In our proposal, we would keep a similar scale to existing properties and would stay within the same setback requirements as RSS-4, as to not change from the current pattern of the immediate surroundings, but we would increase additional opportunities for housing in the area.
 We do see this as an opportunity to help mitigate the inevitable growth and infill we will see in the near future, especially along North Weddington Drive, which is just minutes from the University. As it currently sits, this is a four-lane, regional-linked street, which we believe does not lend itself to stay as RSF4 long-term.
 We appreciate your time to listen and discuss this proposal. More than just a rezoned application, we hope that you see this as an opportunity to set a precedent to meet city plan goals for additional opportunities for housing in the area and a project that would encourage infill and a little more dense development that is typical to better use our limited land, utilities, and infrastructure. And with that, we'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Thank you all for coming. Did I hear correctly that you're wanting to retain the setbacks of the RISF-4? Yes, we would be willing to retain that setback. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question.
 a lot of those houses on our side of the road are pretty close to the street i would say probably less than 30 feet from the road and it's something that we would be willing to maintain just to keep the same reading and the nature of it yeah um do uh do we need to would we need that i mean in the bill of assurance kit if we wanted to make sure that happened or
 Is this good enough? First off, I think I need to ask Jonathan about what is the setback that's set for the zone that they're trying to move to. Is that a build-to line? It is a build-to zone, Councilmember Harvey. For the applicant to be able to do that, the closest they could do under the request is building.
 Push the building almost to 25 feet from the street to observe the RSF for zoning district standards would require a request to a district that has that conventional setback as opposed to a built to zone. There are not any zoning districts in our code that allow.
 duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes with a conventional setback by right. Under the current RSF4 zoning district, they could ask for a conditional use permit, but I think that's a long-winded way of saying there's not an opportunity with a bill of assurance or otherwise to change the zoning district under RI-12 to allow for it to have an RSF4 setback.
 Okay. I was a little bit wondering about that because, yeah, I just wanted to bring y'all's attention. I'm sure you're working closely with Jonathan or his team to help.
 I really appreciate the effort, where that's coming from, where you're wanting to do that and consider the neighbors. It's really awesome. I do think that just keep in mind there what Mr. Kurth is saying about what you can and can't do, especially if you're talking to the neighbors and letting them know if they're concerned about that, if, you know, when it comes down to it, you may not be able to do that. So, yeah.
 Just check that out. I just want to encourage you to make sure. Thanks. Mr. Mayor, are you hoping to build two duplexes on your lot? Is that your goal? That's correct. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Jonathan, how possible do you think two duplexes are? How are you going to stack those and park them?
 I have not seen a survey of the property, but from what I've seen as far as just drawing dimensions on our available parcel data, the lot's width of 80 feet would not allow splitting and putting two duplexes on the property. RI-12 requires 50 feet of lot width per duplex. I think it would be very feasible to develop the property with a duplex. Again, there are very large lots with a significant amount of depth to them.
 I don't know if more than one duplex could be developed though it could potentially be under the recent accessory dwelling unit amendment you could build an ADU in association with the duplex for additional housing but at this point we're getting more into just iterations and potential scenarios yeah I mean the only way I could see is you have duplex parking in between and then a duplex behind it this is kind of difficult so okay thank you
 What other questions do we have? Okay. Well then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You can go. Say if you want to or you can stand there. Well yeah, I just wanted to see if I had a question regarding the... Oh you have some questions for the staff? Yeah, yeah. Sure, ask, go ahead, go ahead. Would it be possible to put them side by side?
 the length of the property with basically one access road on one side? I think that could be possible. I think that gets back to the concerns I was mentioning during the presentation about access management. Typically, in arrangements when we see driveways with multiple units on a property, the goal is to put the driveway as close to the middle of the property as possible so that it's not abutting your neighbor's driveways and getting close to those points of conflict.
 I think it's possible but it's always hard to ascertain. The reason I ask is currently there is two curb cuts for that property and so what we would propose is to keep the curb cut that's already existing on one side and basically cancel out the other.
 Again, it's difficult to know without seeing a specific proposal. For the council's benefit as much as the applicant, our access management ordinance gives staff much more authority to review existing driveways and curb cuts when you redevelop a property with the notion or the idea being that you're increasing the impacts, the number of units, the amount of traffic.
 So it may be that something like that is possible, especially if it's the safest condition and location for a driveway, but I'm not comfortable saying for certain without seeing a layout.
 It's pretty hard to make these decisions on the fly, so it might be better not to go forward tonight with this and give the applicant opportunity to talk with planning about your whole issue and what your plans, what you would like to do. And I think it'd probably be better to do that than try to make a decision tonight when we haven't surveyed it out, we really don't know everything about the property and what you want to do with it.
 Okay, well let me get some public comment. It seems that we will be holding this one as well. Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first.
 and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom on this one lisa there's no one on zoom mayor all right is there anyone else that'd like to speak on this this evening that's in the chamber
 Okay, bring back to the council. So this is an ordinance. What discussion would you like to have? What action would you like to take? Yeah, I would definitely agree that I think the applicant needs a little more time to go through all their options and to present it again to us.
 development's hard. And even the people, it's their day job, get it wrong. Sometimes we would definitely want to make sure that if we're going to rezone something, that it actually meets what y'all are hoping to do. So, I mean, we can let it roll to the second reading or table at 11.
 That's in Ward 4. Holly, have you or Teresa heard anything? I haven't heard any opposition. I did speak with the applicant though. I think that I would be in favor of this because I think that it would be, well actually I wanted to ask Jonathan this real quick before I go on. There is a property nearby that's NSL. Could you tell me the similarities between that zoning and what the applicant is requesting with RI-12?
 Certainly, and that for reference is the locksmith that the applicant indicated or described when they were presenting their item. NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited, and residential intermediate 12 units per acre are fairly similar in their allowance of residential uses. They both allow single, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 um and they have slightly more generous lot widths it's that you can go down to 35 feet for a lot width as opposed to 50 for single family and duplexes under ri12 the other the biggest distinction however is when you get into non-residential uses neighborhood services limited
 allows those very small thousand to three thousand square foot uses that you'd find like a like a CPA or an architect on the office end of things or a small barbershop or a locksmith getting into like your small retail locations or cafes as well. And when you guys were speaking with the applicant, do you feel that this zoning would fit what they are wanting or do you think that you need more time to speak with them?
 I was not privy to those conversations. I think our planners largely had those and it's my understanding that this came out of those conversations. So I can't say with a high degree of confidence whether this is exactly what they need or not but I do know there was quite a bit of back and forth between planning staff and the applicant. Okay. Can I call the applicant back up for just a second? Do what? Can I ask the applicant a question? Oh sure.
 You guys were speaking with Jessie Masters, right? That's right. OK. Do you feel confident with your discussion with her that this meets what you guys are needing? Yeah, basically she recommended that we do the RI-12. What we were wanting to do is put two duplexes. I had even drawn up plans of what that could potentially look like on the site to meet some of the requirements based on what I knew at the time.
 um which i did bring along with me but um yeah that's what jesse had recommended to me was okay forward with all right um i feel like i would be comfortable moving this forward if everyone on the council is okay with that um i mean i think we should leave it up to the applicant and the staff to determine whether or not this is feasible and not really get into the discussion of what's going to go in rather what's appropriate for the land use
 and we're going to be able to get that to the next level. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And I think that's what we're going to be
 Would you be okay with that? I guess my only question is we were told to send letters to all the neighbors so I would say that the neighbors are aware that they've received the letters so. Okay. I don't know how much more. Teresa, would you be okay if we moved it to the second reading and just held it there just so that we're making a little bit of progress?
 Well, I think there's some ambiguity here in terms of the discussion with the city planners. And so my inclination would be to hold it here and get that sorted out. So what do you all want to do? Somebody give me a little direction here. I mean, you want to hold it on this rating? Do you want to advance to the second rating? Do you...
 I think holding it here could be a good idea. We could still move it forward next time, but it doesn't make us move it forward next time. The only way we would have the opportunity there would be to table it down the road. So I see the utility in going ahead and not moving forward. So...
 I guess if I don't have a motion to move it to the second reading, we will leave it on the first reading then, okay? Alright then. So I suppose we will leave this on the first reading and then we will see you in, what is it, three weeks? And in the meantime, you can talk to staff and you'll get a better handle on what we need to do here, Jonathan, okay?
 Would you recommend that I provide some sort of sketch or a plan of what I'm looking to do with that? Would you like a plan? Jonathan, I'm sure you'll want to look at something, won't you? Or I thought, have you all not looked at something? As far as helping make sure this is the best zoning district for what you want to do, yes, that'd be helpful. As far as the City Council goes, though, they're,
 responsibility is to make is to review the rezoning as it is on its face they don't consider site plans and details of that nature there's no assurance if they were approved to approve yeah I think that's a good point to make because just because you might go along with the rezoning you might not be able to get everything in there that you want to get in there right
 Yeah, so I think the short answer is yes, we'll follow up with the applicant. What we're working on right now, normally, is just the rezoning of the piece of property. Yeah, correct. I mean, when we start getting into details of how we're going to build something and
 that gets him a little bit, well, for a while. Well, it's nice to have time to be sure that there is a mutual understanding of what this zoning means. That's where I think the ambiguity is, is understanding exactly what are the uses by right on this property for all parties to be sure they, you know, the setbacks, everything, not just use in general. So, I mean, we can...
 We still have the chance in three weeks to move it on through. I just think that this, it seems to me like that there's some room between now and then for everyone to get on the same page, not specific in design, but what are the uses and what are the setbacks and what goes with the zoning by right. That's just how I see it. Okay. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, can I ask one final question, and that would be of staff, is that just for my own edification, the applicant could theoretically have an attached accessory dwelling unit with the existing home and build a
 accessory dwelling units behind that on their lot is that an accurate statement partially when the or the accessory dwelling unit ordinance that was ultimately passed by council did not include the piece from when you're on the counts or the Commission that allowed for three units so they could do one attached or they can't do three units that provision was removed thank you
 So shall we leave it on the first reading and move on to the next item? Okay. Yes. Thank you all. Let's go on to the next one. Enjoyed that one. Maybe we'll have another one. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-005 located at 3066 East Joyce Boulevard for approximately $8.87 million.
 Acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services, NSG Neighborhood Services General, and RI-12 Residential Intermediate 12 units per acre kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to CS, Community Services, NSG, Neighborhood Services General, and RI-12, Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Okay Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northeast Fayetteville. It's well into Ward 3. It includes just shy of nine acres of land that are north of the strip development where you can find Signature Bank northeast of the intersection of Crossover and Joyce, which you can see just to the south of this property on the aerial image here.
 The property in question is currently undeveloped. It does, as you see again here, have frontage on both Crossover Road, which is also Highway 265, and Joyce Boulevard as it veers north and then east out into Washington County. The request tonight has three elements to it, which I'll highlight here. The first piece is to rezone the majority of the property, totaling five acres, to CS Community Services.
 to the southeast and that will be the portion of the property fronting on Crossover Road, the busier of the two streets the property accesses.
 The second piece of the request is to rezone the southeast corner, just shy of two acres in Neighborhood Services General, NSG, which abuts Joyce Boulevard right before it heads out into the county. And lastly is another approximately two acre piece on the northeastern portion of the property proposed to rezone to RI-12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 Staff finds the request to be quite compatible with the surrounding land uses. Granted, there are quite a bit of undeveloped land to the east in the county.
 or as you head towards the county. But of those properties that are developed, including that strip center to the south, the more auto-oriented development at the intersection of Crossover and Joyce, and then the attached residential housing to the north, staff finds this variety of zoning districts with this request to complement all of those and also potential future development as you head east into the other agriculturally zoned properties.
 From a future land use plan standpoint, the staff also found this to be consistent. This proposal and its layout has the makings of a traditional town form, or as we call it in city plan 2040, a compact, complete and connected neighborhood with these three zoning districts and presents the potential for a mix of residential, non-residential uses in close proximity to a lot of existing services
 Granted, it is on the northeast part of town and a lot of those infill attributes that you'd find on some of our previous requests aren't as in abundance. Staff feels that they are present enough that this does represent an appropriate request. The fire station down on Crossover is in close proximity. There's water and sewer immediately available. Our future land use plan calls us out as a city neighborhood area, which is intended for a mixture of uses.
 And of course there's a trail in near proximity and also transit surprisingly nearby on Joyce.
 As far as other issues go, staff did not identify any. We've not heard any public comment to date, and we are recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, forwarding the item unanimously. They felt that this request offered, I think as I put it here, an appropriate level of nuance as an alternative to a PZD. It gave a much more clear idea of what the property owner wanted to do with the property, short of actually drawing buildings on the site.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I believe Blake Jorgensen is available online as the applicant. Thanks. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor and council members. We are happy to present a project that we simply submitted to staff.
 And we were asking for the recommendation, and they came with a great plan, and we thought it worked well with this property. And we hope that council agrees with, you know, us and staff. And if you all have questions, I'm happy to answer them. So I'll leave it at that. Thank you all very much. All right. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Mr. Mayor. Four, three, have you all heard anything? Sloan or Sarah? I haven't heard anything. I do know the property, so I guess I have a question for staff. It's pretty hilly, correct? It's kind of got valleys and ups and downs. Is that correct?
 It does begin to slope as you head towards the north end of the site it does begin to slope upward but none of it is substantial enough or has the soils associated with our hillside hilltop overlay district. Okay we're not worried about drainage or anything? Correct. Okay. No. No it seems pretty reasonable. I'm glad that they're parsecting it up into
 you know not just asking for the highest zone for the entire thing that they're actually kind of paring it down as you get farther away from crossover so I like it and I haven't heard anything about it okay thank you yes for staff or the applicant either one it looks like a paper street running north do we know if the applicant has intentions to develop that street and connect it to the north eventually thank you
 I'm not aware of any, but Mr. Jorgensen may have a comment on that. Of course, that's a development issue, not a zoning issue. Well. I did get, you know, just kind of taking this back a little step, I wanted to add that I did get comments. I believe one person contacted me that was opposed to this rezoning. Didn't give you a reason, Sarah. I mean.
 Was it about the trees or was it about drainage? The trees, it was the drainage, it was the, you know, a combination of things that we, you know. Okay. And traffic, and I don't remember what all the others was on there, but it was the same. I'm always curious if you already know. The usual suspects that we get, we hear a lot of, you know.
 That's why I try and ask you all if you're hearing anything in your words, because you're going to hear it probably before I do. You'll hear it a lot. So I have a question for Johnson. Do you, have you, has John Scott or anybody sort of walked that area? I mean, are these trees significant or are they scrubby new growth trees? Do you have any inclination, any idea about that?
 I do not believe the foresters have walked the property. I did get a chance to visit them because after a site visit a week or two ago, I did notice some clearing had been done in reviewing that.
 In reviewing what the property appeared to be through street view and other historical aerial imagery, it did look like that was underbrush clearing. But Forestry did comment that if there was anything above and beyond removed, there is, of course, a penalty in our tree preservation ordinance. But that's not been determined. And again, to shortly answer your question, no, Forestry has not visited the property that I'm aware of.
 I do know the applicant has been talking to forestry about how to do tree preservation, but I don't know to what level that's gotten at this point. Okay, thank you. And can you remind me with CS, is it, I'm just trying to remember, now we've got three different zoning types on this property, and is CS 20, is that right? That's correct.
 And then you just mentioned RI-12 was, or maybe we didn't talk about RI-12. What percentage is that in the NSG? All of them are 20%. Okay. Well, that makes that much more easier on everybody. Okay. All right. Thank you, Jonathan. We have the questions from the council. Okay. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Lisa? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Who do we have in the chamber who would like to speak on this issue? Okay. All right. I'm going to bring it back.
 to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have anybody have any ideas or so what would you like well it seems like there's not I'm sorry about that it seems like there's not a lot of discussion it seems to me like this is appropriate
 as you look at the way that it's designed with the compatibility and the location. So if there's not an objection, this is I would like to move it to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezoning petition RZN 22-005 located at 3066 East Joyce Boulevard for approximately 8.87 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services, NSG Neighborhood Services General, and RI 12 Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 I think I'm interested in possibly holding this here. I don't know unless, do we have a reason that we need to rush it or any objections to holding it? Well, I know that. Does anybody want to do a tour on it? I'm curious about it. Yeah. It's in an interesting location because just below it is the intersection of Joyce and Crossover.
 and there's all the stuff that's around there. And then just above it, heading north, is the intersection of Zion and Crossover. So it's kind of in this area that people have owned 10 or 15 acres of land and had a big house set back and owned parcels of land, and it's now starting to be kind of developed. You drive along there and you do see the trees. But there's also a lot of...
 I don't know if this was a field at one time. You know how a field looks when it starts to grow up with sprouts and stuff. I think it might have been a pasture at one time. I'm not sure. Yeah. I think that I don't necessarily think I need the tour. I would like to just have a chance to go there. I haven't driven by unless somebody else wants a tour. So if you're in the council, which is the whole list, where it is also?
 Okay, yeah, I'd love to hold it. Thanks. All righty then. We'll just hold it that way too. All right, let's go to number eight. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-093 located at 1101 North Woolsey Avenue for approximately .75 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units breaker to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A and the legal description of Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 In Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in central Fayetteville. It's well within Ward 2. It's one lot north of North Street on the west side of Woolsey Avenue between North and Holly. It's immediately across the street from various county and veteran affairs facilities and parking lots and offices.
 It's developed with a house, which was built in 1926. It has not been used as a house for about two and a half, three decades, however. It was converted to the Cancer Support House in association with Washington Regional Medical Center and has been since used in that fashion.
 The request tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family four units per acre, to NSG, neighborhood services general. One of the main reasons for this request, or perhaps the main reason for this request, is to allow for the ongoing use of the property, given the size of the house, and doing it by right. The smallest increment of zoning district that would allow that is NSG, neighborhood services general.
 No other zoning district would allow it by right. NSL wouldn't allow for a building this large. Zoning districts like RO, residential office, are much more permissive and allow larger buildings, and if this were to be demolished, creates some more cause for concern.
 That said, while compatibility might be a concern in some instances when neighborhood services generals propose in a mid-block fashion like this, given the uses immediately to the east, Woolsey Avenue as a secondary connector between Sycamore and North, and also the county property to the south, which the city has limited zoning authority of, staff finds this request to be compatible.
 Similarly, this would allow the existing home to, or existing house structure to be used in a non-residential fashion. If you had an opportunity to visit it, it is very complementary to the other structures in the area. It's of a very contextual size that fits it. So again, staff finds the request compatible and from a land use standpoint. Thank you.
 We also find it to be compatible or consistent from a future land use standpoint, given the future land use map for this property is very specific. It calls it out as institutional, which rightly reflects its decades-old use as a property.
 as the cancer support offices, but staff feels that these are comparable to, the services offered by that are very comparable to the allowances of the neighborhood services zoning district. So we feel like that compliments it in that way. Similarly, the request also hits on several of our other long range planning goals
 including encouraging appropriate infill. This site has a fairly high number of amenities associated with it, parks, trails, transit. It has one you don't normally see, which is intersection density, which means that the numbers of streets and intersections in this area are at a very high proportion to each other, meaning it's easy to get around. There's a very low chance for traffic congestion. So again, we find it to be consistent with our land use goals
 Some other issues to consider, and as I've already hit on this first one, is that the property has been used non-residentially for over two decades, close to three decades now. This zoning district, NSG, that's requested is the least permissive zoning district to continue, allowing this as a comparable activity by right.
 And then the other item to share is that there has been some public comments on this item. From what we've heard so far, it's not been explicitly in favor or opposed, just a number of concerns expressed about not knowing how the building or the property will be used if it were to be rezoned.
 With that in mind, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council recommending approval. That was by a vote of 8-1 in favor. The Commission felt that this request was appropriate given the VA and county uses across the street to the east and would allow the ongoing use of the structure as it's been used for many years.
 The dissenting vote, it was not clear necessarily, but there were a number of questions about how the Cancer Support Center has been operating, which planning staff shared was due to an ongoing non-conforming use that predates some of our zoning standards. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. And I believe Allie Quinlan-Thurman is online as the applicant for this item. Thanks. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Hello, Commission. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Awesome. Thank you guys for having me this evening. This one is a historic preservation project that we are helping with. The home itself, we're working on getting listed on the National Historic Register. It's an unusual form of colonial revival in the city. It was a farmhouse when it was first constructed, and it wasn't until the 50s and 60s that the houses around this were built.
 And the city limits extended up to this area. The hospital did renovate the house pretty heavily into a commercial use as the cancer support center in 1996. And it's been operating that way since the 90s.
 And so in its current condition, it can function as professional offices or something similar in its exact condition. The long-term goal is likely to take it back to a single-family home, but the national listing process takes quite some time. So in the meantime, being able to maintain flexible use non-residentially would be very helpful to the preservation of the structure. So if there are any further questions, I'm here to answer them. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have in the council for the applicant or staff? I have some questions and comments, Mayor. I think this is great that you're trying to restore it and historically preserve an old farmhouse like that. But I guess my largest question is, are you just...
 What's the emphasis to now, I guess, make it legal or codify it or continue its use? I mean, why is the action being brought before us? And has this property just been essentially grandfathered in or overlooked over the years? I'm a little confused about that. I guess that was to Jonathan, maybe, or to either person. Thank you.
 I can speak to the second half of the question, Councilmember Turk. I cannot speak to the first half. Just as far as nonconforming uses go, there are allowances and ordinances for a nonconforming use to continue as long as it's not ceased. There's no discontinuance of it for more than six months, and the use has to be comparable to what was there before. So an office would need to become an office or something similar afterwards.
 I think that the applicant can speak to it better than I, but I understand there may be some concern as far as renovations. I know this applicant in particular has run afoul or run into issues where a building's use ceases while renovations are being done, and then it causes concern or questions for reestablishing a nonconformance in the long run.
 That was extremely helpful. I did not understand that process. So I guess a renovation could go longer than six months, and then it would be a question about resuming office usage. Okay. Thank you. All right. Any other questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? Yes, Mike. Mr. Mayor, I did receive concerns about,
 I think the community embraces the use, they embrace the structure, they embrace the legal non-conforming status. I think the only concern was by changing the zoning, they're in essence granting the potential for an expanded growing usage.
 potentially impacting parking or the appearance of a traditional single family neighborhood so I think the the use of the structure as is is totally embraced by the community and the neighborhood and the only fear and concern was the ability to expand the use at the site thank you sir okay anything else we'll take some public comment then
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and then those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom lisa no one mayor okay do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this okay
 So then I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 if the concern was that renovation would take longer than six months, could the city grant an extension of that so that it could, even if it took a year, that the nonconforming use of its present state could remain? How would something like that work? I think that's a great question.
 I'll need to depend on Mr. Williams for that, but I don't believe there's any relief in the code for that. The Supreme Court has said that when a city council passes procedural or development ordinances, you must follow them and you can't just waive them. So the only way to change that would actually be to amend the current UDC ordinance that does limit it to six months. I don't think you can do it on an ad hoc basis.
 You must follow the ordinances until they are amended. Thank you. And just as a quick point of clarification, this may be helpful. The use has been suspended for more than six months already. And so our understanding is that the grandfather non-conforming use has already lapsed. And so no use other than a single family home would currently be allowed. Hang on. You've got to be asking the council a question. You've got to wait. I apologize. Okay. Okay.
 Ms. Quinlan, thank you so much for that. If you have additional information, I'd like to grant you time to provide that to us.
 I apologize, you'd think I'd have this Zoom stuff down by now, but I don't quite yet. But yes, so the Cancer Support Center moved into a new construction building on the north side of town more than a year ago, and so the current non-conforming use that was ongoing has lapsed while the property was for sale and
 So we currently just to have any use in the building other than a single family home would require rezoning. So that's we did work with planning to try to find the least intensive rezoning that
 Anything that really is going to change the character of what was going on before would require a conditional use permit, which would need to come back and have additional review. But something like a professional law office, something like that, that has a similar daytime use to what was occurring there before would not require additional conditional use permits.
 So, Jonathan, if the concerns of the citizens or that Councilmember Whitaker discussed, would this new, if we were to pass this new zoning type, would expansion be allowed or any additional, you know, parking or anything like that, would that be allowed? Yes. And could you elaborate on the fact that, you know,
 what could be allowed with the new zoning designation? The Neighborhood Services General Zoning District doesn't require keeping the building, of course. It does sound clearly like the applicant is interested in that. So I can speak more from a use standpoint rather than a theoretical building standpoint, but the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District allows single, two, three, four family dwelling units.
 It allows office and retail locations up to about 8,000 square feet is the cap. Things like sidewalk cafes are also allowed. And that also factors into one reason that the applicant is concerned about the existing RSF4 zoning district. Even under RSF4, you could not get a conditional use permit to utilize this house as offices again. Because under RSF4...
 The closest thing you can ask for is a conditional use permit for a non-residential building of up to 3,000 square feet. And if the county records I have are correct, this house is closer to 4,600 square feet. Anything else? I'm sorry. I've got one more kind of maybe dumb question here. Sure.
 Is a PZD or something very specific allowable within our code to kind of limit but also address some of the issues the applicant has with the nonconforming use? A PZD could certainly do it. I don't.
 I don't know that it would be that much different than the neighborhood services general zoning district if it was brought forward. I think that the PCD would have to offer a higher level of detail than our typical development code. If the concern is making sure that the property stay as close to its existing state as it is today. Okay. Thank you for that. You know, I certainly like the ideas that were presented and I think that it does. Um,
 I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a
 I'm just going to say, since I've been on city council more than once, people had the vision. We did the rezoning, and then that's not what happened in the long run. And I'm not saying in this instance, but I have to be careful. What we have to do is, what I look at is, what is the worst possible development that could come in here under that zoning to impact the neighborhood or impact the historic area?
 I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point.
 from what i've heard tonight it's uh it's a great vision but it's not restricted to that vision so would you all like to hold this one as well sure sure well this is in my ward and there is a lot of just rumors about it because of what i said that there's concern about the historic nature of the property there's also concern about what could be put on this property by right
 at some point. And that's really what we have to think about when we're looking at a rezoning. I do love the concept that was presented. I just am not sure that we are guaranteed that. We're certainly not under the proposed zoning. There has to be something more concrete. And so that's why I would like to hold it. And I'm fine with that, Mario. I'm not fussing about you holding. I'm just wanting y'all's
 So you want to hold it and we'll just hold the thing and I'll go on to the next one. Okay. Yes. Yes. Sonia, do you have something? No, I was just saying yes to hold it. Okay. If everybody's okay, then I'm going to go on to the next one. All right. Let's go to number nine. An ordinance to rezone that property describing rezoning petition RZN.
 22-001 located southwest of South Razorback Road and West Cato Springs Road for approximately 5.99 acres from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan, but I understand Jonathan that council if I remember correctly, at the agenda session, the council wants to do a tour of this next week. So it will be held on some reading here. Sonia, didn't you want to hold it and then have a tour? Did I miss that somewhere along the way?
 Yes, that's correct. Okay, thank you. But anyway, go on, Jonathan. And it's up to you, Mayor, or the Council. I can hold off on a presentation until after the tour, if that's more helpful, or I can run through it tonight. I think you need to go ahead and go through the presentation.
 Good, I have it up. All right. This property is in South Fayetteville, well inside Ward 1 on South Razorback Road. You can find it immediately south of the intersection of Razorback Road and Cato Springs, just south of the Welcome to Fayetteville sign on Razorback Road. The property is currently undeveloped. It abuts city land to the west, and it's just a little ways north from Dow Cemetery, which can be found where Razorback intersects with Cato.
 the South Fulbright Expressway. As you can see on the aerial image here, there's a significant overhead power line which bisects the property. You can see that from all the cleared area running through it. The entirety of the property is within the hillside hilltop overlay district and with the exception of that area where the overhead power line is running, it sits largely within canopy.
 The property was rezoned at Neighborhood Services Limited as a part of the Fayette Junction plan some years ago. And the request before Council tonight is to rezone the property into a split zoning from Neighborhood Services Limited, NSL, to CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural, which you can see here where that dividing line will be between the two.
 Again, you can see that the entirety of the property is within Hillside Hilltop Overlay District, which is the green diagonal hatching that runs from this property all the way further to the west.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses It is a fair mix of zoning districts in this area. There's industrial Lee's own land to the east Community services can be found immediately to the southeast and northeast Property zone for multifamily uses is located to the north and that city-owned land to the west is
 is also P1 institutional. Staff found that the request to create this split zoning, which would normally not be desirable as it can complicate rezoning discussions, makes for a more clear cut indication what the applicant wants to do on this proposal.
 The portion zone RA is intended to represent their commitment to tree preservation on this property and then the consolidation of their development rights on the northern portion to be rezoned to community services.
 From a long-range plan standpoint, staff finds this request to be consistent. Whereas the property was deliberately rezoned, NSL, as part of the Fayette Junction plan, the council has very recently and repeatedly shown that there is some flexibility in those zoning designations on properties that development has not occurred on. Again, further to the north, property has been rezoned to CS a few times.
 We feel that by preserving some potential for mixed use development on the site speaks to the goals of the Fayette Junction Plan to create that mixed use node in this part of the city. As far as City Plan 2040 goes, we feel it's an appropriate request given the property's location on Razorback, a major transportation corridor that allows ready access to Interstate 49, the regional park, and then of course, immediately north to the University of Arkansas's main campus.
 As you may expect, though, again, this part of the city, the infill attributes are not very high, ranging from four to six on this property. You find just the normal things, having good fire response times from the station on Hollywood, access to water and sewer, nearby access to City Park and the trail which crosses Razorback further to the north.
 As far as other issues go on the site, one that was brought up to prominence when considering the request, and again, that agenda session is one of canopy and terrain. Again, the entirety of the property is in the hillside hilltop overlay district. This is not purely an indication of slope, as came up recently at the Barn South rezoning tour.
 Our hillside hilltop overlay district is not purely about slope. You find it on the tops of hills, as the name suggests. It is also about soils as well that can be less conducive to development. And as a result, we have higher design standards for homes and structures built in the HHOD areas, most prominently that they have to have larger footers.
 Also, there was a request to show some images of the property to try and get across the slope as it goes up from Razorback. That's always hard to catch in photography. I attempted to do so here. This is looking south along Razorback with the project in question to your east or on the right-hand side of the picture. You can see it does immediately start to go up from Razorback Road and it does not stop on this property. It does continue on the city property further to the west.
 This is another image taken from across Razorback Road looking west. And as Mayor noted, there is a council tour planned for next Monday. I've not advertised that through the clerk yet because I wanted to avoid any confusion that may cause to the public by sending one out yesterday for next Monday. So I will be sending that out with care of Ms. Paxton's help through the clerk's office
 There is going to be planning and forestry staff available for that. With all that said, in the considerations of land use compatibility and our future land use plan, staff did find in favor of this request. The Planning Commission recommended in favor as well, forwarding it unanimously. There was not a lot of discussion, but what was had largely centered on the applicant's use of the agricultural zoning as an assurance of tree canopy on the property.
 And to date, we've not received any public comment on this item. And I'm happy to take questions. And I believe Connor three is here in person as the applicant for the request. Would you like to speak for council? Conner three, the question told. I don't have a lot to add because I know you have your site visit on Monday. Just wanted to reiterate what Mr. Kerr said that we're going to use that two acres to the south for tree preservation once we do develop. We don't have any plans right now for development. We haven't got that far conceptually.
 but that was the intent of the owner was to leave all that two acres to the south there long razorback as tree preservation and if you have any questions for me before you got to that site visit i'm here to answer any thank you okay is there any questions from the council for the applicant or staff and keep in mind we will be holding this one for a tour next monday so what questions do we have with council for the staff of the app um jonathan i um
 I'm wondering if we could get slope information included in the packet before next Tuesday on maybe some topography about, you know, is it 15 percent? Is it 10 percent? Any of that information would be very helpful. Mr. Certainly. Ms. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Mr. Thank you.
 any other questions from the council okay well let's take some public comment in case there's someone here that would like to speak on it everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by then will be allowed to speak first and those
 President in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? There's no one, Mayor. Okay. Do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this? Okay. All right. So we will leave it, I suppose, on the first reading, and then we will take a tour of this Monday. Okay. Unless you all have something you want to say before I go on to item 10. Everybody good? All right. Let's go on number 10. Okay.
 An ordinance to amend Article 32 of the Federal City Code to change the name from Commission to Preserve Historical Black Structures and Cemeteries and to create black historical markers to Black Heritage Preservation Commission, KIPP. Whereas the commission recently met and unanimously decided to request that its name be shortened to the Black Heritage Preservation Commission.
 Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 32 of the Fayetteville City Code to change its title to Black Heritage Preservation Commission, Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 33.440, Establishment,
 of the Fayetteville City Code in its entirety and an actual replacement section 33.440 establishment as follows. The Black Heritage Preservation Commission was established in 2021 for the purposes and with the duties specified within this article. Mayor, Council Member Jones asked me to draft this up. He invited me to a meeting with this commission, and I attended the commission to explain what 
 what was the purposes and how it was set forth in the code. And the commission there decided they would rather have a much shorter name. They chose this name. And so I drafted up this potential code section on behalf of Council Member Jones. And I think I guess he's not able to attend tonight. So I thought I would just go ahead and tell you how this got here. Okay. Is Council Member Jones on Zoom? You know, I received a message from him. He will not be here this evening. Okay.
 All right. So what questions do we have from the council on this? I assume we're going to have no unintended consequences of like kicking the current members off by changing the title. I assume that they'll just carry over. Yeah, it's no problem at all. All we're doing is changing the titles of commission. All the members remain the same. No problem like that. Okay. Just wanted that on the record.
 Alright, what other questions do we have in the council? Alright, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. No one. Okay. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to speak to this? Nope.
 Okay, well I'm gonna bring it back to the council what discussion with the council like to have or what action item would Items with the council like to tell moves the spin rolls and go to second reading Second have a motion the same to go to the second week care. Would you please call the roll? Hertzberg yes Harvey Yes Jones Kenyon yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes
 Banch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance amend article 32 of the Fayetteville City Code to change the name from Commission to Reserve Historical Black Structures and Cemeteries and to Create Black Historical Markers to Black Heritage Preservation Commission. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Do we have a motion to second and go to third and final? Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey?
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance amend article 32 of the Fayetteville City Code to change the name from Commission to preserve historical black structures and cemeteries and to create black historical markers to Black Heritage Preservation Commission. Okay, well final comments do we have in the council on this?
 Just one quick comment. I'm sure that the Ontario will appreciate that we're moving this forward. Thank y'all. That's it. Okay, anything else? All right, Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Harvey? Sorry, yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terp? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number 11. A resolution to fund and request Mayor Jordan to promptly hire a grant facilitator administrator for the Federal American Rescue Plan Act ARPA funds disbursements. This is Mike Whitaker. Mike, you have this.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Fayetteville Strikes Me is a uniquely lean organization. $17 million in ARPA funding to review and disperse is going to require a significant amount of audit coordination, funding tracking, and it just seemed to me that it was in the interest of
 the community, the organization, and applicants that we use the ARPA funding to actually retain, whether as an employee or an independent contractor, doesn't matter to me, but to retain the services of someone who can dedicate their time to this particular function just given the volume of the dollars involved.
 that's it in itself sir okay kit you'll have anything you want to add to no no that's just it is it's basically asking the administration to look at this and hopefully get a grant administrator uh hired or on board one way or the other so that uh we can have a better handle on on how we're handling these arpa funds and i don't know if paul wants to add anything to that but
 I'm sorry, very quickly, I would just like to add that, fine, we're happy with that. We're going to look and we're going to try to hire somebody as far as the salary. Now, we're not sure, so we'll have to come back and appropriate it through the council once we've made a recommendation. We would like the option, if we have trouble finding somebody, we could look at the third-party contractor. But we're going to look very hard at recruiting someone for the period to do this work. We'll come back later on appropriation at that point in time. If you have questions, I'll be happy to answer them.
 Okay, is there any questions for? So this grant facilitator, are they making their own guidelines about who to approve? Is that part of their job to make guidelines
 what would their actual job be? We anticipate the city, city administration, we're going to have a team look together, put together guidelines as far as who's qualified, who's not qualified, then this particular individual would be charged with the authority and responsibility of seeing that those guidelines are carried out. Essentially what it is, there's a
 Great deal of work, great deal of things we need to make sure we comply with. A lot of rules involved here and that person be responsible for carrying out those rules. But we ought to have a team to put the rules together. Yeah, they won't be making their own rules like any other employee. There will be a job description that's developed by the administration or if it's a contractor,
 With approval of the council, we'll be providing what are the requirements for the independent contractors. So no, they don't make their own rules. It'll be done as normal. Okay. Let me make one final comment so we all understand. This particular individual would be under the jurisdiction of operations, which wouldn't be my department. My department and myself, I'm responsible for making sure that we're following the legal guidelines.
 This particular would be to make sure that we had operations and they were following the guidelines that we have. So under that circumstances, that's what they would do. I hope that clarifies it, Sloan. Okay. Thank you. Do we have a job description yet or are we working on that yet? We have not written one yet. Okay. We'll be working on this. We'll ask HR to begin on that job description. That job description will be written. Then we'll send it off to Johansson to spec it.
 They'll come up with a salary range. With salary range, we'll go through, we'll post it, look for applicants and try to get somebody who's qualified as quickly as possible. Again, this would have to be someone with some experience, with some grant experience and federal grant guidelines. Thank you. Any other questions from the council?
 I have one question. I mean, I definitely support hiring a grants administrator. I think from that long discussion that we had a couple of weeks ago, that was a really good outcome.
 But before us, there's the fourth whereas, where we are requiring, still requiring the $50,000 threshold. And I still have concerns about that. And if there's the opportunity to have a further discussion about that threshold level in the future, that would be great. Otherwise, I would like to ask that we strike that whereas,
 So that we're not locked into the $50,000. But I don't want to really hold this up unless we have to. You know, if we strike that whereas, would that mean it was any dollar amount then? Sure.
 I would suggest that we have that discussion where we identify the dollar amount, just not leave it open-ended, but we don't define it within this resolution. Teresa, I'll be happy to respond to that and could well tell you that
 The where I ask is really general that's not necessarily binding number one number two We have a starting place from the council in a range that we want to look we have to spec that particular position Whatever we do we're going to have to come back to the City Council and request an appropriation from you and
 So I really think at this point in time it's just some some guidelines there But but we would have to come back to the City Council for exact appropriation and a recommendation at that time We can't spend fifty thousand dollars based on this. I
 Would you like to add? I'll say that, you know, we drafted, I drafted it this way in order for us to get moving forward, to get the grant administrative process moving forward so that we can hire somebody as quickly as we can on there. The details of the plans or stuff, they're not been worked out yet. But the first step I think that city council needs to make is.
 is to ask administration, go ahead and get a grant administration process going. That's why I think that this is what we need to pass tonight. In the future, there will be plenty of time for other discussions about the details of the plan, which have not been worked out yet, but I think we need to get moving on this so we can start getting these funds awarded to the nonprofits. I would support leaving it as is right now.
 and then we can you know with the reassurance that we can work it out if we need to later on teresa are you in agreement with that okay i am i just didn't want to be completely locked in so i'm happy to leave it as is and then we can discuss it further later on if there's no other questions or comments i may have approved the resolution second did we have public comment i gotta take some public comment here okay
 All right, let's open the floor to public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic, and the topic is the hiring of a grants facilitator. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who do we have in the chamber who would like to speak on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna write back to the council. Do we have a motion in a second? Did we get that? Okay? Any final comments from the council? Okay care which please call the roll Hertzberg. Yes, Harvey Yes, Kenyon. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins. Yes Bunch. Yes Yes Thank you that concludes our business for the
 Lisa, do you have any announcement that concludes our business for the evening? Only one announcement, and that is that the vaccination incentive timeframe is ending this Friday. So anyone who has completed their vaccination between January 18th and May 18th can still apply through Friday. Thank you.
 Okay, mayor. I have one update. I was at the planning the Arkansas Public Service Commission hearing all day today and it's going on unfortunately into tomorrow also about the swept co requested rates and representing the City Council's request that we try to to
 avoid the millions of dollars of investment into Flint Creek to extend its operational life another 10 years. There are some procedural issues, but we have presented that to the Public Service Commission to try to get them to allow some input from the public before 
 the SWEPCO goes ahead and invests tens of millions of dollars to make the coal plant last longer when this is really obsolete technology right now. The current plant will operate at least into 2028 anyway, regardless of what we do.
 But beyond that, it seems like it doesn't make much sense to sink a bunch of money in there. And then Swepco would come back to the Public Service Commission and say, now we want to be repaid for all this money we're investing into this plant before the public has ever had a chance to ask the Public Service Commission not to have them do that. So that's what we've been trying to do. The Sierra Club has been very helpful on that.
 I don't think we'll get any definite answers out of this particular hearing, but at least we presented that we've got this in the air now So they know that the city's the city and citizens of Fayetteville are concerned about Having this coal plant just last indefinitely. So I just want to let you know that I'll be back at that hearing again zooming in tomorrow morning. Okay care I
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan. I would just like to provide an update regarding the public calendar that the City Clerk Office manages.
 As you can see, and I don't know if anyone has noticed yet, we are now posting the calendar events out a year in advance for everything that we're notified of. So how the process will work is each week we'll verify the upcoming meetings for the next week by removing the word tentative from them, and that way we'll ensure that the Zoom information has been included and that the meeting location has been updated. For anything else that's
 more than a week out, it will have the word tentative on it and is subject to change. If you have any additional questions, please contact my office. Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.