I'd like to call the City Council meeting of September 17, 2020 to order. Mayor, would you please call the roll? Unch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, I believe we have an opening statement from Councilmember Petty at this time. Matthew? Yes, thank you, Mayor. I want to apologize that I'm not able to make it today and thank everybody else for, of course, being there. I wanted to offer an explanation why I'm not a president in person.
 uh today this afternoon we were informed that uh one of our family members had contact with somebody who is undergoing testing uh the uh contact was uh last thursday and even if the test is positive uh we believe there's a lower low chance of transmission
 And of course, we're taking comfort in the fact that a majority of tests do come back negative. However, we've been advised that if the test does come back positive, that I'll be quarantined along with my family.
 And in conversation with the Washington Regional Screening Center today, they advised that I attend this meeting via conference call out of caution. And so that is why we are doing this. I appreciate your patience as we muddle through something new for us along with everything else. I also want to say that Council Member Killian is now with us. Thank you, Mark. All right. Thank you.
 this will be a special city council meeting um which is the meeting that we would have had tomorrow night but in the urgency of what we're seeing going on i decided to do a special city council meeting tonight so in the urgency of the uh covota 19. um i'm going to um
 i'm not going to do the award of finance reporting achievement that will be postponed until next city council meeting we do we will take the nominating committee report i believe you have that yes i do okay so um for our nominating committee fayetteville public library board of trustees recommend martha sutherland one term ending 4125
 The Advertising and Promotion Commission recommends the following candidates for appointment. Chrissy Sanderson, one tourism industry term ending 3-31-24. Reese Roberts, one unexpired tourism industry term ending 3-31-22. The Public Facilities Board recommends the following candidate for appointment. Leslie Ferguson, one unexpired term ending 12-31-25.
 Our nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Animal Services Board, Advisory Board, excuse me. Sarah Hance, one unexpired licensed veterinarian professional term ending 6-30-22. Civil Service Commission, Edith Hawkins, one unexpired term ending 3-31-23.
 Beau Biddle, one term ending $331.26. Paul Younger, one term ending $331.26. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, we have one term that is still vacant that ends $331.24. Porter Winston, one term ending $331.25. Allison Quinlan, one term ending $331.25. Richie Lamb, one term ending $331.25.
 Energy Improvement District Number 1, Nathan Kyle, Batiste Budenich, is that how you say it? Okay, sorry. One unexpired term ending 12-31-21.
 Environmental Action Committee, Colin Sangster, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 12-31-21. Thank you very much. Oh, wait, sorry, got more on the back here. PEG Advisory Board, we have two terms that are vacant. One ends 6-30-21, one ends 6-30-22. And we suggest Alexis Robinson-Ross.
 one unexpired term ending 6-30-23. Planning Commission, Quinton, Canada, one term ending 3-31.
 1-23, Matthew Johnson, one term ending 3-21-23, Jim Garlock, one term ending 3-31-23, Urban Forestry Advisory Board, Preston Thibodeau, one unexpired land development term ending 12-31-21. And that's it. Thank you. Okay. Now, if you're wondering why your monitors are not working, we're doing everything by paper tonight because with the spacings that we had to have, we couldn't fit everything
 everybody up here and get the monitors all working. Is that correct, Susan, wherever you might be? I always vote and apparently report on paper. Okay, so we will run it like we did before we had all the electronic stuff, which I have that skill set. So we have three walk-ons tonight. Do we need to vote on this? I apologize. I got in a hurry, didn't I? It's okay.
 We have a motion and a second to the nominating committee nominees. I move. I'll make a motion. Kyle, you had something? I do. I was able to help with that last name because the nominating committee saw fit to appoint my brother-in-law to the Energy Improvement District. Thank you so much. So I will be recusing from this. Okay. Okay. So we need a motion and a second to pass to nominate. I'll move. I'll move. Okay.
 Yes, go ahead. I'll be running that tonight. I'll make a motion to approve that. I will second that. We have a motion and a second to approve the nominees. Mayor, I also need to recuse because I have a pending financial transaction with one of the nominees. Is there anyone left to vote? All right. So, okay. So there will be two of you that will recuse, and we have a motion and a second. Mayor, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Recuse. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Smith. Recuse. Okay. And it passes, correct? Okay. All right, now we have three walk-ons tonight.
 uh the first one is staff recommends the appropriation of three million dollars from the disaster replacement fund in order to deal with financial issues arising from the coven 19
 coronavirus emergency and the approval of a budget adjustment paul i believe you have that uh mayor jordan before we actually get into talking about these voting on them we need to suspend the rules and place these on the agenda for tonight okay these are the three items that have been handed out to you and we would like you to suspend the rules and place these as add-ons to this agenda okay i need a motion second to pass three add-ons on the agenda i'll make a motion sorry i'll
 I'll make a motion that we add these three items add-ons onto the agenda Bunch yes Turk yes Smith. Yes Gutierrez. Yes Marsh, yes Kenyon. Yes, Eddie. Yeah Scroggins Okay
 The first walk-on is what I read, and I'll read it again. Staff recommends the appropriation of $3 million from Disaster and Replacement Fund in order to deal with financial issues arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Coronavirus emergency and the approval of a budget adjustment Paul Paul Becker chief financial officer We've discussed this before we have three million dollars in a disaster fund We were here to ask is that you appropriate that money for use if we need it to
 Discuss the financial ramifications and to meet the financial needs if we have them. We will analyze any requests and use the money as we need it, but council needs to appropriate that money so we can move forward at this point in time. Again, this will be a reimbursement for expenses. It will only be used if necessary, but it's necessary to have you to appropriate that so we can use it if in fact the mayor deems it necessary.
 Yeah. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Yes, sir? I don't know if it's for you. Is there anything that triggers us having to vote again? Is there any amount of money that ? Well, if it's anything that's over $20,000, we'd have to bring to you anyway.
 Essentially, we'd take it out of other budget. I would anticipate if we could and then reimburse. But if it's over $20,000, you're going to have to approve that separately. The other ones will be budgeted funds. We'll use this to reimburse those for these particular expenditures. So in those cases, you would, sir. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Yes, Tom. Are there any parameters on what this can or can't be used for during this? Statutorily? Yeah. Or where? Statutorily or in the way that we are allocating it? No, the only thing we're doing right here is restricting us to this particular situation. That's the only thing that restricts it. That's for our discussion right now.
 So just a point of clarification after we authorized the city to spend the three million dollars if you have enough if you have an item That's over twenty thousand dollars. Do you need to come back to the City Council? Yes, absolutely one clarification appropriate
 not expand we're going to appropriate it we'll spend it if we need it i do make the need to make that clarification we won't necessarily spend this money unless we need it we want it on hand to meet the emergency though uh i have a follow-up question it just seems um is there a way to suspend that because um if we have to have many city special city council meetings i just don't want your hands to be tied uh waiting on having many special city council meetings
 Well, when you're talking about the $20,000 rule, that's state statute. Okay. Thanks for clarifying. It's the same state statute on any of them. I don't anticipate we would have many, if any, to that degree. It's possible, but I wouldn't think so. I think most of this would be handled on a unit basis of less than that. But that's the state statutes for all purchasing.
 Any other questions from Paul? Yes, Sonja. Can you give us a little bit more examples of what kinds of things the money can be used for and could it be used for some of these things where we're hearing drive-through emergency
 testing or is that more on the medical side? Like what kinds of things would the city use this for? Well, we could use it for testing of our officers, of our public safety people if necessary. We have to pay additional overtime, which is one thing that we might have to address.
 We would pay it out of there. So those would be a couple of examples. We could also pay it for medical equipment for our people if we need to do that. We could also use it for some screening equipment if we need that in the office buildings, things of that nature. Any other questions? Okay. What public comment do we have? And we'll bring it back to the council. Is this an ordinance or resolution? It's a resolution.
 Okay, then I move that we pass the resolution. Second. The motion is second to pass the resolution. Eric, you got that? Whenever you get it, let me know. All right, could you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 in order to grant the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to provide for the safety and health of federal inhabitants and to pass the emergency clause kit whereas municipal corporations shall have the power to make ordinances which as to them shall seem necessary to provide for the safety or serve the health of such corporations and the inhabitants thereof which is aca section 14-55-102 purposes generally
 And whereas the COVID-19 virus presents a grave and a growing danger to the health of our citizens and residents, so that the City Council should empower Mayor Jordan to take needed measures as recommended by the Center for Disease Control, the CDC, the Arkansas Department of Health, or other recognized scientific and health authorities to slow the spread of this pandemic.
 And whereas these extraordinary powers shall include prohibiting the gathering of more than 50 persons, possibly requiring restaurant and bar owners to check each guest prior to admission into their establishment to ensure they do not have a fever associated with COVID-19 and other powers. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts the following.
 Title, Emergency Response to COVID-19 Virus Pandemic by Granting New Temporary Powers to Mayor Jordan to Reserve the Health of Fayetteville Residents. Whereas the City of Fayetteville's most important duty is to reserve the health and safety of its citizens and other inhabitants.
 And whereas the COVID-19 pandemic now presents a grave threat of illness and death to every American and every Fayetteville resident, and whereas the City Council has determined that Fayetteville's public health and safety required that the City Council place extraordinary powers within the Mayor's authority to better protect our citizens during this pandemic emergency.
 It is therefore agreed and enacted that Mayor Jordan shall have the following powers and duties during the first phase of Fayetteville's efforts to protect its citizens, beginning immediately upon the passage and enactment of this ordinance and emergency clause, and ending, unless renewed by the City Council resolution, on April 29th of 2020.
 Section 1. Mayor Jordan may regulate or prohibit the gathering of 50 or more residents in public or private places serving the public, restaurants and bars. Section 2. Mayor Jordan may locally enforce recommendations from the Center for Disease Control, the Arkansas Department of Health, and other recognized scientific or health authorities with regulations or prohibitions of activities that could increase the spreading of COVID-19 pandemic.
 3. Mayor Jordan may take other necessary actions to promote or preserve the health and safety of our citizens. 4. All regulations and actions taken by Mayor Jordan pursuant to this ordinance during this emergency shall have the full force of law and shall be interpreted and enforced pursuant to Chapter 10, General Provisions of the Fayetteville Code. And Section 2 is the Emergency Clause.
 The Fayetteville City Council recognizes that Fayetteville and its citizens are under direct threat from the COVID-19 pandemic and that our citizens' health and safety require that this ordinance, granting the Mayor extraordinary temporary powers to protect our citizens, constitutes an emergency such that this ordinance must and will go into full force and effect immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Mayor Jordan and I looked at this issue and this situation we found ourselves in. Obviously, it's somewhat difficult sometimes to get the city council together in situations like this. We're having all these problems, and we yet have had not, I think, a confirmed case in our city, which will probably not remain true very long. So...
 It was felt that Mayor Jordan, although he does have some powers under the proclamation, emergency proclamation powers, most of that is really to proclaim that and to work and do what the governor tells him to do and the boards of health tells him to do.
 But this particular ordinance would enable the mayor to actually enforce what the CDC has recommended about no more than 50 people in a public gathering and other things like that, which really should be within the power of the mayor to protect the health and safety of our citizens. But until you pass this ordinance, it is not in his power. So it is up to the city council as the acting governing body
 to place that power within the mayor's office and allow him to execute it, although only for a temporary period of time until October 29, which is the day after your second meeting in April.
 So that it's for a fairly short period of time and will automatically expire unless the city council decides to renew it at that time. It's really not October. It's April. April. 29th. Was I saying August? Well, no. We're looking at April. Sorry. So what questions do you all have?
 So I just want another point of clarification because I did get some questions about this today. This is only just to enact the power to potentially limit 50 inhabitants to a bar or restaurant, for example, not to bring it into effect this evening, correct? It doesn't bring it into effect this evening, but you would be granting the power of the mayor to bring it into effect tomorrow. As needed.
 It would be you'd be granting the the mayor the right to follow recommendations of the CDC and the Public Health Commission And I mean the State Department of Health and others And to in fact enforce it as you would any ordinance So it does, you know if in fact you grant this this is a an effective grant of power Temporary as it might be but it's a effective grant of power to the mayor to do that Yes
 Sarah can you turn your mic on please sorry I didn't know if it was working earlier so it ends April 29th is that correct it will end April 29th unless the City Council has taken an affirmative action by passing a resolution to extend it do we think right now that will be long enough
 Probably not, but I think we ought to wait. These are powers that the mayor has not had to exercise in the past, and I think that by April 29th or 28th, you'll know a lot more about what's going on, and at that point, you can decide whether or not you want to continue this or not. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Lisa, you had one, then Sloan, you had one, and then Kyle has one.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to clarify, right now it says gatherings no more than 50 people, but if the CDC makes a different recommendation, let's say 10 people, I think that was just on the news a little bit earlier today, does this grant the mayor the authority to ratchet it down to 10 people or whatever the CDC recommends?
 I think that to some extent this is limited by the phrase that I used, the Center for Disease Control, that they will follow the recommendations. The mayor may enforce recommendations from the Center of Disease Control, Arkansas Department of Health, and other recognized scientific and health authorities, not necessarily political authorities, but actually scientific and health authorities that might make these recommendations. And I don't think there's been any recommendation by us.
 by health authority of that in-person figure than there might be in the future, but I have not seen one. Thank you for that clarification. So just to be clear, the mayor can follow the CDC's recommendations, but he cannot make it more restrictive than the CDC? Not unless there's some other recognized scientific or health authority that would be making a more restrictive recommendation. Thank you. Okay, Shlomko.
 If the group does go over 50, I mean, would we do fine citations? What would be the mechanism for some groups like we're just going to have over 50? It would be of the establishment could very well
 Receive a citation and then eventually by the court may be a fine. It would be the establishment not the individual Because the establishment owner is supposed to be able to maintain and monitor his own establishment and make sure it stays within the laws and regulations of our city Had the same question Teresa did about the 50 versus the CDC, but I was also curious I
 We've got a general phrase about private places serving the public, but then we have a more specific parenthetical of restaurants and bars. Would he also be able to apply this to other civic organizations such as like a Rotary meeting or –
 Are those with those be included here or have we have we ruled that out with well the restaurants and bars are put in parentheses Indicate an example, but not an exclusive example. Okay. Thank you And I how would the city attorney interpret an attempt to apply this to? religious gathering Plot to religious gathering worship services churches I would doubt very seriously whether it would be applied to religious gatherings. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you. I
 Okay, any other questions? All right. Okay. Matthew, I'm sorry I keep forgetting.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Susan. I really appreciate that this is being done, and Mayor, I wanted to thank you as well for declaring an emergency early last week. Because of that, we were able to get a couple extra days for our schools and for our other institutions, and Fayetteville should be proud that we're ahead of this compared to other communities.
 But I feel that it's important that we recognize that comparing ourselves to other communities may not really tell us anything. The fact is we are probably still behind where we ought to be with respect to how many cases we have in the community, although not have been confirmed.
 CONFIRMED. AND INFORMATION THAT COMES IN EVERY DAY, SOME OF IT ALREADY MAKES SOME OF WHAT'S INCLUDED IN THIS RESOLUTION, WHICH IS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY. SOME OF IT IS ALREADY OFF THE LEAVE, LIKE COUNCILMEMBER TURK ALLUDED TO.
 with some of the federal guidance that has already been revised today. I think we're kidding ourselves if we think this guidance is not going to escalate every day going forward, every day. And we owe it to ourselves to recognize the truth of that, and we owe it to the citizens to, I think, talk openly about it. This language probably needs to be expanded even more to give the mayor more power
 because of how quickly this is changing. Changes should be implemented tonight. Tonight, every night this weekend,
 resulted, likely resulted in spread or raised the chances of it. Even though there aren't any confirmed cases in Fayetteville now, we're fools to presume that it isn't already happening. It's time to take these drastic actions, these painful drastic actions. It's time. I'm sorry, but it is. Owners and workers are literally begging us to do something.
 they are telling us that they need us to do something so that they can do things like activate insurance policies so that they can do things like have political cover for the customers
 They're begging us to take these actions. We need to take steps tonight, tomorrow, every day that just last week would have been considered extraordinary or dramatic or over-the-top and even today may already not have the impact that we expect and are hoping for. This can't be about measures and half measures. This has to be about
 getting the community ready with the next step, because there will be a second step and a third step. And doing things now will prepare the community for what is likely eventually coming. Nashville closed all bars yesterday. Ohio did the same thing.
 This is coming our way and it's going to hurt a lot. I know everybody up here has been talking about how we are going to come together in all of the ways that we should, including to provide meaningful aid packages to workers and to businesses. But the point we need to realize
 We can't lose this plot. We have to take these actions. We have to. Today is not too early. Yesterday was not too early. Tomorrow will be not too late, but we'll have missed an opportunity to prevent some spread. Okay. Thank you, Matthew. Any other comments from council?
 Okay, we will open it up for public comment Everybody gets one turn at the microphone you have a five minute limit. I guess I will keep the time Keep your comments directed to me don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public stay on the topic which is what is before you on the ordinance to To give me the power to do What I need to do
 to combat the COVID-19 virus for the next until April 29th.
 So, who would like to be first? Yes. Give us your name and address, please. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Molly Ron. I live at 2584 North Elizabeth Avenue in Fayetteville. I am here in my capacity as the CEO of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. We do receive funding from the hospitality industry. Our entire...
 My entire purpose in my role is to encourage people to come to Fayetteville, to attend events, to go to bars, to spend money in our restaurants, and to stay at our hotels. It has been apparent over the events of the past several days that it is...
 impossible for me to do so in a responsible way. My staff is trying very, very hard to celebrate our local restaurants. We have, I certainly have not talked to every restaurant owner or every hotelier in the city, but I have been trying to over the past four days talk to as many of them and with as many of them as I can. They are, as you can understand, terrified.
 The revenue that they will lose means, in many cases, food on the table. It means rent. And as you know, we are woefully unprepared in this state for protections for people that need it from landlords. And so I have, and I apologize for being emotional. This is a very emotional thing for a lot of people. The questions that I am getting are things like,
 I guess I should have led by saying I support this ordinance as difficult as that is for me to do. And I know it will be very unpopular with a lot of the people that we serve. The questions that I've had from many people who own restaurants in particular are,
 Does this mean that we can just go to carry out? Does this mean that we need to do away with dine-in and look at ways to go to go? Can we keep doing dine-in depending upon the size? My phone blew up today after the announcement from the White House that we were limiting gathers of 10 people.
 And so people are concerned about do we take additional investments with insurance and in logistics and with staffing to gear up, to mobilize, to be able to do curbside and to be able to do delivery only to find out in 48 hours that it's going to change again and they're limited to 10. So as this keeps moving, people don't know how to keep up and change.
 they are looking for guidance. I've had six people that are restaurant managers and or owners reach out to me and say it would be easier if this decision was they're worried about closing voluntarily. Many of them feel like it's the right thing to do, but they're worried if they do that, then they don't have protections from their own landlords if they can't pay their rent. They're worried then about their insurance policies.
 They're scared. So regardless of what is decided here tonight, I want to go ahead and say publicly that you will see me back here once we are past this, and I will be asking for your support in helping me do whatever it is that we can do within the limits of the current Advertising and Promotion Commission laws to be able for us to spend money to help these businesses however we can. I don't have what those answers are, but I'm going to be looking for them. I'm going to be looking for them to be bold and new and creative, and I'm going to want your help.
 So please know that this is not an easy thing for me or for my team to say either. So but I would like guidance on the on the what do we do if that advice changes which
 Kit you may have you may have addressed already though But I would love a little bit more clarity on that if that capacity number lowers and then also A comment from one restaurant person is that 50 people in a very small restaurant is altogether different than if you have a very large Restaurant, I don't want to say the names, but the person that I was spoken spoken with has a lot of room so 50 people for her
 you know, is very easy to do. She could have 70 people and be very spread out. There are places to where if you fit 25 in there, they're going to be packed. So is it a number or is it a percentage? Thank you, sir. Okay. Yes, Teresa. Yes, ma'am.
 So, you know, I'm not familiar with how this works, but if the city were to close restaurants and bars, would that automatically be allowed under their insurance policy? Or if a vendor says voluntarily we want to close, does that affect the insurance policy at all?
 I'm unclear. I would hate to speak to that and be wrong. I would imagine that it would vary, but I'm not an expert in how those insurance policies work, so I would hate to speak to that. I do know that it is a concern, whether it's a valid concern or not. I do know that it's a concern that many people have voiced. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Benjamin Mills with Fossil Cove Brewing Company. I'd like to address the insurance side of things. I talked to my insurance agent today. Pandemics are not covered.
 So any financial problem we run into is not covered by insurance. Most insurance policies include acts of natural disasters, things like that. This is not included. So I'd like for you guys to definitely keep that in mind. You know, the other thing, that's a really good question as far as percentages go. You know, obviously most of you are aware of who I am and what I do. It's incredibly scary to our staff and everybody else.
 the idea of not being able to operate as normally as possible just because over seventy percent of our business not only in the tasting room which is ninety percent of it is people walking in over fifty percent of our distribution business is also the hospitality industry that requires kegs and people coming into their businesses as well so you know to think about shutting businesses down completely to incoming traffic is going to have a much larger impact
 Than I think most people are considering when they're considering shutting us down and that's something I mean if you ask me some questions I have a hard it's a very emotional moment for us, and I'm really trying to speak for everybody I don't see a whole lot of my hospitality friends here, but I'm trying to speak for all this Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi, Mayor. Robert Lee with Renzo's Pasta over on 1214 Garland. You pulled the mic down just a little bit. Yeah, yeah. Robert Lee, 1214 Garland, Renzo's Pasta in the Townsend Steakhouse. Yeah, as a business owner, I'm asking and imploring, be kind because what you guys decide limits our paychecks as owners. If you take away our paychecks, what do we do?
 uh now guaranteed one we want to get ahead of this virus and as ben stated yeah there is no insurance coverage uh there's none none whatsoever so what happens to us is we're left totally out in the cold um to go's uh food chain supply uh it's gonna continue people have to eat
 So, yeah, definitely if we can keep at least a flow going and have cash flow, we have an opportunity to survive. If we don't and we're shut down completely, you're going to see a large amount of businesses go chapter seven and there's no recovery from that. So again, I'd like to thank the council and mayor for what you're doing. Get ahead of the curve.
 aware of not just employees who can get you know assistance because they're you know for their insurance that they're paying on their paychecks but it's also the ownerships that don't pay that insurance were exempt from it. So at that point we'd have nothing and
 So, again, thank you, and I hope we can come to really good decisions as things occur, and not knee-jerk reactions, which, you know, if you're talking 50 or less, does that impact the like grocery stores? You know, you're talking, you know, I don't know what, you know, things like that, because you got more than 50 people in there. There's a hotbed for, you know, for transfer.
 So, for us, you know, we're looking at 50 people or less anyway, whereas a lot of other restaurants eat 300 to 400. You know, are you looking at per square foot, or are you looking at actual numbers of people? So, again, you guys got a tough job. I hope you do it wisely. And we're going to abide by it, but we'll also have to look at, are we going to be able to survive ourselves personally? Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Yeah, I'm Curtis Arnold. My family and I own Cheers at the old post office on the square. My one question was, and I may have misheard it, about us as owners, managers, whatever you want to call it, checking for fevers. If we do stay open, how does that work? Or are we supposed to, I mean, we're not medical professionals. I don't know.
 I just found that curious. Well, I think the ordinance basically gives me the authority, the power, and I don't think we've totally vetted quite everything through. And I don't know if I have an answer for that question right now. Right now, this thing has happened so fast and so quickly, I'm making decisions, I'm
 Hourly and so I you know some of the things I can answer I know that this thing is Dublin about every 24 hours, and it is scary I wish I could say it wasn't but it's scary for me particularly as mayor of the city and so I
 Yeah, we will evaluate that. All right. Thank you back Mayor one one reason that we drafted this particular ordinance like this is because things are gonna be changing fairly quickly The mayor is going to be looking at all of these different issues the issues between small restaurants and big Restaurants and can they do something else like take temperature to do something like that? They would also provide some some help in in
 But that's all stuff that has to be worked out in the future. And to some extent, looking at maybe even a restaurant
 As a unique entity, if they might want to say we should be able to have more than 50 because we have such a big place to eat, we can keep people separated, we commit to do that. So there's lots of things that the mayor can look at and try to make this as fair to everyone as possible. We have health on one side. We have people's livelihoods on the other. So obviously none of these decisions are going to be easy. But I think it's best placed with the mayor and his staff at this point in time
 but of course we'll keep the city council well informed of all of the regulations that come forward and you know anything like this because you give power you can take it away so if you see regulations you don't like i think it's not fair something you can always go back and attempt to repeal this ordinance or do something else so we're going to try to keep everybody informed as much as possible but i think at this point in time makes a lot of sense to place the power with our mayor
 and his staff to weigh all these considerations and try to come out with the fairest and safest regulations we can.
 Okay. Yes, sir. So on this, would we be wise to go ahead and strike under number one the 50 or more residents, and maybe we just say prohibit gatherings? And then I would suggest that in that way let the CDC guidance determine what the gathering size is, and then I would suggest when looking at bars and restaurants, we look at a percentage of their occupancy rates that they're approved from, and that would be a more reflexive approach.
 way to approach it if everyone went down to say 50% of their approved occupancy rate to give people more space and then that doesn't matter if you're a small restaurant or a large restaurant. And those are really good points and we've had some of those discussions and you know what's interesting, Kit wrapped this thing up this morning and this has changed this quickly by the afternoon. So
 Yes, you know, it was 50 then. It was first they started off with about 150 to 200, and then everybody started talking about 50, and now everybody's talking about less than that. Well, then I would like to move that we amend the ordinance under number one.
 To remove of 50 or more well, can I get the rest of the public comment? I know it doesn't look like there's a lot, but there's folks down in room 111 that may be traveling upstairs, so I What are the public comment do we have okay? I'm going to bring it back to the council so sir you want to make an amendment to strike the 50 yes second to
 I just would say prohibit the gathering of residents and then we'll just let the CDC guidance or whatever the control in fact whatever the controlling factor is to make that determination so do you just want to remove 50 from that then yes yes I got Sloan and then I got something
 So we removed the 50, we're improving gatherings. What's a gathering at that point? Two people? I mean can we say gatherings of size based on city recommendations or something of that nature so that... That's what Sarah said. Well we really already got that in subsection two. Okay. I just want to make sure that... The reason I put that in there and suggested that was because obviously this is going to
 something that's going to be very difficult. And so I thought that we needed to have something explicit. And it says may in there. It doesn't say the mayor must do that.
 But I wanted to make sure that we understood the seriousness of the situation that we might have to go down to 50. My thought was that as we look at each situation individually, and like you say, whether they're normal occupancy limits, and that was to be certainly something to be considered, that the mayor might fine tune this a lot on what he's going to do, but depending on the restaurant and its square footage,
 So you can take 50 out, but I wanted to have it in there. The reason I put it in there is because that's what –
 the CDC had said and that's really pretty stringent if you look at the other cities and stuff around but if you want to take it out that's fine I don't cry. I think it would be wise to go ahead and take it out at this point and take guidance from the Center for Disease Control or the other recognized scientific or health authorities and that way because who knows if we will have an opportunity to reconvene again to uh
 I just want us to be to prioritize public safety and prepare for any eventuality. I don't have a text. Would Councilmember Petty like to come in and make sure? Sure. Matthew, what do you have? Yes, thank you. Well, I concur with the amendment and for our city attorney, I really appreciate the intention there to just make sure that we're managing expectations and I guess that's why I support the amendment.
 I mean, it's a fact. Closures might become necessary. And I mean, that's just an act as painful as it's going to be. And we need to be prepared that we don't have to come back together again like this in this kind of a meeting just to authorize it whenever it's that kind of an emergency. I guess we need to take some public comment on the amendment. Yes, please. Yeah, come on. Thank you.
 I'm Terry Jones, 164 North Shipley in Fayetteville. A lot of the community meals, like as of today, were shut down. The library was shut down today. Senior Center was shut down today. What is supposed to be done as far as in regards to the community, in regards to the meals? I know. I don't know if I've got a great answer for you for that one or not.
 Molly, we're on 2584 North Elizabeth Avenue in Fayetteville. Just to address the last comment about community meals, I don't know about all of them, but I do know that St. Paul's Episcopal Church was still active with their community meals on Monday and intend to also be on Wednesday. So I know that there are some in the city that are not shut down and that have every intent of continuing with it, but moving to a carry-out option. Thank you. Okay. All right. Any other comments on the amendment?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the amendment anymore? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. All right.
 Now we're back to the amended ordinance. We've had public comment on the ordinance. So let's wish it to council. Yes. I just appreciate the quick action that the administration is taking, and I'm fully in support of us doing what we need to do to keep our community safe. I recognize it's a scary time and that these are broad powers, but I think that we're –
 we're as prepared as a community could be and i think we uh we're all going to do our best so with that i i move that we uh i guess since it's an ordinance we have to suspend the rules and go to the second reading we have a second i'll say that we have a motion in a second did you get that character sir second okay you ready all right yes
 Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Sorry. An ordinance to grant the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to provide for the safety and health of Fayetteville inhabitants and to pass an emergency clause. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second from Sarah and Sarah and Sarah and Sarah.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. An ordinance to grant the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to provide for the safety and health of Fayetteville inhabitants and to pass an emergency clause. All right, what final comments do we have in the council?
 Yes. Got a couple of questions. How would regulations under this be communicated to the public?
 We're putting out every day. I know that we have our website. We're putting out the latest thing. Yes That's right mayor And so we would use the channel that we've established and we would continue to push it out through the social media But direct everybody back to the website there are daily updates there hourly updates if need be Thank you I would also suggest that we have these any regulations that you propose in written form and filed in the city clerk's office also and
 Mayor, since this is offering you a lot of latitude there, I would assume, but I think it's probably worth stating in light of the last comments, that I would not expect you to interpret or regulate in any way that endangers the community's access to food or those kinds of things. And I just wanted to let you know that I have that confidence in you.
 any other final comments yes um i did encourage people today to sign up for the alerts and notifications and you can do that on the city's website as well so you can get them directly to your email if you'd like to sign up for that okay any other final comments i would like to say that this is not something i really am thrilled to get to do it's uh it creates a it creates a weight because
 you know that whatever decision you make, you're gonna impact somebody. I really don't wanna hurt anybody. But the time has come that we've got to take action, I believe, and take action quickly. When I'm looking at this virus and it is doubling every day, then we know that we are in a serious health crisis. We've got to address it. And we've got to be proactive instead of reactive.
 so the decisions i make i will make and i will bear the responsibility of those decisions however they might be so i want everybody to know that i've been one that when i'm asked to make a decision i will do it and i will do the best decision i know how to make to protect everybody that includes the business owners it means the citizens and that's not going to be easy so i'm going to rely on you council members
 with your help whatever we put out every day we will have a report every day that will be on our website i always put that on my facebook if i would and i usually just say these are the next steps if you would just do that and get the word out on what we're trying to do that would be very helpful to me and we'll get through this you know what we are this city is this city is strong people
 This is a serious situation, but we're strong people, and we'll get through this thing together. But we've got to act, and we've got to act quickly. So as this thing changes, I know that I work on the Meals on Wheels route for senior citizens, and some seniors, that's maybe the only meal they get every day, and that weighs on me. So that all being said, I will do the best job I know how to do around here, and I certainly will.
 Appreciate your support in this and I want the people to know that we're going to take action and we're going to take action soon and with that, Matthew, I know you're not here. Do you have any final comments you want to make?
 No, thank you. I appreciate what you just said. I think the community is looking for you and to the rest of us for leadership. And I can't say that I'm glad that we're taking these actions tonight, but it is necessary. And thank you for bringing it forward. And I hope that you will take the next step soon. Okay. I know I saw Representative Denise Garner here. I'm certainly going to need your all's help in this too, Denise.
 We're all in this thing together. We truly are all in this thing together. And together, we'll get through it. Yes, you may. So I am Denise Garner. I'm the state rep from Northwest Arkansas to District 84.
 And I agree with Molly. We've talked to. We've talked quite a bit. Um, most of you know, I've been in Fayetteville for thirty five years, worked with a lot of different organizations and and partnered with two restaurants. And so I understand how difficult this decision or the potential for these decisions are.
 I also am listening to my son who is an MD and has his master's in public health and is on the front lines in Tennessee watching Nashville caregivers in the ER, in the ICU now, and folks that after they've made recommendations to keep those limits down,
 Students are still hanging out in bars, and it's tough to make those very difficult decisions, but we're going to have economic difficulties either now or later. And the difference is if we have them now, we won't have the mortality and morbidity that we'll have later.
 And I do feel like, and this is something that I've talked to several people about, we are working together in the region and the state with the health department, with the healthcare services, with education, and we need to do that with the cities in the region. We need to do that with every mayor, with every county.
 And we need to work together. Public Health 101 is basically that the communities are the ones that are determining the needs of their own community. And then the state and the federal government, the state should be helping with finances. The federal government should be helping with supply chain and those national and international things that the communities can't do.
 But I agree with you, Mayor, in that we are a very creative group. We're a stalwart group. We can do a lot of different things. And most of the...
 13 states that are all of the 13 states that have banned What they're calling indoor seating or indoor service for restaurants are trying to make sure that those restaurants have a part in some of the other issues that we're dealing with like feeding seniors or feeding students or some of those kinds of things and the point is to try to keep the
 We do we already know we have COVID here. We don't have the test to test everybody here. We know we have clinically Clinically diagnosed folks with COVID so it's just something that we have to deal with and the sooner we deal with it I think the less economic burden and the less certainly mortality and morbidity but
 know that I personally am here to help my husband is on the front lines with his cancer patients and Anything that that I can do personally anything that I can do to help with the state I'm here to help do that. So thank you very much for all of you guys. I appreciate everything we're trying to do Thank you Okay, any other final comments? Okay care would you please call the roll? Oh
 Bunch yes Turk yes Smith yes Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes, Eddie. Yes Scroggins yes Thank you council very much Okay, we have a
 councilmember Smith has brought a resolution to express the City Council support for the release of pretrial nonviolent detainees from the Washington County Detention Center to reduce the risk or impact of COVID-19 outbreak in the jail and protect public health during a state of emergency Collin I believe you have this. Thank you mayor I was contacted yesterday
 by someone who reminded me that, well, we just spent a good chunk of time talking about groups of 50. We have people living here in our city and a
 much larger than 50 person petri dish that they have no option to get out of because they cannot afford to pay their bail And Stan Edelman is here tonight. He's the Washington County Detention Center's ombudsman and Has been working through the bail project and other other groups To assist some of these folks, but in this situation now I
 time is even more of the essence because these are folks that are sitting in jail with no way out and There it will only take one person booked into the detention center to expose
 Guard and another inmate And that will go through the entire population and it will impact families and and the rest of the community And so this is I understand we have no jurisdiction over the the jail in this Directly, but I think it's important that we take a leadership role and express The importance this has to the public community health To those who can make this decision. Okay, I
 Standing will say something. Yes, you'll be like the act Good evening, and thank you. Mr.. Mayor. Thank you council members. Thank you Kyle for Getting this on the agenda in very short order. My name is Stan Adelman 485 North Monroe Station Drive, Fayetteville I see familiar faces here because I had the privilege of serving the city a few years back and
 from 2002 to 2008 as a member of the Civil Service Commission serving as chair for one year. And also the real pleasure of getting to work with Kit whenever issues came up.
 This request really follows right on the heels of the previous ordinance, the previous action that the city council took. And granted, as Kyle said, the jurisdiction lies at the county level, not at the municipal level. But as Kyle said, there are...
 somewhere in the area of 700 or 800 detainees and prisoners in the jail, some of them sleeping on mattresses. The county hired me before this whole COVID pandemic arose. It was not in anyone's
 contemplation last summer when the county through the quorum court hired me to come into the jail and make recommendations as to who can be safely let out consistent with with public safety just because of the seriously overcrowded situation. To state the obvious, the jail is located in Fayetteville
 people from Fayetteville are detained there, people from Fayetteville work there, and the jail has a very highly transient population. People don't spend a whole lot of time in the jail, so they're in and they're out. I have sat down with Sheriff Helder and his command staff and their medical staff, and they are doing the temperature scan, the no-touch scan,
 scan of new committees coming in but as Kyle said it
 It only takes one. Right now, the jail is, as far as we know, COVID-19 free. But again, there are people everywhere who are not symptomatic yet, and we don't know who all is in there who might take that virus out, spread it in the jail, take it home to their family, to their loved ones, stop off at Harps on the way home from their shift if they work there. And
 I just saw an editorial in the New York Times today, very pointed editorial, looking at the jails of the country all around as potentially the epicenter. Again, if there's one case that breaks out in the close quarters, close confinement in which everybody exists in the jail, that will spread like wildfire. It is literally, I'm trying not to be too melodramatic, but I can.
 literally potentially a matter of life and death. And again, Fayetteville is right at the heart of where this could happen. Again, the jail is taking measures, as far as I can tell, the strongest measures they can to prevent. And they do have quarantine protocols in place from previous viral outbreaks. So they have a response system in place. But again,
 What I've done at the county level is make a request to the Quorum Court, which is still pending and still hasn't got a definitive response to. I've made a request, and I say this without criticism, I've made a request to the Circuit Court judges.
 in the county to do whatever they can, all the more so. I mean, I was beating on the drums nine months ago, but I'm beating all the louder right now to get as many people as they responsibly can out of the jail, maybe with electronic monitoring, moving up cases, getting the
 Again, stating the obvious, the smaller the population is in the jail, the lower the potential downside is, and the downside is still pretty darn scary. So I'm coming before this body, asking the city as the largest municipality in Washington County to go on record urging people,
 the county, and this would be through the county judge and the quorum court, again, to take whatever measures can be responsibly taken to reduce the population of the jail, mainly by, again, looking at nonviolent offenders, people with nonviolent disabilities,
 charges and that's the majority of people being detained pretrial in the jail right now and just kind of urging our cousins if you will at the county level to proceed accordingly again the way it's happening in other places all around the country. Thank you I'll be happy to answer any questions that I can. What questions do we have? I'm sorry Teresa then we get my attention over there.
 Have you spoken with the sheriff about this idea and if he would be able to accommodate in terms of tracking and any other concerns he may have about this suggestion? Well, I've been speaking with the sheriff and his staff kind of –
 on a regular basis all along, ever since I started last summer. This particular proposal he is aware of. He has not formally endorsed it. So I don't want to kind of speak out of turn by putting words in his mouth, but my strong sense
 is that he is favorably disposed, again, to pretty much anything that will make life easier, make things less overcrowded, less dangerous, and I dare say potentially lethal in the jail. But I can't go so far as to say
 that Sheriff Helder has endorsed the proposal. We have made Matt Durrett, the county prosecutor, aware and the public defender's office aware. And my sense is that they are doing what they can. Maybe more can be done. They're doing what they can to get to push cases through the system, maybe get court dates moved up, again, to get people out of the jail. Again, I'm looking for and I'm hoping for a positive
 response at the county level and I think that again that this body's endorsement could only help. Thank you for bringing it to our attention. Thank you. Anybody else? What public comment do we have on this? Okay bring it back to the council. Mayor it occurs to me that the entire resolution has not been read to the public and we did just bring it out. I'm not sure if that's a problem pre-asking for public comment or not.
 Okay, would you like the resolution completely read? Do you have that? I have it unless Kyle would like to read it. You can, I can, it doesn't matter. I just want to make sure. I'll be good. I'm fine. I'll just read it. The title's already been read. Let me read the whereas clauses. Whereas the United States of America, the state of Arkansas, and the city of Fayetteville have all declared states of emergency in their respective jurisdictions resulting from the worldwide pandemic of COVID-19.
 And whereas leaders at all levels of government have urged and sometimes ordered people not to gather in large numbers, but rather practice social distancing in order to lower the risk of public and flatten the curve of COVID-19 infection. And whereas public health officials have widely recognized that concentrated human environments such as jails are particularly susceptible to outbreaks of communicable diseases in general and COVID-19 infection in particular.
 And whereas the consequences of COVID-19 transmission in the Washington County Detention Center would be potentially catastrophic to jail detainees, sentenced prisoners, staff and their families, and in turn to the citizens of the city of Fayetteville with whom they interact.
 and whereas significant reduction in the population of the jail through the release of pre-trial detainees who are not charged with violent offenses and whose previous histories do not reflect a history or pattern of violent behavior would reduce the likelihood or severity of an outbreak in the jail mitigate the public health risk to all of our citizens and even potentially save lives now therefore be resolved by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby urgently request that all branches of the Washington County government take necessary and responsible measures to reduce the population of the Washington County Detention Center via the pretrial release of detainees charged with, but not convicted of, nonviolent offenses. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas urges that no one be detained in jail solely because of financial inability to post bail or bond.
 that bonds be set only in the reasonable proportion of the seriousness of the crime charged and the defendant's previous history, and that all law enforcement and criminal justice agencies take appropriate measures to assure, to the extent possible, that limited jail space be reserved primarily for defendants who are demonstrably dangerous. And this was your resolution, Kyle. Thank you.
 Thought it might be best for everybody know exactly right this is this is likely to be one that has questions So I want to make sure that everybody knows what we're talking about Okay, do we have a motion in a second on this yet as I move that we accept this resolution
 Tony, you make the motion. Sarah, you're the same. All right. Terry, you got that. All right. Mr. Mayor, I let slip last time we have an emergency clause on the previous ordinance so it can be effective immediately, and that requires a separate vote, which you cannot vote on. That's one of the few things you can't vote as the mayor, and it requires six affirmative votes. So I would ask for someone to move to pass the emergency clause from the ordinance that we just passed. So moved. Second. Second.
 We have a motion to second to pass the emergency clause. All right. Any discussion on that? All right. Cameron, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Erk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Thank you very much, and I apologize for not catching that. Everything's a little topsy-turvy a little bit tonight, so...
 All right, so now we have a motion in a second any final comments from the council on this all right Here, would you please call the roll bench? Yes, Eric? Yes Smith? Yes Gutierrez? Yes, Marsh? Yes, Eddie yeah Scroggins yes, all right. Thank you all very much. Thanks to all your work that you're doing on Thank you, okay on the consent agenda I
 Number one. Now, council, what I have in mind tonight, we've got about two or three items on just so you're prepared. I know Susan has been in contact with you, but I want to pass the consent agenda tonight because I had several people call wanting to comment on some of the other ones, but actually to tell you the truth, some folks were a little concerned about gathering with us tonight.
 So until this thing, I want to postpone everything but two or three things on new business. And then like the disposable bag and the pay plan and that sort of thing. A lot of folks want to weigh in on that. And I want them to feel comfortable coming here to tell you the truth. And I don't know how many people are staying away because they're staying away from any type of gathering. So what we will do, we will just sort of bundle all those up.
 And then we'll table them for the next council. So I said all that to say, now I'm going to go on to the consent agenda. All right. On the consent agenda, number one, approval of the March 3rd, 2020 city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the supplemental agreement. Number four, to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated any amount not to exceed $125,258 for construction management and observation services associated with the highway construction
 16 utility relocations project. Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of three Hustler Super Z mowers in
 from Williams Tractor Incorporated in a total amount of $28,485 pursuant to a state procurement contract. Number four, a resolution to authorize the purchase of an asphalt repair truck and roller from Burke Camp Incorporated of Salina, Kansas for the amount of $204,890 pursuant to a source wheel cooperative purchasing contract. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Craftco Super Shot crack sealer from Williams
 sasco and southern star materials of springfield missouri for the for the amount of eighty one thousand five hundred thirty two dollars and one cent pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract number six a resolution approved the purchase of three chevy traverses from chevrolet a federal and total amount of seventy four thousand nine hundred and ninety one dollars pursuant to a state procurement contract number seven a resolution to approve the purchase
 of two Dodge Ram 1500 trucks from Lewis Ford to Federal in total amount of $43,268 percent to a state procurement contract number eight a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to convey a multi-use Trails easement to the city of Springdale to to allow a natural natural
 natural surface mountain bike trail to cross through city of federal property number nine a resolution to Ward bid number 2034 and authorized the purchase of trail light fixtures from Vision Air lighting LLC for the unit price of 1 100 and fiberglass light poles from Alliance composites Incorporated
 for the unit price of $450 plus taxes and freight charges in variable amounts as needed through December 31, 2020. Number 10, a resolution to approve three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation Incorporated for the airport hangar at 4248 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $3,084 per month. Number 11,
 A resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation Incorporated for the airport hangar at 4230 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of
 $1,387.80 per month. Number 12, a resolution authorizing acceptance of the Arkansas Community Foundation grant award in the amount of $20,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 13, a resolution to approve the purchase of trash and recycling containers and compactor related products and services from waste quib companies
 incorporated pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract through july 7 2021 and any future renewal periods number 14 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of twenty four thousand two hundred seventy three dollars representing a donation from friends of yrcc to fund summer and fall programs offered at the avon richardson community center
 Number 15, a resolution to authorize a one-year contract with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms with Arkansas Occupational Health Clinic. Any amount of not to exceed $8,000 for physical exams and health screenings for the fire department employees at a cost of $364 to $775 per exam. And number 16, a resolution to authorize purchase of protective bunker gear for the fire department
 on an as-needed basis from Casco Industries through December 31st, 2021, pursuant to a regional cooperative bid process through the City of Springdale. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda's read. So moved. Second. We'll go with Sonja. Kyle, say this. Sonja, you'll take care.
 all right you ready ready all right please call the roll bunch yes eric yes smith yes guitarist yes marsh yes eddie yeah scroggins yes hey thank you all very much now we're going to table under unfinished business one and two
 yes i think we need a motion to table both the ordinances in unfinished business to the next meeting of april 7th of this year so moved second theresa gave the second on that one are you talking about uh b1 unfinished business b1 and b2 so do do we have to have a motion for that or can can we have to have a motion sarah made the motion and trace the second table that yes i have a question um
 Are we planning to just table until our next regularly scheduled meeting or will we be Re-evaluating meeting dates. Well, we don't want to schedule and for tomorrow So our next regular meeting after that's April the 7th Okay But I guess my question is are we anticipating that? We will be back into a position where we think it is safe to resume meeting like I mean, we're just going to take this thing one day at a time
 I hope that we will be able to maintain business and keep your office running as smoothly as we can and if that means we need to get creative with meeting styles like we have with Council Member Petty then I would support that. Okay. And that may happen. We've got to check all that out and we will. But I just want to table these to the next council meeting. I plan on having a council meeting in two weeks.
 At this point in time. Yes Okay, three weeks I just wanted to say I think it's important that we table this until what is it? April 7th so that we can give the public plenty of opportunity and if we have to table it till later than that So that they have an opportunity to speak. I think that's very important that we should not rush this. Yes Rush things through
 Who was the second on that motion? Teresa. Okay. Any discussion? Any further discussion? Would you call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yeah. Scrockin'. Yes. Okay. Under new business, we're going to do the first one, which is C1, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize the repair of a recycling and trash collection truck by Shipley Motor Equipment Company for the amount of $42,352.80. Kip?
 Whereas the operator of unit 402, uh, 4024, a front load trash truck, noticed smoke coming from the truck during a normal route and the truck was sent to Shipley Motor Equipment Company for repairs.
 which led to the discovery of other significant internal damage, and whereas insurance funds have been received in the amount of $41,352.81, and the Recycling and Trash Collection Division has sufficient funds to pay the $1,000 deductible,
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances and make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the repair of the recycling and trash collection truck by Shipley Motor Company, Inc. for $42,352.81, with the amount of $1,000 to be paid by the City. All right.
 Well, I think it's a kiss reading of the ordinance was the proper explanation trash truck involved in a accident all the $1,000 of this is being paid by insurance. So this is to repair the trash truck and getting it back Online, okay. Go ahead any questions for Paul on that. We're good. We have any public comment on this Hey right back to the council. I
 Move we I will be for to go to the second reading Motion second to go to the second reading song in trees Okay, please call row bench. Yes, yes, man. Yes It's here. Yes Marsh. Yes, Eddie. Yeah Scroggins, yes
 an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize repair of a recycling and trash collection truck by shipley motor equipment company for the amount of 42 352 dollars and 81 cents okay treason i move we suspend the rules and go to the final reading second have the motion is second to go to the third and final reading
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the repair of recycling and trash collection truck by Shipley Motor Company, the equipment company, for the amount of $42,352.81. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay. Kara, would you please call her up? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. All right. Thank you all. I'm going to do C2, a resolution to award bid.
 Number 20-29 and authorized contract with cornerstone construction of Russellville incorporated any amount of 1 million six hundred and eighty nine thousand Seven hundred and eighty one dollars 20 cents for construction services associated with the highway 16 utility relocations project to approve a project contingency in the amount of one hundred and sixty eight thousand nine hundred seventy eight dollars and twelve Cents and to prove a budget adjustment Tim. Thank you mayor. I
 The Arkansas Department of Transportation has requested utility relocations to prepare for the widening of Highway 16 from South College Avenue to Huntsville Road. The relocations are 62.88% reimbursable to the city of Fayetteville by RDoC.
 On February 19, 2020, the City of Fayetteville accepted sealed competitive bids for the Highway 16 project. Cornerstone Construction of Russellville submitted the lowest bid of $1,689,781.02. This item was presented at the March 10th Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee meeting with a 4-0 decision to forward it to the Council for their consideration for approval. Okay.
 any questions or comments or from the council all right any public comment on this see none right back to the council will we i mean we take send this to for the second reading no we're all right we just need a motion to pass i move we pass this resolution second we have a motion in a second to pass a resolution any final comments from the council
 All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, I'm going to move us to one more, which is number seven.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of property located at 923 West Cato Springs Road from McGill and Juanita Cotterias for the amount of $92,000 to reduce future flood damage and restore flood capacity in the area to approve the project in Tennessee and the amount of $3,000 to cover all associated closing costs to approve.
 internal charges in the amount of $1,500 and to prove a budget adjustment 2019 drainage improvement bond project Chris yes thank you mayor this is a property that has a structure on it that's flooded multiple times during storm events
 The owner of the property is a willing seller and is accepted below appraised value for the structure. Actually, we accepted this or made this offer and it was accepted last year in December. So we really want to get this completed.
 The reason this is so important is we participate in FEMA's community rating system. This current rating that we have provides a 10% discount on most flood insurance policies, so it provides a savings to our citizens. We're working on continuing and improving that rating to get even higher discounts. One of the requirements of the community rating system is for the community to develop a plan to reduce the number of structures that flood.
 So sometimes we can do drainage improvements or other things, but in this case, the most feasible option is to purchase this property. The property is adjacent to property we already own, so we can pair that and have a really nice green space along Cato Springs Road and adjacent to Cato Springs Branch. So we're recommending approval. Okay. What questions do we have for Chris? Good. What public comment do we have?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Move we pass this resolution. Second. A motion and second to pass resolution. Any final comments on it? All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 all right thank you all now i would ask the council to table c3 c4 c5 c6 c8 and c9 for two weeks the next council sorry i said two times i moved the table to mention second of the next council meeting april 7th i second that all right any discussion on that
 All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay, thank you. All that concludes our business. I believe that we have some announcements. Susan, you have some announcements on some steps we're all beginning to take now that we've passed everything. Thank you, Mayor. Several items.
 And we have already brought the attention of our website and the different items that we're covering every day on the website. I'm not going to go through the different closures. You can assume that almost everything is. But what you can know is still open are the bulky waste drop-offs, springtime bulky waste drop-offs. But all of the different details about closures are on that website. And I just want to thank the communication team
 who has done a valiant effort, along with all the staff, but all the department heads. But communication team has worked tirelessly all weekend to get that word out, and I want to thank them.
 So one thing I also want to appreciate our HR director, Missy Cole, and senior managers for working on Friday on a new policy the mayor has approved for maintaining core and essential services through remote work options. And each department has been asked to develop a work plan. The mayor has approved the policy and each department.
 departmental work plan is coming to my inbox I will review that with the mayor and we will have approval as they come through. We had a few departments who are ready because they not only have the work they can do remotely but also are equipped to do so and that would be
 the communications team. Building services and development services has a plan. I'd like to ask Garner to address because they're going to start tomorrow. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Pulling up on the direction that the Mayor and Chief of Staff provided on Friday, we met this morning and we came up with an action plan.
 which we propose to implement in the morning. When we looked at engineering, planning, permitting, and inspection services, our first definitional challenge was to look at that. Is that an essential service? It's not an emergency. And the answer was no, it's not an essential service on a short term.
 But we don't have any timelines for this crisis. So it may go weeks, it may go a month, and we think when viewed in that sense, it is an essential service. So our plan assumes that it's an essential service. So what we plan to do in the morning is we plan to close the front office.
 from public access, we will be taking applications, permit applications, development review applications, all our applications through electronic submissions, and we have that process already in place. Many of our staff can work at home, and the division directors will be meeting with the candidates, likely candidates, for working at home.
 and working out an arrangement when they need to come into the office with an eye towards working at home whenever possible. Fortunately, we are a tech-savvy department with a few exceptions, and we can do most of our work remotely. We plan to reduce our face-to-face meetings. Again, we will have detailed instructions in the front lobby
 our customers can walk in and they can see who they need to contact and they can contact us by phone or by email and they can submit their applications. Finally, there were some meetings this week that have been canceled. TechPlat has been canceled. The agenda meeting for Planning Commission has been canceled, which was scheduled for Thursday afternoon at 4 30.
 Neither one of those actions will delay our customers. We will be providing all the review comments to our applicants that would have been transmitted to them through the tech plant meeting.
 And of course our Planning Commission won't have the opportunity to be as prepared as they would have been Monday. The issue of whether they meet Monday or how we meet Monday is still to be decided this week. Happy to answer any questions. Any questions for Garner? Thank you, Garner, very much.
 I'll also add that I have received submissions from our IT department and recycling and trash and sustainability. I just haven't had a chance to go over them with the mayor yet. It's my understanding at this time City Hall is still open and our utility customers will still be serviced at this time and subject to change. Do you all have any questions about the remote work policy in general? Sure.
 It's just enabling those who can at the manager's discretion to stay home and work. Can you describe what the policy is for folks who are not in a position where their job can be done remotely? Right. Well, the essential services, in fact,
 But that is better addressed by people who provide essential services. Tim, I'd like to ask you to help me with that one. So you all are used to our inclement weather policy and the field staff and the crews who actually have to maintain all of the different core functions of the city when it comes to keeping our water sewer operational, our transportation system running. Tim, could you describe some essential services that happen in your area? Certainly.
 For the utility, of course, our essential services are reading the water meters and doing construction with water leaks and port repairs on sewer. In this situation with core employees, we've identified three employees in our utility that we can have work from home, which would be the utilities engineer, the project coordinator, and the GIS technician.
 Actually, you know, you can't fix a water leak from the house. So we've got to pretty much bring everybody in. We've got plenty of work. What we're doing is practicing all the recommendations that have been given to us, not only by the CDC, but by the mayor himself as far as social distancing. And more than once a day, we are using staff to disinfect our vehicles and our operations center. And that's what that's what we're doing.
 The essential employees, I'll repeat, is the ones that have to go out and do the job out in the field and respond to customers. We're also asking our employees to keep distance away from the customers as well, at least a minimum of 10 feet. And hopefully this will be part of many things that we'll probably be doing in the near future until this pandemic sees its course. Thank you, Jeff. Any other questions for any other staff in the room?
 I have a quick question. You know, with all the schools being out, do we have anything in place to help parents that might have to take care of kids and, you know, something that would, you know, kind of impede their work abilities? We did talk about that in our manager's meeting, and there is a provision in our sick leave policy that –
 employees who are affected with their family members affected Will at the managers discretion again? we need to cover all our bases but there will be the option for those employees who do not have work who cannot log work because
 because they do not have work they can do at home to go into sick leave bank and other banks, with the addition that should it be necessary to carry even a negative balance in the bank. But that's all. Yeah, we're trying to figure out how to accommodate. But the policy currently allows the use of leave for families that are affected in this way. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 And then the utility cutoffs, there's not. Oh, thank you, Mayor. Yeah, the Mayor made the decision last week, actually, and we announced on Friday that water utility, we will not have cutoffs and late payments will not be accrued. We asked our other utility companies, and you all may have heard our broadband providers and our SWEPCO and Black Hills, they've all announced similar programs. So everybody's reaching out in concert about that.
 Would you like to say something about that? Sure. When we looked at this, what the Mayor and I immediately discussed, that people have to wash hands, they have to have water to do that. We will not do cut-offs. We will allow water to come. Once we're through this, we'll again call those dues and back payments will have to be made. But until we're through this, we're not going to cut anybody off, anybody's water supply off.
 I'm sorry did you have a I just wanted to thank the mayor and his staff for the leadership they've shown this week I'm really glad to see that we're not going to cut off water you know that may cause problems with finances but that's the decision that we need to make made some really good decisions in the last week to deal with this and I appreciate the mayor and staff on that thank you
 Also, I'd like Chief Harden to come up and give a report on the task force, regional task force we're involved with. I know there's a lot of reports here, but we've been working on a few things the last week or two, so I wanted you all to be up to speed on everything we are doing.
 I won't go over all my notes. We had a meeting today. I was very tickled with the turnout. We kept spacing like this. Well, maybe a little closer than this, but we spaced everybody out. We also monitored them wherever they came in. There were a lot of important people there. Let me bring up my notes. We have representatives there from, and I'll just go through each one of them.
 So the Rogers Fire Chief, he was the one that kind of organized. I mean, he was the catalyst that got it all going, got us all working together in a group. And so he introduced everybody, kind of got started. The moderator was John Luther, our emergency manager. Businesses, we had representatives there from different businesses, Tyson's, Walmart, and
 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce was representing all the chamber of commerce in the area. Had a good discussion there. I won't go into a lot of detail. We had the Department of Health on site. They discussed for both Washington County, Benton County, plus the regional director for all 14 counties. I think she said 14 counties, don't hold me to that. They are working on testing. A lot of questions were answered so we had health care facilities there. Washington Regional, Mercy,
 They answered questions specifically about testing that I know all of us had. Whenever Washington Regional, they've stood up a remote testing site offsite so they're not contaminating the patients and or the patients there at the hospital. So what they're doing is they come in and not everybody is tested. Your screen and if you don't meet the criteria and you can get the criteria, I believe they said it's on their website and I think that's on the ADH website as well.
 Anyway, they're scanned. If they meet the criteria that they go through, they are tested. If they are indeed tested, they're at that point supposed to be quarantined. And if the Arkansas Department of Health signs up on the testing of them needing to be tested, they have results within four hours. Very, very fast turnaround. If it goes through a commercial testing site, it takes 72 hours to get results from that. All of the healthcare facilities in the region, I guess the entire state for that matter, but we just had a spokesman here from our region.
 They just recently inventoried all of their facilities, got all of their medical supplies. So they have, they know what all of them have as well as the transport agencies. So they have a listing of that and I'm sure they're, you know, the state's working on what to do and what they need or what they will need.
 Let's see, Washington Rear Law.
 And anybody that comes in with a fever, they are put in there and they are monitored separately. They are also testing all of the inmates twice a day. And then they are, you know, if they come up, somebody has a fever, they get moved over and then they're separated from the rest of the inmates.
 Let's see, all of the fire agencies are doing basically the same thing because we've been communicating. We're naturally screening the calls. We're screening our personnel every single day. Whenever they come in, if they have greater than 100.4 temperature, they're sent home. If they have, plus we're asking them assorted questions. Some of the agencies are not allowing public into the fire stations whatsoever. Sure.
 nursing homes. One of the actions that we took, and in fact there was questions about that whenever we, in the first press release that the mayor put out, we're trying to limit contact. I mean the ones we clearly know from experience that the ones that are impacted the most are the elderly. So we and we respond to nursing homes on a regular basis. So one of our concerns was how do we deal with that? What do we, I mean how do we stop ourselves from contaminating or you know bringing, one of the
 The majority of the deaths at this point came from a nursing home in Washington and we do not want that here. So we coordinate, worked hard, put an effort, we put a letter together, worked regionally on this, reached out to all of the different extended care facilities and the nursing homes and asked, you know, if they could meet, if at all possible, to meet us at the door instead of us going into the facility. And most of it was, what I understand, was accepted pretty well by most.
 We discussed about the quarantine issue. If we end up with a situation where one of our personnel are indeed exposed, how they need, what are we going to do? Are we going to just send them home to their loved ones?
 or are we gonna do something for them? So we've come up with an option. We're working on getting one of our old recommit or decommissioned fire stations up and running. And so we do have a place if we end up in a situation where we have to quarantine them, we're gonna have a place to do that. And of course that'll be their option. We're not saying you're gonna go down there and stay, or we're gonna say you can do this or you're gonna need to stay home. So, but we wanna provide that where something like that to happen.
 We are concerned, of course, with the Washington saw up to a 40% reduction in workforce because of this. So that's very eerie and we're working on that. We're trying to figure out, come up with plans. You might see me riding a fire truck. I haven't done that in a long time, but I think our support staff will come in and we'll fill in and do what we have to, but we will continue to provide services. The school districts, this is touching.
 That kind of breaks my heart. They, a lot of the kids, it may be the only meal they get, so they are working to feed them. I thought that was precious. So, of course, the CDC recommendations that we just talked about, 50 people, the president just came out and during the meeting, they were saying 50 come out and said, no, this has been updated to 10, change that fast. And that's pretty much everything that I can tell you about that. I hope I wasn't too lengthy. I have not answered any questions. If somebody has a question. Yes, Trace.
 So I guess I didn't realize that there was a 40% reduction in workforce. You're talking about foreign police in Washington State? Yes, in Washington. They got hit hard whenever. Of course, we are, I would say, considerably more cautious than they were. I mean, that's where it hit first thing. Sure.
 so we're hoping that we don't see numbers such as that. So have you discussed the, uh, opportunity to call in retirees or other people that, um, maybe you're out of the workforce, but have experience. We actually had that very conversation. We're trying to work through that of what we would do, what the logistics would be. Um, I, I tasked and I haven't even had this morning. I,
 I haven't been back to the station. So this morning, I tasked them with that. I said, I want you to start exploring this, what the options are. What would it take if we had to do that? What would it work with our retirement? All those kind of questions. There's a bunch of them. Civil service. And I tasked them with that, but I don't have any idea what they come up with. So it is something we're looking at, and we will continue to provide fire services. The police will continue to provide police service. We will stay on top of it. So, yeah.
 Thank you. You bet. All right. Any other questions? All right. Thank you, Chief. Chief Fralick, do you want to brief the council on where you all are?
 Good evening, Council. The Police Department, we put out a public service announcement today on our Facebook page, social media, website as well. Just to reiterate, you know, public safety is our number one priority for our citizens, for our community. It always has been, it always will be. Some of the things that we're looking at is what can we do to be responsible and responsive to this pandemic? And so we've looked at some areas where we could increase our social distancing.
 So, if you saw the announcement that I put out, we're looking at expanding online reporting. We're also looking at expanding live reporting with a live report taker as well. And so in the past, it's always been our motto, customer service is very, very important to us. And so if a citizen, someone within our community wanted to see an officer, we would always send an officer.
 So we're going to have to change our business model a little bit and require that they either do some online reporting or do live reporting. Certainly we'll always be responsive to emergency situations. Anybody that has a 911 or some type of crime that's in progress will be there through this crisis.
 So we've looked at that. We're also looking at vetting callers, looking at vetting callers to determine whether or not they have some illnesses. Let our officers know they're responding to those types of calls, whether they need to have additional distancing with them. Also, I think Chief Harden mentioned calling callers out. So if it's a non-emergency call that we're responding to and the caller can come out of their residence, we'll try to do that so we can maintain that social distancing as well.
 We're also looking at some protective personal equipment as well. So we've put all of that equipment into the vehicles that's readily accessible for the officers. We also wanted the community to know that they may see some of our officers that are wearing N95 type masks, surgical type masks, gloves.
 Also, face shields or some type of goggles to protect their eyes, a wrap around. So something that we didn't want them to be alarmed with, something that you normally don't see an officer wearing and we're working security currently at the Washington Regional Medical Center test site. And so our officers are out there and we're going to work that with the Washington County Sheriff's Office as well so we don't fatigue our officers.
 Alternatives to arrest, you've heard the mayor talk about that many times. He mentioned that in the State of the City Address. We are always really cognizant and intentional to try to use alternatives to arrest. I think the mayor's mentioned from 14 years ago when we had our own jail, we were at like 10,000 arrests.
 Last year we were at 3,500. We continue to monitor that. So during this, we've really, really pushed and encouraged our officers to only make physical arrests where they're transporting individuals to the county jail for violent misdemeanors, things where individuals are intoxicated and they can't care for themselves and they can't find another person to care for them, and then felonies. I was in a conversation late this afternoon prior to this meeting with the Washington County Prosecutor, Matt Durant,
 And we're working on a plan where we could possibly felony cite people that we arrest for felonies. You talked about nonviolent felons earlier being in the county jail. So we've never had that opportunity to do that. And we're talking about him giving us a list of individuals that we encounter, let's say, for forgery where they're writing a check document.
 to one of our local stores or they're using someone's credit card, that might be a situation where they don't have a violent criminal history or an extensive criminal history and opportunity for us to just cite the individual out in the field and give them a court date similar to what we do with Class A misdemeanors. And you've heard us talk about the misdemeanor marijuana only issue that we've increased our citations on. This would be similar to that as well.
 Let's see, cancel community outreach. You know that the police department conducted over 200 community outreach events last year. So unfortunately it breaks my heart that we're going to have to cancel those for the next 30 days. But we're still dedicated to those. Once we get through this, we'll continue. But it's the smart thing to do.
 cancel ride-along programs and also cancel our tours at our facility as well. And sanitation is really important for us of our facilities, our vehicles and our equipment. Central EMS has been kind enough to, they've got a machine, basically a fogging machine that allows us to take all of our vehicles down to the county, to the,
 uh central ems and have those sanitized it takes about two to three minutes for that sanitation to to get out of the or to get out of the vehicle to where it's safe if you will uh for the officer to enter back into that vehicle so we're doing that on a daily basis we're also monitoring our officers as far as their health and safety goes as well today with the school resource officers being released from fable schools at least for the next week and a half
 That'll give us some room for some backfill. And one of the officers, a supervisor, I'll be able to assign as a public safety officer. And so with that supervisor, he'll be able to monitor the sanitation efforts of our facilities and our vehicles, but also monitor the health of the officers when they come on duty.
 At 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., we'll check their temperature right now. The county jail, as we mentioned, does not allow an individual to come into the jail, whether they're an officer or detainee, with a temperature of 100.4. So if an officer has a temperature of above 100, we're sending them home until they get well.
 So continually monitoring that situation and very dynamic, but I just want to reiterate that we are an essential service. We are 24-7 operation. I'm committed to doing that. Public safety is our number one priority, and whether or not you have COVID-19 or not, if you need us, the police department is going to be there. And with that, I'll take any questions. Any questions for the chief?
 I have kind of a hypothetical, maybe a real one, real soon. We just gave the mayor the authority to maybe prohibit gatherings based on the CDC recommendation. If people are not being responsible and you see a large gathering down on Dixon Street,
 Is there any plan to do a little bit of community outreach and say hey, you know you've kind of exceeded the limit Maybe you're putting people in danger or you're close to the limit I mean how I'm just wondering how the city would respond to something like that Well, certainly I think we're all in this together So it's not just a responsibility of the police department's Responsibility of our entire community and that's obviously an ordinance that you passed earlier by giving the mayor that authority I
 So, how we would particularly respond to that, we would certainly encourage those groups to disperse. Obviously, you run into some constitutional issues there when you're talking about First Amendments and gatherings and things like that. So, a very difficult situation. We just hope that everybody in the community understands and cooperates so we can all get through this. But we'll do our best to encourage at this point until we have the authority to enforce
 So you have a couple officers that are down there on Dixon Street, and I really don't mean to be picking on Dixon Street. It's just an example.
 So will they be looking at those kinds of things, actively looking and trying to encourage people to disperse? So we have four officers that are assigned to Dixon Street. We're committed to that. And some of the officers had had some concerns from some of the bar owners over the weekend about too many people being in those restaurants and bars. And so they encouraged those restaurant owners and those bar owners to abide by what the CDC regulations are.
 At this point until the mayor enforces any type of occupancy rates and that's something that the fire department usually enforces and will assist them with that. That's really all we have to go by as far as enforcement goes, but we can continue to encourage and monitor and report back to the mayor, which will help him make the decisions that he needs to make with y'all's authority. Any other questions? Thank you, Chief. Thank you.
 I want to give just a couple of thank yous before we leave here tonight. You know, I've had a team of very dedicated people that has made all this stuff happen. I want to thank, of course, always my chief of staff, Susan Norton, and her fantastic.
 Ms. Thurber sitting back there, the new communications director, she has done a fantastic job getting stuff out and keeping everybody informed. Thank you, Lisa. And I want to thank the two chiefs, Chief Reynolds and Harden, for all their hard work. We've been meeting every day, Saturdays and Sundays too, for the last week at least, Saturdays and Sundays. And we've been working on the plan for weeks
 two or three well probably three weeks now and so it's it's something that we so when this thing really began to as they say ratchet up we were ready to move into what we were going to do and i want to thank those folks i see assistant chief fields in in the back she's done a fantastic job she's been part of the people i've been counseling with every day i want to thank the city department
 Kid, I want to thank your office. Here, I thank you all. I want to thank your office and the work that you all did. The department heads have done a fantastic job. And then all the staff as whole. I mean, they really get it. They're really working for a solution to this problem. And certainly, again, I want to thank this council. As I said, together we'll get through this thing. So on we go ever forward. Ever forward.
 All right, I don't have anything else. Thank you all. Reject.