I'd like to call the City Council meeting for March 21st, 2017 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, tonight under our presentations and reports and discussion items, we have the Parks Recreation Advisory Board Annual Report presented by Chairman Richie Lamb is first on the agenda tonight. Hello, good evening. How are you? Thank you for allowing us to be on your agenda tonight. I've got a slideshow, and I'm not good at this, so if I'm looking back and forth, play along. So, yeah.
 This slide here shows, many of you will recognize that, it's Lake Wilson at sunrise, and there's a nice quote by Franklin Roosevelt there. The reason I wanted to show that is because I really like part of it, the last sentence there, which says, the parks stand as the outward symbol of the great human principle. And I'm not educated enough to speak on the great human principle part of it, but I like the part about...
 the Outward symbol. I feel like Fayetteville is known for our city parks. The parks are our Outward symbol, telling the world what our community is all about. I think that's reflected in the pride that our citizens have of our parks. You guys on the city council, you're talking to the public every day, and I think one of the first questions you generally ask, I know when I speak to most of you guys, is where do you live? What part of town do you live in?
 And I don't run into too many people anymore that give you their street address. They tell you what park they live next to. Nobody says they live on Township. They live over near Gully Park. So I just want to emphasize that to you. We don't come up here and speak to you guys that often. I know I haven't since I've been on the Parks Board. But that's kind of the way we see the parks. And so I just want to emphasize that to you while I've got the chance. So...
 Many of you know, some of you don't, our Parks and Recreation Advisory Board was created in 1967. This is our 50th year. Those are our members, including myself, Kyle McCann, J.L. Jennings, Wade Cowell, Dana Smith, Chuck Maxwell, Phillip McKnight, Bill Putman, and David Proffitt.
 The advisory board was created to advise and or recommend to the mayor and to all of you on the city council, also to our parks director and staff in all aspects of parks and recreation. One of those responsibilities that we have is to present the annual report, which we've chosen to do in person this year. The next shows our mission statement to meet the parks and recreational needs of all by providing a safe and diversified park system.
 that encourages community pride, visionary planning and operations, and environmental stewardship. Excuse me. I didn't want to bring it up because I didn't know if we're allowed to have drinks in this room, especially since it got remodeled. Anyway, so here's our parks overview. I'd like to point out that we do have 58.1 full-time employees, just over 3,700 acres of parkland, and that includes 69 parks.
 and 43 miles of shared use trails. We strive to provide something for everyone, including developed parks, natural areas, paved trails, natural surface trails, lakes, gardens, and excellent programs as well. And by providing a variety of these types of parks, we ensure we're meeting the citizens' needs of all abilities, ethnic groups, ages, and socioeconomic groups.
 Some benefits of the parks include environmental benefits. I believe parks protect and enhance water quality, mitigate climate change by helping to sequester carbon, improve air quality, and reduce urban heat island effects, which will help reduce energy consumption. In terms of social benefits, parks promote community engagement, community pride, and they make cities more livable, improve quality of life.
 and reduce crime. They provide people with a contact with nature that some people can't get if they didn't have access to a city park. Economic benefits include, well, studies show outdoor recreation contributes $730 billion to the economy annually, obviously that's nationally, and also that property values increase by living near a park or a trail. And then last but not least, obviously health benefits.
 Parks provide opportunities for physical activity, helping reduce obesity, and improving mental and physical health. And this point of view, I believe, is shared with most of our board. We view parks as part of the city infrastructure. You know, just as our water and sewer systems, just as our streets and our power grid. It's part of the city infrastructure. You know, the parks help...
 forested natural areas in our parks like Mount Kessler, Mount Sequoia, Lake Fayetteville, Lake Sequoia. They do serve a recreational purpose but also they're there to help infiltrate and slow water. Our vegetated areas shade and cool surfaces which reduces temperatures and slow water allowing it to filter through the ground. They also provide a place for our citizens to connect and that allows for a safer community.
 i don't want to compare us to law enforcement but there's more ways to go about it than than what we typically can think of in terms of your city plan 2030 goals i believe that the parks department has helped significantly in meeting some of those um number one your first one up there is we will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority priority and two we will discourage suburban sprawl well you know when we upgrade our facilities and we provide
 These opportunities, such as we've done in Wilson Park and Walker Parks, right in the heart of the city, we've helped to promote development in these areas. You know, not everybody has to have a half-acre lot, you know, to provide recreational opportunities for their family. Number three is we will make traditional town form the standard through the Parkland Dedication Ordinance. We seek to add parkland in areas that are not served, and that helps provide a complete neighborhood.
 Then number four we will grow a livable transportation network through trails through the street tree requirements through our urban forestry department We help to create a pedestrian friendly sidewalk and transportation network and lastly We will assemble enduring green network again with parkland acquisition. I believe that's a Significant contributor there. All right, so I'll brag about the staff a little bit. These are some of their accomplishments during 2016
 Phase one of Kessler Mountain Regional Park opened in August and throughout town we removed 3.7 acres of invasive plant species. We completed a master plan for Kessler Mountain Trails and received grant funding for construction. The Parks Department hosted 47,035 citizens in sports leagues, swimming pool, entry events and programs during 2016.
 We opened the Waxhawks disc golf course in Walker Park. We improved and provided monarch butterfly habitat by planting monarch waste stations and growing milkweed to give away to the public. We hosted a successful Fayetteville race series with over 2,700 participants and increased volunteer participation by over 30%. The estimated economic impact for Fayetteville is over $2 million.
 We opened up an equestrian trails at Lake Sequoia, and we did improvements at Lake Fayetteville, including the bike skills course, the Mohon Bird Blind, Eastside Trailhead Parking, all of which included assistance from grants and donations. Additionally, we opened Gordon Long Park Restroom.
 And on top of that, the staff had a successful year with not only the Gulley Park concerts, the Wilson Park Drive-In movies, the Tree Giveaway, and of course, the lots of the Ozarks. During the year, they received awards. Cityscapes Best of NWA Best Park, which is Wilson Park. We received the Tree City USA for 22 years now. The Kessler Mountain Regional Park was honored at the 2016 Construction and Developers Awards Ceremony.
 and the Arkansas Recreation and Parks Association Awards. We got four of those. Program of the Year for Natural Resources, which is the Parks Volunteer Program. Facility of the Year, Lake Fayetteville Bicycle Skills Park. The Volunteer Group of the Year, which was the AmeriCorps Earth 2 Team. And Festivals Over 10 Years category, which was Lights of the Ozarks. Projects that are underway right now, the Lake Fayetteville Boardwalk.
 which was funded in part with a recreation trails grant through the highway administration. Built with our in-house maintenance staff, this project should be completed in the next few weeks. Wilson Park parking improvements are underway now and will be wrapping up in April. And the playground construction will begin in April and is anticipated to be complete in June. This one is funded by a 50-50 matching grant from Arkansas Parks and Tourism.
 We will be starting construction of three and a half miles of new trails and repairing existing trails on Kessler Mountain Regional Park next month. This is funded in part by a 50-50 matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation. And staff is working on a master plan update for Walker Park that will include the construction of a splash pad towards the end of the year.
 The Rotary Playground at Kessler Mountain Park is currently out to bid and will be constructed this year. This is funded in part by a $150,000 donation by the Rotary Club of Fayetteville. We're adding new lighting at Bryce Davis Park, Bryce Davis Dog Park. And we started a new Youth Ultimate Frisbee League this year, and we're anxious to see how that's going to turn out.
 Also at Gregory Park, significant improvements over there. There's a bike skills course and three new bicycle trails going in. Volunteers with ORC have already started working on that. So that's what you should expect soon. Looking farther beyond that, I've identified two needs that I believe the staff agrees with. The biggest one I believe you already know is gonna be completion of the Kessler Mountain Regional Park
 There's additional baseball, softball, tennis, basketball, volleyball, and an amphitheater needed. And I believe the current estimate is about $20 million. So we've got plenty of work to do there. And the next biggest need that I see that we have right now is a new Parks and Recreation master plan. The staff is currently working off of a master plan that I believe is greater than 15 years old. Is that correct, Allison?
 It was done in 2001. So we've been out of that for roughly five years. And if you read that and you look at all the things that have made the parks great that we've been able to do over the past 15 years, a lot of them were at least inspired by that master plan. So I believe we need to update that to kind of set the vision for the Parks and Recreation
 for the next 10 years and to help us continue to make smart investments. That's really all I have. Here's a party sign for our 50-year anniversary. I'd like to invite each of y'all to come to our meetings if you like. We still meet on the first Monday of every month at 530. We're usually in room 326, and we'd love to see you there. Does anybody have any questions? I'm going to leave before you do.
 Well, thank you, Rich, for your work and the work of the board. Thank you. You all do some tremendous work, and I want to thank you very much for that.
 Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is Mark. I believe you have the nominating committee report. Yes, I do Once again, we had over a hundred applicants for openings on City committees, we're always pleased at the Broad number of applicants and the skill sets that are brought forward. It's a very tough job
 decision that we have to make to come up with a slate to nominate for these committees. Anyone that wasn't selected at this time, I certainly want to encourage them to apply again because there's always the need for people to be involved. There's no other city that I know of that has more community engagement than the city of Fayetteville.
 So tonight I'd like to submit the following nominees for commissions, boards, and committees. The mayor recommends the following appointment for the library board. Brett Park, one term, ending 4-1-22. And Bren Bagwell, one term, ending 4-1-22.
 The Historic District Commission, Theresa Turk, won an unexpired term ending 6-30-18. The nominating committee brings forward for the Animal Services Advisory Board, Cat Donnelly, one unexpired term ending 6-30-18, and Nicole Maria Pratt, one professional term expiring 6-30-19.
 For the Audit Committee, Charles Leffler, one unexpired term ending 12-31-19. Civil Service Commission, Warren McDonald, one term ending 3-31-23. And Warren Peebles, one term ending 3-31-23.
 The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, Sarah Baker, one term, ending 3-31-22. And John Dupree, one term, ending 3-31-22. And for the Planning Commission, Matthew Johnson, one term, ending 3-31-20.
 Sarah Niederman, one term, ending 3-31-20. And Robert Sloan-Skroggen, one term, ending 3-31-20. And I submit these to the City Council for approval. I'll entertain a motion to approve the appointees. So moved. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the appointees by nominating committee.
 Saundra would you please call the roll yes yes yes abstain yes yes yes okay
 Under the agenda additions, I believe, Mark, you have an ordinance change on Animal Services Board. That's right. Do I need to read that, kid? Well, there needs to be a motion to suspend the rules and place this on the agenda. I move that we suspend the rules to place on the agenda an ordinance change
 Okay, Sarah. Second. I gave a motion and a second to add the ordinance change to the Animal Services Advisory Board on the agenda. Any discussion on that? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Witter? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Okay, and then mayor if you'd read the title and I'll read the box an ordinance to enact article 29 animal services advisory board in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the federal code
 Whereas the Animal Services Advisory Board was first created by resolution number 81-09 on April 7th of 2009, and later amended by resolutions number 2000-12 and 128-13, but the current provisions have never been codified. Whereas the City Council should have some flexibility with respect to the position,
 currently required to be filled by a licensed veterinarian to select another appropriately qualified person with veterinary experience when a licensed veterinarian has not applied.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw, Section 1, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw hereby repeals Resolutions Number 81-09, 200-12, and 128-13. Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw hereby annex Article 29, Animal Services Advisory Board into Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities as shown below.
 Section 33.420 purpose the Animal Services Advisory Board shall act in advisory capacity to the Animal Services Superintendent the mayor and the City Council on all policy matters pertaining to Animal Services division activities and Work to stimulate and encourage communication with all members of the community to ensure that the program's goals and objectives of the Animal Services program are consistent with community needs and desires and
 Section 33.421 composition and terms the animal services advisory board shall consist of eight members Consisting of the following a one City Council member be one licensed veterinarian However, if no licensed veterinarian applies for the position the City Council may appoint another qualified veterinary professional subsection C one owner operator or employee of a business related to the production sale distribution or care of animals or livestock and
 Subsection D, five residents of the City of Fayetteville who need have any other affiliation, membership or association. The City Council members shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve until replaced. All other members shall serve for a term of three years. Appointments shall be staggered. Members of the Animal Service Advisory Board serving at the time of the adoption of this ordinance shall continue to serve their term or shortened term without needing to be reappointed by the nominating committee due to enactment of this ordinance.
 Section 33.422 conduct of meetings the Animal Service Advisory Board may promulgate rules helpful for the conduct of committee meetings and other business section for 33.423 Through 429 is reserved and section 3 at the City Council the city of Hale-Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay and
 So the City Council is able to appoint a qualified veterinary professional to this board, which is necessary for the health and safety of Fayetteville citizens. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares that an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Mark, you want to start us off? Well, as mentioned, this was in a resolution, but it was never in an ordinance. We've held open the veterinary position job for several years now, but we've had qualified professionals in the profession say,
 that could serve in the capacity to represent veterinary medicine. So this actually brings this into code, and the nominating committee wanted to bring this forward. So I move we accept this resolution as published. Is the resolution or an ordinance changed? Well, it's an ordinance, and we need to move to the second reading. Move to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. John.
 mr i'd like to just have a little discussion about this before we go on to the second reading we will okay uh you want to talk about now you want to wait till after the vote uh let's talk about it do we have to go ahead with the vote first kid i think you don't have to you can go ahead and go ahead john well there was probably a reason for having someone licensed as a veterinarian to fill the position and now we're mitigating we're stepping down saying well just someone veterinary
 I mean, there's a big difference between a licensed veterinarian and someone who has worked for a veterinarian who's not licensed, who hasn't gone through the training. What is the purpose of the veterinary professional? Are we not kind of moving away from that? And maybe we can. Maybe there's not really a real true need for a professional that's licensed. But I just want to talk about that and see how you all feel. Okay. Alan? Yes.
 That's a good question. I chaired that board for many years actually. That's how I became involved in city government. After Dr. Charlie Blomberg resigned from the Animal Services Board, there was no one that was willing to apply that was a veterinarian due to the amount of time. Dr. Blomberg being a veterinarian in the community who was not a practicing physician in animal care,
 actually worked in a different industry and so was able to give his time after hours, whereas many veterinarians are not. Dr. Blomberg also worked in our animal services division as a fill-in veterinarian. So he was in a special situation to where he could give that time, but I think that it is important that if we can fill that job with someone who is from that practice area
 it can bring that extra perspective to the board because after all that is what the board is there for is to give us advice from many various different perspectives. So in my opinion this is a wise move and I'll be supporting it but I just wanted to offer you that as some background. Okay. Sarah Bunch. Oh.
 In relation to what Mark and Alan both brought up, it's been how many years, Mark, since this position has been filled? Three, maybe. And did you ever have any trouble filling it before? We've only had one person. We've only had one person, okay. And so that's, rather than keeping a position open from this profession, and we have had applicants in the profession, this is going to offer...
 the opportunity to bring someone from the professional community in because we have had applicants in the past and we do again
 Okay, thank you. I did speak with one veterinarian about the possibility, I encouraged him to apply for this position and he said exactly what you said. I work all day and I have after hours and I just don't think I have the time to do that. So I think this is a good move. Thank you. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 so much so much okay it's there just have to build all right yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to enact Article 29, Animal Services Advisory Board, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville Code, and to declare an emergency. Is there any public comment on this? If none, I'll bring it back to the Council. All right. Allen? Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Mark? Aye.
 second that we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to enact article 29 animal services advisory board in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the fable code and to declare an emergency mark okay is there any final comments from the council all
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hingham. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Now, Kit, we're going to have to have a motion and a second on the emergency clause. That's correct, Mayor. Okay. Sarah. Marsh. Okay. I move we pass the emergency clause. Yes. Okay. I've got John. John.
 Hang on, let me get the traffic directed here. John, you're right. Thank you, Mayor. Please explain to me what the emergency is. We've been this way for three years. All of a sudden it's an emergency? Somebody explain that. Kit? Yeah.
 I will actually ask the committee that requested us to put an emergency clause on to explain why you want the emergency. Okay. Mark, you want to take that one on? We have applicants currently waiting to fill the position, and this will allow that person. This committee does not meet monthly. It meets quarterly.
 I think six times or four times a year. And so this will allow the current applicant and nominee to step into the role, be trained, and attend the next meeting of the Animal Services Committee. Okay. Council Member Marsh, did you have something else? I was just going to echo what Mark said. Back to Alan now. Second. Okay, we have, who's the, okay, Sarah's the, okay, we have, nope.
 What do we got here? We have a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause, which does require a two-thirds. I'm trying to follow the screen here. Alan, you're doing the motion. No, Sarah did. I did the motion. All right. Sarah, you got the motion, and Alan, you're the second. All right. Cool. All right. Any final comments on that? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kingman. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latere. No. Yes. Grimes.
 Yes, yes, the emergency clause does pass Okay, next order businesses the consent agenda number one approval of the March 7th 2017 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution authorized the purchase of office furniture on an as-needed basis from various vendors and for varying unit prices utilizing state procurement contract sp13 dash-02 30 are
 through December 31st, or that should be separated, or through December 31st, 2017, and contract SP-14-0094 through March 19th, 2019, and any future renewal periods of these contracts. Number three, a resolution authorized for...
 A contract with Verizon Wireless pursuant to a State of Arkansas and Western States contract and alliance contract for the purchase of wireless communication services and to authorize the city's enrollment in the Verizon Wireless Enterprise Messaging Access Gateway service. Number 4, a resolution to approve a contract with Grant Thornton LLP in the amount of $95,500 to provide independent other services to the City of Fed. Number 5,
 A resolution to award bid number 17-27 and approve a contract with Wheeler Lumber LLC for the purchase of two prefabricated bridges for installation on the Cato Springs Trail in the amount of $126,050 plus applicable sales taxes and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing hazmat services revenue received by the fire department from Washington County in the amount of $11,319 and increasing the related expense budget. Number seven, a resolution to approve a change of order to the out of scope agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $50,000 to continue work on a new sustainability analysis for the White River
 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000 and approve budget adjustment. Number eight, resolution to approve a contract with a Mentis corporation in the amount of $7,500, expanding the existing scope of services to include and upgrade to the city's utility billing system. Number nine, resolution to approve changeholder number four, contract with JBZ Incorporated, DBA,
 Ellingson contracting in the amount of $87,541 for renovations to the senior centers, HVAC ducting and construction of a new drink bar and parking lot and to approve an additional project contingency in the amount of $13,000.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation Incorporated for the airport hanger at 4230 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $1,350 per month. And number 11, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation Incorporated for the airport hanger at 4248 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $3,000 per month. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark.
 I move we accept the consent agenda read I especially think it's important to get that bar down at the senior center Absolutely Yes, I know you noticed that too Sarah We have a Agenda is red. Would you please call the roll? Yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, on the unfinished business, we have none. At this time, I want to open up a public hearing. We will open it under C-1, a resolution to approve the sale and transfer of certificate of public convenience and necessity to Green Cab Taxi Company. Jamie. Jamie.
 Good evening Mayor Jordan, City Council Members. I'm Captain Jamie Fields representing Chief Greg Tabor in your Fayetteville Police Department. Chief Tabor couldn't be here this evening. I'm here to request a public hearing on behalf of two taxi cab companies who have recently sold and are now under new ownership. The first of which is Green Cab Taxi Company and in compliance with City Ordinance 117.32 that requires a public hearing for certificate.
 Do we have a representative? Is the applicant here? We have a representative. You should be able to answer your question. Good afternoon. Would you introduce yourself? My name is Anthony McBride. My address is 1200 Kensington Drive in Centerton, Arkansas. Okay. Do you have anything you want to address the council on other than just? No, sir. Okay. What questions do we have, council? Okay. I will open it up for the public. Anyone in the public like to address us on this?
 Okay, seeing none I will bring it back to the council. I guess we will close the user Conversation Alan motion to pass the resolution and mark I'll second that we have a motion to second to pass the resolution Any final comments from the council? Yes, sir Yes, I am yes, sir. Oh, thank you Right now we have about
 Total vehicles we operate all over northwest Arkansas. We're about 15 vehicles that currently right now. We're operating three to four in Fayetteville Right now we don't do that, but I'm sure if if that's what everybody would like we could do that for you. Yes, sir Thank you. Okay anything else in the council?
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Batch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. OK, number two, I'd like to open another public hearing, a resolution to transfer a certificate of public convenience and necessity from Destiny Limousines LLC to Ambassador Transportation Services LLC for the operation of three to six taxi cabs in the city of .
 Yes, sir. This request is for a public hearing on behalf of Ambassador Taxi Company and new owner Billy Detheridge. The applicant here? Nope. Okay. All right. What's the wishes of the council? Any questions from the council? Mark? I move we move forward and accept this. Okay. Do we have a second? Sarah? Second. Is there any public comment on this? Yes, please. Come up.
 Excuse me, how are you doing this evening? I was looking over the agenda earlier and listed as an LLC. I happened to do a quick search on the Secretary of State website. That LLC is not owned by Billy Detheridge. That LLC is owned by another individual. So Ambassador Transportation Services LLC is not a name that he can legally operate under. Sir, will you please introduce yourself for the record? Oh, I'm sorry. My name is William Threat, ma'am.
 Okay, so what have we got here? Hang on. What have we got, Kit? Well, on a transfer of certificate, the code does say that it requires the consent of the city council for the sale, assignment, or transfer of the existing certificate of public convenience and necessity. So it's really just up to the city council about whether or not they want to agree to this transfer or not, whether this new information makes any difference to you or not. That's just up for you to decide. Okay. I believe we have Mark and then Alan.
 Hold on, Alan, now we have you. I just had a question. Yes, sir. Do you work for one of those two cab companies? No, sir, I don't. Do you work for a different cab company? Yes, sir, I do. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay, now we have a motion and a second. Does anybody want to withdraw their motion or anything due to the new information we've received? Okay, Matthew. Yes, so I actually don't think you can look up the owners of LLC.
 LLCs in Arkansas, I'm pretty sure that information is protected. What you can look up though is the registered agent on the Arkansas Secretary of State's website. The registered agent could be usually the attorney for an LLC. So without more information, I don't see how we could believe that the LLC didn't belong to who they claim on the application. Okay. Any other comments?
 All right, we have a motion and a second. No final comments. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Vivian? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Rottier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. All right, thank you all. Under new business number one, an ordinance to waive the requirements to form a competitive bidding approved contract with T2 Systems Canada Incorporated through December 31, 2017 with automatic renewals for
 up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of software and services required for the city's parking pay stations, any amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Kit.
 Whereas the City has purchased parking pay stations and related services including payment processing, reporting, software, and software maintenance from T2 Systems Canada Inc., formerly Digital Payment Technologies, for each of its parking pay stations since 2009. And whereas T2 is the sole source provider for these proprietary services as well as the pay station equipment and the software provided by T2,
 is the only software that will work with the city's existing equipment. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract with T2 Systems Canada, Inc. through December 31, 2017 with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of the parking pay station services in the amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Okay. Justin.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council, Justin Clay, parking manager. So this proposed ordinance is an agreement for software services related to the parking pay stations found in the entertainment district. The services included are
 The back of house reporting capabilities, the ability to generate customized reports on pay station activity, the ability to process credit card payments at the pay station, troubleshooting software upgrade capabilities, those are the type of services included in this agreement. These are proprietary services. This is the only software that will work with these pay stations.
 And this service has actually been in use for a number of years. We have 32 pay stations that this would affect at $100 per month.
 in preparing our 2017 payment process, we discovered that we did not have a formal agreement with the company or council authorization for the agreement and so we're here today to hopefully remedy that. Be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? Okay, what public comment do we have? And now I'll bring it back to the council. What's wishes to council?
 motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading Sarah second we have a motion is second to go to the second reading Sondra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with T2 Systems Canada, Inc. through December 31, 2017 with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms, for the continued use of software and services required for the city's parking pay stations in the amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Adelaide.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kingin? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Banch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with T2 Systems Canada Incorporated through December 31st of 2017 with automatic renewals for up to three additional one-year terms for the continued use of software and services required for the city's parking pay stations in the amount of $100 per pay station per month plus applicable taxes. Okay. Do we have any final comments from the council on this? All right. Seeing none. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN seventeen dash fifty seven fourteen for approximately point five oh acres located at five fifteen East Township Street from RSF four residential single family, four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 Residential Single-Family Four Units Per Acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville To reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 and good evening mayor and City Council I'm Andrew Garner city planning director. This property is about a half acre It is on the south side of Township Street you can see it's just to the east of the come-and-go gas station and
 This is an outlot that is right on Township Street. It was not a part of the Summit Place subdivision, which is directly behind it. So it's zoned RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre. I believe there was a house on it at one time that has since been removed. The applicant proposes to rezone the property to NC neighborhood conservation. That's still a single-family zoning district, but it would allow it to be split and more homes built on it than you could do under the RSF4 zoning.
 Our land use plan shows this as a residential neighborhood area, and we recommend in favor of the request finding that would be compatible with the surrounding homes. And the Planning Commission discussed this item at their last meeting and recommended unanimously in favor of the request. Is the applicant here? Good evening. I'm Blake Jorgensen, Jorgensen Associates. No public comment on this one.
 Did want to back up and commend the Parks Department for all they've done. Had a great weekend out there. I know there wasn't public comment on it, and it's reaching to go back, but I did want to echo my applause for them. So anything on this project, I'll try to answer for you all. So thanks a lot. Okay. Do we have any questions from the City Council? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the City Council. What's the wishes of the Council? Nadella. Okay.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sarah? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Letcher? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 17-5714 for approximately half acre located at 515 east township street from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation alan motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading adela second then we have a motion to second to go to the third final reading
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes an ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-57 14 for approximately half an acre Located at 515 East Township Street from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation Is there any final comments from the City Council? Okay, I
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Higgins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Batch. Yes. O'Chair. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okie dokie. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Anyone? Staff have any announcements? Mayor, I have a few announcements. Those of you who have been involved
 enjoying or interested in the tactical urbanism project that was the roundabout that was at the intersection of school and spring, that has now been removed and we've got the four-way stop signs back. Staff did several observations. We'll be delivering the results of the observations in the citizen survey next week. So just wanted you all to know and the citizens to know that that is now a four-way stop intersection again.
 There will be meetings held by the city staff to update floodplain maps. Tuesday, drop-in meetings, Tuesday, March 28th from 1030 a.m. to 130 p.m. and from 4 to 7 p.m. at City Hall. We will have beginning, well actually for the last several days and until April 7th, Gregg Avenue road closure for sidewalk construction near Dixon Street close on Gregg Avenue.
 We have issued our fireworks notification for the Razorback baseball games that they will continue to have. And that is all we have right now. Thanks. Okay. Any other announcements? Yeah, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to report that after victories at the circuit court level,
 Twice at the Court of Appeals finally the Supreme Court has ruled in our favor again that we did everything properly when we deeded the City Hospital land to Washington Regional and
 So, I think that is the final victory. They can ask for rehearing, but I don't think that would work. And so it looks like now the citizens who voted for the millage are going to have their desires fulfilled and the library will be able to purchase this land from the hospital and then expand upon the land that adjoins the hospital, I mean adjoins the library.
 It took a long time and longer than we liked but we finally did end up at the right place So I just want to report that to the City Council Yes, John It is springtime and I just like to tell everyone who believes that life begins its conception that we're having a prayer vigil in front Of Planned Parenthood on 265 from 6 a.m. To 6 p.m If you'd like to come and join us peacefully and pray you're very welcome to thank you. All right. Thanks John anyone else?
 Okay, thank you all. Good work, council. We're adjourned.