I'm going to call to order the city council meeting for March 21st, 2023. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Cerna? Here. Bunch? Here. Kirk? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. You join me in the pledge of allegiance.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the nominating committee report. Sonia, you have that? I do. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Okay, so we met last Thursday, Wednesday, for a very long meeting, from 2 to almost 10 o'clock at night. We met lots of very wonderful, qualified people, but we did make this list of recommendations. For the Black Heritage Preservation Commission, we recommend Veronica Huff for one expired member at large term ending 12-31-25.
 Wendell Huggins for one unexpired member at large term ending 12-31-25. For the Civil Service Commission, Stanley Adelman, one citizen at large term ending 3-31-29. And Warren McDonald for one citizen at large term ending 3-31-29.
 For the Community Development and Assistant Programs Advisory Board, we have Natasha Coleman for one resident at large term ending 12-31-26. And one vacant position was left open for the member involved in housing services term ending 12-31-26. The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals has been left as vacant, one member at large term ending 3-31-28.
 The Energy Improvement District, number one, vacant. One expired term ending 12-31-24. On those last two, we didn't have any applicants. So we encourage you to apply if you have ever thought of being on a board of commission. For the Fayetteville Arts Council, we had one expired working artist term ending 6-30-23 and recommending Taylor Johnson. For the Fayetteville Public Library, Sally Overby, one public at large, one...
 at-large, let's see, term ending 4-1-28, and Brett Parks, one public at-large, term ending 4-1-28. Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, Deborah Humphrey, one unexpired resident representative term ending 12-28-23, and one position that's left is vacant, one unexpired public at-large term ending 12-28-26. The Planning Commission,
 We're recommending Jim Garluck, one citizen at large term, ending $331.26. Fred Gulley and Brad Payne for all the same, $331.26. The Public Facilities Board, Marlee Stark, one in expired public at large term, ending $1231.27.
 The Urban Forestry Advisory Board has been left vacant. There were no applicants. The Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Brandon Gibbons, won an expired University of Arkansas student living off-campus term ending 9-30-23. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to, if there's no other comments, I would like to make a motion to approve the
 or to support this recommendation. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominations. I would like to ask the city council if they would like to take any public comment for these nominations, and if we've never done that in the past, I don't know if it's something that we would consider to do. Generally, no public comment has been requested or given on that. This is just a decision by the city council. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Kent.
 Yeah, I told Sonja I could not remember a time that we did. So if you wanted to, I... I'm good to do. If that's something that we haven't done or don't do, then I'm okay with that. I don't remember ever doing that. I do remember sometimes there had been discussion amongst the council members, but that was it. Yes, there's been some lively discussions sometimes amongst the council members. So is there anything you wanted to bring? Everybody good? Yes.
 All right. So we have a motion and a second to accept the nominating committee's nominations for the city committees. Any discussion? All right. Care which police call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Arby? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Okay, thank you all. The next order of business is consent.
 Number one, approval of the March 7, 2023 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in a total amount of $101,992 to transfer a tree escrow balance for the planting of mitigation trees in various locations throughout the City of Fiddle.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of street sweeper broom from GW Van Keppel Company for the amount of $66,877 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract. Number four, a resolution to approve...
 The purchase of five Ford vehicles from Lewis Ford Federal in total amount of $191,058 pursuant to a state procurement contract and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, resolution to award bid number 23-18 and approve a one-year contract with Petroleum Trailers Corporation for bulk fuel purchases with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms.
 Number six, resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $22,126 representing donation revenue from friends of the YRCC to fund the 2023 programs offered at the Yvonne Richardson Community Center. Number seven, a resolution to award RFP 22-11 and authorize a one-year contract with Ray Klein Corporate DBA Professional Credit Service
 for account collection services with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number eight, resolution to approve three-year lease agreement with Servco Restoration and Construction LLC for office space and the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $1,000 per month. Number nine, a resolution to approve Amendment Number Three to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement
 with hawkins ware engineers incorporated any amount of 80 660 for additional services associated with the project to alleviate flooding near the north college avenue and east sunbridge drive intersection and to approve budget adjustment this is a 2019 drains bond project number 10.
 a resolution to authorize the construction manager at-risk services contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors, Corp., in the amount not to exceed $38,950 pursuant to RFQ 23-02 for the Lake Federal Softball Improvement Project.
 Number 11, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2023 Justice Assistance Grant awards any amount of $124,499 to provide funding for the fourth judicial...
 District Drug Task Force. Number 12, a resolution to approve a 10-year lease agreement with the Federal Advertising and Promotion Commission for the town center and town center parking deck. Number 13, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with Titan Lawn and Landscape LLC
 an additional amount not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars to provide trash and removal services for unsanctioned campsites on city property along the trail system and adjacent properties as needed and to approve budget just entertain a motion except consent agenda So moved second of a motion the second to say except the consent agenda is read care which please call the roll Hertzberg yes RV. Yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning...
 Petition RZN 23-002, located southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Elm Street in Ward 2, for approximately 1.71 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI 12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre, and RIU intermediate urban. Now this was left on the first reading.
 And I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RCN 23-2, located southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Elm Street in Ward 2 for approximately 1.71 acres, from RSF4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RI12 residential intermediate, 12 units per acre, and RIU residential intermediate urban. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. So an update on this. As a reminder, the request is to basically split zone the property between RIU on the north kind of west portion of the site and then to RI12 on the sort of southeast portion of the site.
 Staff did host a council tour on Friday afternoon. A few items of discussion at that tour involved drainage, the slope of the site and how the site would be accessed.
 Also, in the interim, the applicant did submit a bill of assurance on this property. That bill of assurance, I believe you all received a copy of this afternoon, but the request is to limit the type of development on a portion of the site to only single-family detached housing as outlined in the cluster housing development ordinance.
 So I wanted to make sure that the council was aware of that. As far as some of the slope and drainage concerns, I did forward along some of these maps to council this afternoon as well, but the site does slope.
 The highest portion of the site is sort of in the southeast corner, and it kind of all drains to the northwest. There is a small stream that's located approximately here in the lowest portion, and some of that does help the property to the east drain more.
 in that direction as well as far as access some of that was discussed as well city development ordinances do typically require access to be from the lower classification street in this instance that would be elm street there could potentially be the need for an access management variance at some point when development does occur on this property given the separation distance between where the curb cut would need to be located um
 on ELM and whether access would actually need to happen on the higher classification street. Those are details that would be established and identified during an ultimate development of this project.
 With that, there was some public comment on the item, most in opposition to the request. Most of the concerns were regarding the tree removal and degradation of wildlife, exacerbation of dangerous traffic conditions, the increased density of...
 and that no assurance that any of this housing would be affordable. There were members of the public who did speak at the February 13th Planning Commission meeting, and there were members of the public who were present at the tour on Friday as well. I'm happy to answer any additional questions you might have. Thank you.
 Do you have the applicant? Oh, yes. We do have an applicant present. We have Brian Teague and Tim Bryzell from the applicant's team. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I'm representing the property owner and developer, Tim Brazel, who is also here with us this evening. I have a presentation that I would like to give this evening. If Jesse wouldn't mind pulling that up for me. But just real quick, while she does that, I wanted to...
 kind of hit the high points of some of the things we tried to communicate at the last meeting this this proposal is compatible with surrounding properties the zoning attached to those those properties there's commercial and industrial zoning to the
 to the north and to the west of this property. There's multifamily immediately to the west and to the southwest. And so this proposal acts as a bit of a transition from the more intense zoning west of the property to the less intense RSF4 zoning that's east of the property. If you compare, you know, development proposals under the current zoning,
 And with the development proposals,
 With the proposed zoning, I think you would not find any measurable traffic impact because of the size of the property is 1.7 acres. And Gregg Avenue is one of the busier north-south corridors in Fayetteville. We are in accordance with the city plan. This is a good infill site.
 There are many walkable destinations within five to ten minutes of the property. I think a grocery store is the only thing that it's missing. And with staff's recommendations and planning commission's recommendations for approval, I think that kind of, you know, that gives their blessing on the fact that I think this proposal is in line with city plan.
 The last two weeks we've had a lot of communications with the neighbors and that's what the rest of this presentation is about. We put together a presentation of precedent images of what
 intent is for building on the property That that we showed the neighbors and I'd like to show it to the City Council if you don't mind as well But Jesse, let's just go through these about two seconds a slide and try to get through it really quick But this is housing it will have been it's single-family 1.5 story It's very modest. It's about a thousand square feet to 1,600 square feet to two to three bedroom
 This is parking court precedent. Anywhere we park cars, we want it to look like a courtyard and not a parking court, or not a parking lot. Sorry. And with each of these houses, there will be private courtyards, patio spaces that might look something like this. And then the next few slides are just...
 precedent images for what the space between the front of the buildings might look like. Front porches with pedestrian pathways that would be mostly public, just for passive use really, or for anybody. We've got common open space precedent, green space,
 pocket park precedent and then bocce court precedent. This is our three plex, three dwelling unit precedent that we built over on Washington and that's really what we would like to do face out onto Gregg. It looks like a single family house, 1.5 story. So with that, we sent that out of a couple of years ago.
 probably a week ago, and we met with the neighbors last night. Thanks to Mitchell and Lainey who allowed us to meet in their backyard. It was a little bit chilly, but we had a really good meeting. I think a dozen or so neighbors came out. We had a pretty positive conversation. I'll let the neighbors correct me if I'm wrong, but I think generally they seem supportive of what we want to do here.
 We talked about a lot of different things. We talked about drainage, how we will deal with drainage, with development. We talked about the drainage criteria manual, the requirement for any new impervious surface to be treated with water quality measures, the requirement that we don't have any negative impact downstream.
 I think it's also important to point out this property is very similar to the Willow Bend property in that it's low lying, it has a drainage swale that goes through the middle of it. I was able to, in 2016, we used the, at the time the drainage criteria manual was new, so we were able to implement all of those water quality features, they've all been built,
 and they are all functioning properly. So I think we have experience dealing with the drainage that's very similar to this property. We discussed access to Gregg, vehicular access onto Gregg, and then a connection to the Dutton Place subdivision to the east. I think everybody was generally in agreement that that would be best.
 We talked about the differences between the current zoning and proposed zoning. We kind of got into the economics, if you will, of RSF4 zoning and what you will typically get with RSF4 zoning is a larger, more expensive home. Typically like the Dutton Place subdivision, you know, they're building 3,500 square feet, five to six bedrooms.
 And we talked about the idea of what if instead of that, if we could build two houses, 1,700 square feet, three bedrooms, or even three houses, 1,200 square feet, two bedrooms, instead of one large 3,500 square foot home. It's going to be much more affordable. This zoning proposal would give us the tools that we need to do that.
 I think last, what it really came down to, the conversation with the neighbors last night was we like what, I think the neighbors like what we were bringing forward, but we couldn't quite get our heads wrapped around on their concerns with, you know, what if the rezone was to be approved and then Tim sells the property to somebody else.
 We don't have any intent to sell. Our intent is to develop the property per this zoning. And that led us to...
 Tim and I talking last night and this morning we decided to write up a bill of assurance to try to alleviate as much of that concern as possible and so what that bill of assurance is that we would like to present to you tonight
 is we would restrict the use on the overwhelming majority of the property, 1.3 acres to the east and the south, to single family use. We would, on that same 1.3 acres, we would restrict the building height to two story, and that would leave us about a half an acre
 with our frontage along Gregg to build those three plexes that I showed you. So we hope, you know, I know it's probably not going to meet all concerns, but we, we were, our hope is that that will take us a long ways down the road and we would
 I hope that you would accept that proposal and approve the rezoning. With that, I'll turn it back to you, Mayor. I'd be happy to answer any questions or discuss anything further. I think we need to discuss...
 Bill of Assurance kit you do this up today was yeah Yes, we did receive this today and it's been mailed out to all the council I also left in their copy of it there for you And we also of course in order to accept the bill of assurance we need to amend the current ordinance that's before you I've left a copy of the proposed amendment that would in fact make this rezoning subject to the bill of assurance and
 And so we would need a motion to amend to the revised ordinance that I have provided for you tonight. So we would need to amend to add the bill of assurance to the rezoning of the property. That's correct. All right.
 Yeah, well we got no we need a motion in a second here. We all start discussing I'd like to make a motion we add the bill of assurance To add is there any discussion amongst the council on this I
 I guess I would like to ask a clarifying question before we vote on this. So I'm reading this as that it's also per the Cluster Housing Development Ordinance. Jesse, could you explain that just a little bit?
 Sure. The Unified Development Code allows a specific type of development called cluster housing, which allows for multiple homes to essentially be built on one parent tract or legal lot of record that don't necessarily have the
 the required amount of street frontage that would typically be required. So the idea is that you have multiple homes kind of clustered around one another and kind of clustered around some common open space and trail access and that kind of thing. So it's a it's an allowance in our code. It's a buy-write allowance in both of these zoning districts to build cluster housing.
 When you say both of these zoning districts are you talking about the RI 12 in the RI you correct and the SF for as Well, it's a conditional in RSF for and by right and RI 12 and RI you thank you for clarifying Anything else? Okay. We have motion second to pass the bill of assurance add to the result Hertzberg yes, Arby. Yes Jones. Yes more I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now that we've got it amended, is there any questions for the staff on the amended or the applicant on the amended ordinance? I have a question. So now that we've amended the ordinance,
 How many houses could be built in each section of this if the, let's see, .48 acres is rezoned to RIU and the 1.32 is rezoned to RI12? You're going to make me do math on the fly. Let's see. So .95 acres or so, okay, RI12. So at .76 times 12.
 You could potentially have nine units in the Ri 12 portion and in the Riu portion since we don't have a stated density maximum It would be limited more by like tree preservation and parking requirements and that sort of thing so it's a little bit harder to give a Number there, but it would probably be around around the same
 Okay, just to clarify, it's 1.32 acres for the RI-12, so you would be able to get nine units on there? It looks like the RI-12 portion is 0.76 acres, and the RIU portion is 0.95 acres. So on the RI-12 portion, it would be, again, 0.76 times...
 Okay, I'm a little confused because I'm looking at the bill of assurance. Oh, sorry. And so I don't know which one is correct. So it looks like the bill of assurance follows slightly different boundaries than the zoning legal descriptions. If you'll allow me to share my screen, I can identify that. Okay. You got some more time? I was thinking maybe...
 If we took what was actually attached to the bill of assurance and we went by piece by piece on this, would that help, Teresa? It would. I think the issue is that these two are different. Yeah. That is the issue. So, yeah. Exactly line up correctly. I'm the same. Yeah. Come on up.
 I can try to shed some light on that issue. The zoning legal descriptions were based off of a survey that Bates provided to us. It was based off of a property line adjustment that created the two parcels to the north of us. It considered right-of-way to be dedicated along Gregg and Elm.
 That was never never filed so That proposal the total is one point seven one acres if I remember correctly the bill of assurance Tried to get it in before tonight's meeting. I was using the Washington County records which totaled 1.8 and
 Acres, so there's about a point o nine acre difference there in those two descriptions So I guess I'm still unclear about what the total acreage is for the RI 12 and the RIU for the RIU on the rezone request Don't have it in front of me. It was for RI 12. It was point seven six acres and
 That was for RI-12, make sure I said that correctly. And then RIU was the remainder, so 0.95 acres. I think the original question was on the number of units. Have you figured out what the number of units in each one of those two zones would be?
 It's possible, even though I know you've got, you can't usually get what is supposedly you can get at that. Right. I mean, we haven't done a full plan. What would be allowed in the RI-12 portion is 12 units across 0.75 acres is, I'm sorry, 12 units per acre. 0.75 acres is nine houses.
 I think you would find it would be difficult to get that much density out of it. You would see similar on the RIU portion, so maybe 11 or 12. And in the RIU portion that would be 11 or 12 single family units or triplexes? We would be a mixture. Just the triplexes, what our intent with those are to face those on to, you know,
 Greg, but the remainder being single family. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? Do you have something, Mike? Okay. All right. Then we'll take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating.
 in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Thank you for this opportunity. I'm Robert Ginsburg. I'm a resident of Elm Street, and I've lived there since 1985. Briefly, in a word of appreciation, the residents of our neighborhood have been meeting regularly. We did, in fact, meet last night with the developers, and I want to...
 We were able to share a lot of thoughts regarding the rezoning request that's before you tonight, and we had a very productive conversation and I Appreciate the attention that the council has paid to this issue as well Some of you have gone to the site and visited it so that you could see some of the challenges for yourself I think as a neighborhood we embrace a sensible development and
 Something that creates new neighborhoods and enhances the quality of life as well as the existing neighborhood to which these new neighborhoods will be a part. I also want to thank and express our, how we're impressed with this developer. We like the work that he has done. We've seen he's done some, built a couple of houses that are joining this.
 And we actually like his ideas for this project, and we're very grateful for his willingness to meet and discuss the project with us. I wish that this amendment had been part of our discussion last night instead of sort of at the zero hour, but that's no one's fault. The bill of assurance I'm referring to.
 Our concerns lie in the fact that there are still too many uncertainties surrounding the cursory ideas put forth, as you can tell, that even get down to the size of the property, and how that could negatively impact the actual outcomes of granting these maximum density rezoning requests. The developer's expressed intentions are based on ideas that he and his architect have admittedly only begun to surmise, with significant unknowns that are yet to be uncovered.
 Granting the rezoning request at this time paves the way for sanctioned development and population density that this property simply is not suited for, regardless of the developer's stated intentions. Of particular concern to our neighborhood is something that's already been mentioned. It's the drainage and the wetland characteristics of the property. This is a low-lying parcel with open stream running through it that will bear the added runoff of a high-density project that the rezoning would allow.
 The density potentials for new residents allowed by the rezoning would further exacerbate the already problematic location for vehicular and pedestrian traffic. This is another concern. At this time, I feel approving the high density rezoning in a unique and well-established neighborhood on a parcel of land fraught with challenges and unknowns is not in the best interest of Fayetteville, its citizens, or the residents of our neighborhood.
 I'd like to add that our neighborhood would love to have the opportunity not only to continue our discussion with a developer in the city and to come up with mutually workable and sustainable plans for this, and maybe even in some ways help forge better relationships between neighborhoods and developers.
 I believe that's all I have. Thank you. Oh, well, no. I think someone else will address this. Oh, it's all right. We'll get everybody. You'll get everybody? Yeah, everybody gets five minutes. Okay. Well, thank you. Thank you.
 Well, I want to really thank the council also and our neighborhood has been incredible. We had 12 one night, we had four show up with the council and many of you which says a lot. I really want to thank Mike Whitaker for really helping us along with this.
 And one of the things that, and Robert stated very well, what it's been like for us working with a developer and really working hard with about 30 people in our neighborhood to figure it out. And we don't all agree, but we have been amazingly able to come to some consensus with each other to move forward. And I feel very honored to live where I do and to be meeting with all these people so much.
 One thing that I did suggest as we talked to the developers that I really wanted to see our neighborhood and the developers work together with Legacy, that I really wanted us to set a precedent for the whole city of Fayetteville, how developers and neighborhoods in the city with all their divisions really work together where neighborhoods have as
 validity and count as much as you all as the developer and everyone else and I really had a vision that once we can do that as a neighborhood and not always feel like everyone else has control and once we give it up we've lost and
 And I think that's where this high density rezoning, that's the part where we get so stuck that when we support Legacy and Tim, we are done. And Tim and the architect were both right there trying to assure us how they would continue to work with us. But the reality is they don't have to.
 Our control is over at that point, and I don't know what we can do about that So I'm really looking for some kind of a paradigm shift here again Where we're as a neighborhood are just as important as drainage. We're just as important as high density enough housing etc and Once we support this
 We need a way to know what's really going to happen before we can come on board and when I suggested to legacy Why not? Residential single family eight and we can agree to those trisectors. They weren't interested They wanted the higher density, so I felt like thank you staying from the mic. It's no. Thank you So I felt like at the end we were a
 Even though we were all talking about the party we'd have as this beautiful place that they were going to create be a neighborhood I realized we've given all our control and
 we have nothing left once that zoning's passed. And that's really the reason why I don't feel like I can come out and some of our residents and support this, that we were willing to give them control, but I didn't feel like they were willing to compromise and maybe think about a lower density.
 And I do, like Robert said, want some time with them to maybe keep working on this. If they're open to some kind of compromise like that, I think we may be able to come to something.
 But right now, that high density on a fragile piece of land that needs a lot of work, a wetland, is too much for me. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ma'am? Yes. Ma'am, I didn't get her name. Oh, I didn't get it. Okay. My name is Margaret Connard, but I go as Peggy. I live at 102 East Elm. Okay, thank you, Margaret or Peggy. I remember me.
 I know it was paid. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I will bring it back. And you don't have anybody on Zoom, Mayor. Yes. Okay. Is anybody on? Nobody on Zoom. Thank you. All right. I'll bring it back to the council for discussion or any kind of action items you want to take.
 I'm intrigued that the neighborhood would like to continue the discussion. I'm wondering if that is something that developers would consider or if this is as far as you're willing to take things. So I'm just curious about that because if we can
 there's room to negotiate and there's a willingness then I think we could hold it or I'd be willing to move that we held it but if there's not if there's not any hope there then then maybe I'd like to advance it so I think y'all have been asked a question so let's let's cut right to the chase here
 Tough question to answer. We talked a lot about working together and being transparent with our plans last night. And the overwhelming concern that I heard at our talk last night was, we like your intent. We like what you're planning to do. But what if somebody else has the property? And...
 And so I think our answer, kind of our consolation to that, was the bill of assurance to try to maintain single family or restrict development primarily to single family housing. And that is going to restrict density in itself.
 I, and Tim, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that was us reaching out, trying to concede something. And so I don't know, I'm struggling to
 We've got a long road to go of creating development plans and going, you know, lots more meetings, development review, and we're completely on board with that. At this level, we would probably like to advance things forward with the ask for the zoning that we've proposed.
 All right. What's the council members from Ward 2 thinking? I want to know myself. Thank you, Mayor. And Sarah, I know you're there online. Peggy thanked me. There's no need. I simply responded to an invitation to a garden party in a front yard, and thank goodness there were no mosquitoes, and I was shocked that 22 people turned out. So I commend the neighborhood for being –
 that in touch with one another. I commend the developer for behaving so responsibly and sensitively to the neighborhood to be willing to meet with them as well. And I know we kind of wish
 as a council that that would occur more frequently so that people could attempt to alleviate the concerns that they have. In private they can share information that the city attorney corrects me if I ask for here in the public setting because it's inappropriate for the law. And so I have great respect for the developer and his architect whom I've grown to appreciate as more and more projects have come forward.
 I think the concerns that I'm left with are the notion of how swampy and wet and the ensuing potential drainage issues for the increase of impervious area on this site.
 And so I'm trying to balance the idea of additional density with not creating additional drainage issues that we then as taxpayers have to spend money to help solve. And my concern is that.
 the infrastructure requirements for the project to get water under the road may be such that the developer ends up saying this isn't a Financially viable project for them. I'm not an expert in drainage or engineering But that would be one of the concerns that I would share with the council. Thank you Mr. Mayor and mayor Sarah is online and would like to speak sure go ahead, sir. I
 I echo Councilperson Whitaker's remarks. I felt so welcomed, and I appreciate the neighbor's
 in this community. And that's the thing I love about Fayetteville are these incredible pockets of community, these very cherished neighbors that take care of one another and kind of band together to try to figure out how to maintain their neighborhoods and to strengthen their neighborhoods. I also really wanna applaud the developer and the architect as well. And I really appreciate the
 the amount of diligence that's happened on both sides to meet together, to meet with your council people, to try to come to a conclusion together. I do really think the developer set forward with this bill of assurance. And I think that probably did come out of the conversations last night that continuing to workshop together
 You know, there is only so much land there and it has been identified about the drainage in that particular area. I think we also have to identify that across Fayetteville, there's groundwater in so many different areas. I live on the VA Hill neighborhood where there's development and there's groundwater there as well.
 And so we're getting much more sophisticated at mitigating and making sure to take care of that. And I think that was mentioned earlier about the experience that's had over at the Willow Bend area. I have had a lot of...
 follow-up from other members of the public in this particular area that I've been supportive of this project, noting the fact that we need increased density or we had planned for it in the city plan 2040. And I, in good faith, feel like this neighborhood and this developer will continue conversations and will continue to
 kind of tweak this design that things go forward to be good neighbors and to be good stewards together and so for that reason tonight I'd be supportive of moving this forward. Okay, one other discussion. I have a question here for Jesse just to make sure I'm looking at this correctly. Okay so our bill of assurance, I'm looking at this thing that's attached to the bill of assurance here.
 So we've got two pieces. It's designated here as two pieces of property. The one that borders Gregg is the one that would have the triplexes. The one that's back in the neighborhood would be single family next to single family.
 That is correct. The way that the bill of assurance is written is that 1.32 acres in this kind of back half would be limited to that cluster housing single family, and then this is not restricted to that bill of assurance in this area here. Sorry, I'm showing it on my screen. I was like looking at you. Yeah, sorry. I'm showing it on my screen there. It's been a long day. You know, I think...
 When I look at this, I think there's been, you know, I really appreciate the developer putting this bill of assurance on here, and I think it's a great step, you know, on their part, and I like the idea of having, if I look at this correctly, we've got some apartments and older duplexes along Gregg. I really like that transition between...
 you know, your higher level density with the apartments and having houses next to houses if possible, but it's a higher density than the other houses there. You know, I think this is always challenging, you know, because I don't know that we've ever had, I'm trying to think, I cannot imagine, I cannot remember a time where we've had a neighborhood that absolutely came to terms
 with a developer and they were, everybody was on board and they're like, yeah, let's go ahead and do this. You know. We had one on the, Teresa you remember that, and I mean, I don't know if you would remember that. But we worked with a neighborhood for about two months and I don't know, I'm sure you have it on in your record somewhere. But, okay. Can't you remember that?
 I will agree it's rare to have a complete agreement between all the parties. Yeah, okay. Not impossible. Okay, it's not impossible, but it's rare. And nobody can tell me the neighborhood. They remember it, but they can't remember it exactly. So that's how uncommon it is.
 So, just not trying to put words in anybody's mouth or anything there, but it is rare. So, I think the builders have tried to come up with a compromise that will be fitting with the neighborhood as much as possible. My concerns with this, I think a lot of these issues would be resolved together.
 When it gets to the large scale development and that's when they start lining out where the streets go, where drainage goes, where access, things like that. The issues I had when we were there, that was really damp. That whole site was really soggy.
 I have a concern with the drainage with the property so these are the things that I'm thinking about this property I haven't made up my mind yet I know we need development I know we need housing and I think this is a pretty good compromise but I do have concerns with the drainage on this property
 I have some serious concerns with the drainage on the property on that on the kind of the Northwest Property the one that's going to be developed under our I you There were wetlands there. There was a pretty good stream flowing that day and
 And this is a very marginal piece of property. And so what's really happening here is that all the best pieces of Fayetteville, all the best pieces to build have already been filled with houses. And now we're going to infill where not the best locations are available. And now we're proposing to put high density there, the highest residential, single-family residential area,
 zoning that we can in that northeast area. And I just have some serious concerns about that. I do commend the developers for their bill of assurance and also for meeting with the neighbors. But we've also heard from the neighborhood, at least 22 different people that still have some serious concerns about development in that area. And that is a longstanding neighborhood.
 They've been there a long time, but they welcomed in the new people on Dutton Place, or will welcome them in.
 Right now, the developers could build there under an RSF4, so it's not like it's off of unavailable for development. It's just this high density development that will cause drainage issues. Even with our drainage codes, they are not sufficient in my opinion. We have climate change. All the climate models have underestimated the rate of change that's occurring.
 so we really need to be thinking about that as decision makers about how this will be in 20 or 30 years so i'm going to probably not support this because of these drainage concerns and the neighborhood's perspective okay so i do want to applaud both the neighborhood and the the builder developer and i i can understand
 The neighborhoods apprehension because the unknown is always the scariest part I think at some point though you have to look at who you're dealing with You have to look at their track record We have to Acknowledge the checks and balances that the city has in place to ensure your your concerns the I really think it would be a a
 know the developer said they'd like to move forward but I think considering the movement that we've had and Considering the bill of assurance was kind of a last-minute Addition and by their own admission the neighborhood it was kind of dropped on them at the last minute I think it really would behoove all parties to take a breather and And go back and look at it and see if there is any additional movement either way
 With the understanding, no one's ever going to get everything they want. You know, usually the best outcomes are when both parties are given a little bit. And I understand the developer side because whether we like it or not, the bottom line is the bottom line. They have to be able to pay for the property, pay for their costs, and still turn a profit. I understand the neighborhood side. They have to protect their neighborhood.
 but i think given some time considering what we've seen so far it should be a i mean this should be the neighborhood and the developers should be a perfect example to the rest of our city on how to how to communicate with each other they they're setting the bar
 So I think if we give them a little bit more time, maybe we come. Maybe we don't, but at least if we give them a couple more weeks to talk it through, maybe we come up to a positive development on both sides. So that would be my suggestion.
 Yes, thank you. Thanks, Jesse, for holding that tour for us. And it was very helpful. And it was a very wet day. I don't know if it's always that wet, but it was. I usually try to hike right straight through the middle of properties and I was not going to do that because I was
 going to be in the middle of a swamp. Um, because I look for water and sparkles and there was no dry spot. So it is very, um, swampy space. Um, so my, my question is, um, is from Jet, maybe it's a question for Jesse. Um,
 Is there a point during the process of development that it might be determined that is kind of considered a more protected land? Or when would that potentially could possibly happen that it's deemed protected, more protected land?
 somewhat protected? Yeah, that's a great question. So during the development review process, this would likely come through as a large scale development at which time they would have to basically show adherence to our drainage criteria manual.
 Since there are hydric soils on the site, that could indicate the presence of wetlands, so they would potentially need to identify those areas and take further steps to potentially mitigate or remediate for that. Our engineering division reviews for those standards typically and makes sure that everything is meeting ordinance, typically before items are approved by the Planning Commission.
 So possibly, could it affect the development if it was deemed so, you know, to be protected? Okay. Yes. But it would be to be determined because we don't know what the development is. Then my second question is, on behalf of Ms. Peggy, I wanted to...
 make sure and let her know that there is more opportunity for input along the way. Is that correct or is that incorrect? Because I think it's not over here, I believe. I believe there's continuing...
 conversation through the development process and opportunity. Is that correct? Sure, yeah. So the rezoning would end with city council. You all would make the determining factor there. But when a project comes through as a development, if it does come through as a large-scale development, there would be opportunity for public comment.
 Oftentimes if a project is meeting all city standards and they're not seeking any variances There may not be a lot of wiggle room for added conditions of approval or things like that But if a project is seeking variances or asking for some form of additional discretionary approval with the development There could be room for other discussions there. But typically a large-scale development does go to a public hearing and it is approved by the Planning Commission
 Okay, great. Thank you. And then, well, I guess I have one more question because I don't know the notification on that hearing. What does that look like? It's just the timing. It's a similar process to what the neighbors experience with the rezone. Typically with large-scale developments, the developer has to publicly notify through a posted sign and written notification through letters. Thank you, Jessie. I don't have any further questions. I'm still...
 Trying to take it all in. Thank you. Okay, so you're on the third reading here So can they just leave it on the third reading kit? I thought we were only on the second reading. Oh, I'm sorry Well, that's good then so you can leave it here and let it go two weeks or you can table it for a while Or you could go to the third reading If we if it doesn't pass tonight and
 then in the developer what is the time frame if it does not pass that they can come back and reapply. Just to clarify that would be if you all denied the request this evening the typical time period there is 12 months for developer to come back with the same request. I would be in favor if that's our you know
 I'd be in favor of just holding it on this reading for two more weeks. I mean, what I'm hearing here, you all can just let it run the normal three readings like it would anyway instead of advancing it. So that gives everybody two more weeks to...
 i'm okay with that too and just my quick feedback i okay i would love to see um i wish that i could vote separately on these parcels because i'm fine with the ra12 but my concern like teresa's with the rau and if there was any way that we could make it a little bit more appealing to the neighbors to have that top part a little bit less dense that would be great i don't know if it's possible with what you guys are wanting to do but i'd love to see that if possible
 Since it looks like we're going to hold this, if we could get a better map so that it's really clear about where the bill of assurance applies and where the different zoning types are before two weeks, that would be extremely helpful so that we can understand. And I've got to kind of admit that's my fault. When they sent us just a bill of assurance, I said, that's not very understandable. We need to see a map. Yeah.
 And so they didn't have a lot of time to put that together. I'm sure that you can get a nicer prettier map in two weeks I have Since we're still on this I have one one more question. Do you have a question? Were you ahead of me Sarah? Yeah, go ahead. Okay. So so Jesse Sonia asked about lands being protected and
 And so during the large scale development review, and I just wanted to clarify that, I mean, has the development services or through that process ever actually protected land and said you cannot build here? Or is it just that the drainage standards and the amount of drainage work that has to be done is...
 Is is really high and so the developer may choose not to develop in that area I just want to get clarification on that process because I don't understand it very well. That's a good question I
 whether a development has ever not been able to move forward. I mean, certainly there have been developments that haven't been able to move forward, and maybe they've encountered issues during the development review process. But as far as the hydric soils specifically, which are a known indicator of wetlands, typically before...
 they would be able to get building permits. They would have to seek a statement or a report from an environmental professional, which would summarize the existence of those wetlands. And if they are present, then a determination of jurisdictional wetlands has to be required at the time of development submittal. So there are just a bunch of standards that would have to be met as far as those wetlands requirements. And certainly there are times when potentially development wouldn't be
 to be permitted, but it is slightly out of my wheelhouse of knowledge since the engineering
 Thank you very much. And the date that they would have to apply, I guess with, I'm trying to remember now, I guess it's EPA or the state or whatever, for those wetlands, that would be now. It wouldn't be three or four years ago when the standards were different. Is that correct? As far as I know, yeah. If they haven't applied for anything recently, they would probably be starting from the beginning would be my guess. Thank you.
 I have one more thing. Sure. One more thing I'd like to add. It has to do with RSF4 zoning. And I would like to encourage all the council members to go to our code and look at the different types of zoning and look at the map of our city and think about how much of our city is still zoned RSF4. I live in RSF4. Probably a lot of you live in RSF4.
 That is an antiquated zoning though. It's not, it doesn't jive with what is happening in the world today. And when we say, well it's RSF4, someone could build on it at RSF4, that's just, in a lot of cases, that's just lip service. Because the fact of the matter is that people can't pay
 2023 prices for property and then develop it at a 1980 or 1970 standard or my house was built in 1962 rsf4 it's just not possible and we're also we're not really supposed to consider if a developer makes money on something but this is just practical common sense that it can't
 We can't always do these things the way that they have been done in the past. So I would encourage everybody on the council, if you haven't, I know Mike served on planning commission, go back and read through some of these things and really brush up on the code and just look at the city map and how much of the city is zoned RSF4 still. Because this is a challenge we're going to face wherever someone wants to buy some land and develop it.
 It's probably not going to, the desire is probably not going to be there for RSF4 because a developer can't put in on a piece of property three houses and sell them for six million apiece. The demand isn't there, but the demand is there for maybe 1,200, 1,300 square foot homes.
 it's close it's a closer demand than the than the high-priced houses that might end up on a piece of property so just please take a look at that thank you anything else so i think we're going to hold this for two weeks and then we will thrash this out again all right okay well let's go on to new business
 Number one, a resolution to approve the fire department incentive plan and to approve a budget adjustment. Missed it.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. Last week we presented a detailed plan for the fire department incentives, which included longevity pay, education pay, and certificate and assignment pay. And we are recommending that City Council approve that incentive plan. And I have Paul here to discuss any financial side of it, as well as Assistant Chief Good is here as well to talk about the certs if needed. Okay. Okay.
 Paul, you're up.
 We talked about this last week. The cost of this would be roughly $400,000 this year. Ongoing annual cost, $500,000. We covered that last time. And when I incorporate that with the other pay plan that you approved before, if we look just at sales tax, it would take about a 9.23% increase in sales tax.
 to balance revenues with expenditures. For the last three years, we've averaged 12.78%. For the last five years, a little over 7%. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul on finances? And then we're going to get Chief Good up here. Nothing? All right. Chief Good. Good evening, Mayor, Councilmembers.
 Chief Hardin put together a very thorough presentation for y'all, so I'm gonna leave it with that and just answer any questions you may have. Okay, do we have any questions for Chief Good? And you can have questions after we hear public comment, if you wish. All right. Right now, Chief Good, you seem to be off the hook, so to speak. Thank you. All right. What questions does the council, the council obviously doesn't have any questions, so let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Okay, Jimmy.
 Hello everybody, Jimmy Vandrup with Fayetteville Firefighters and Resident Ward 4. I would hope y'all would support this. I'll give you a brief little history on this. The firefighters brought this to the fire administration's attention mid to late last summer. We're very impressed with the work that the fire administration put forward on researching it and getting the information out. They pushed it forward to the mayor's office and the
 Susan, Paul, and Missy worked extensively on it. We appreciate the support they've given us
 that and then over the last two weeks we witnessed all of you reach out and educate yourself on that and we as an organization appreciate y'all's attention to this detail. We believe that it helps us in recruitment, retention and overall morale and we think all of those benefit the community of Fayetteville and the service that we provide to the community and we'd appreciate your support.
 thank you any questions for me yeah you have any questions all right well let's take some public comment I already doing that now we're in the middle of public comment we're having public comment on where's anybody else in the check we have anybody by zoom yes sir all right I'll bring back to the council this is a
 This is a resolution. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? I'd make a motion we move forward with the resolution for approval. Second. Second. Okay. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Alright, let's move on to number two an ordinance rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 23-003 located at 1275 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 2.24 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the city council or the city of favor Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre to rmf 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre in section 2 that the city council or the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Okay, cheers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So the subject property before you today, it's located approximately 350 feet north of the intersection of West North Avenue and North Gregg Avenue. It's about half, the southern half of a single lot of record. It's approximately 2.24 acres. It's currently zone RMF 24, and it's the site of the Central Baptist Church, one single family dwelling, and associated outbuildings.
 So, as stated, the request before you today is to rezone the property from RMF24 to RMF40.
 Staff, as far as the land use compatibility goes, we do find the request to be compatible with the surrounding mix of uses. The surrounding area includes two multifamily developments, a church and single family dwellings across North Gregg Avenue to the east. The permitted and conditional uses are identical between the two zoning districts. We also find that the bulk and area regulations are suitable.
 Not out of context with the surrounding properties The scale of what would be allowed is contextually appropriate as well There are single-family dwellings in the area. Those are typically though across Greg over to the east and We do think that the Greg does provide a bit of a separation between the two areas some items to bring to your attention as far as a
 future land use plans. As far as City Plan 2040 goes, this is compliant with the future land use map. And the infill score is actually quite high for this location. It is scored as a 10.
 Some of the things that contribute to that are the adequate fire response, available water and sewer infrastructure, proximity to parks and trails, and transit routes. It's also very close to the U of A main campus, a grocery store, and again it is appropriately described as a city neighborhood area.
 The tree canopy coverage would be the same between the two zoning districts. There would be an added density. It would go from basically a maximum of 53 to 89 units given the allowances in the different zoning districts. We did receive some public comment. One comment was actually in support of the request. We did not receive any in opposition and no members of the public spoke at the planning commission meeting.
 So both staff and Planning Commission are recommending approval of this with a vote of 8-0-0 Planning Commission found that the request was compatible and appropriate and found that it was a good candidate for more zoning entitlements With that I can answer any questions, and I believe we have a Nathan Crouch from the applicants team present I'm sorry mayor. He's online. He just raised his hand mr. Crouch. I
 Thank you. Nathan Crouch with Bullion Associates. I just wanted to make myself available in case you had any questions. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions from the council for the applicant or staff? Nope. Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that.
 Who would like to speak on this topic? Okay, do you have anybody on Zoom, Susan? No, sir. Okay, I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care to please call the roll. Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Yes, we did her yes, Erna. Yes, yes Yes, and your answer is on that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-3 located at 1275 North Greg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately two and a quarter acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 Residential multifamily 40 units per acre. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading I
 Move motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore?
 Yes, we'd occur yes, Erna. Yes, thanks. Yes, Kurt Yes, an ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-3 located at 1275 North Gregg Avenue In Ward 2 for approximately two and a quarter acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre any final comments from council care which please call the roll I
 herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes arno yes yes kirk yes okay thank you all number three an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 23-004 located at 2910 north old wire road and ward 3 for approximately 14.70 acres from rsf4
 residential single family four units per acre and RA residential agriculture to RA residential agriculture and NC neighborhood conservation kit.
 I be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre and RA residential agricultural to RA residential agricultural and NC neighborhood conservation.
 And section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. OK. Cheers. Thank you, Mayor. So the subject property before you on this item, it's located in East Fayetteville. It's approximately 700 feet west of the intersection of North Crossover Road and North Old Wire Road. The property is currently split zoned between RA and RSF4.
 It is RSF4 on the western half of the property and RA on the eastern side. It's currently developed with one single family house, and it is covered with extensive tree canopy.
 The eastern part of the property is within the flood zone. There's also a protected stream in that area. So the developer does intend to extend some of the portion that is zoned RA to kind of align with those current environmental challenges.
 And then the rest of the property in this square here, the developer is requesting to rezone from RSF4 to NC. So staff does find that the request is compatible with the surrounding context. There is a pretty widely varied use and density.
 Grid in the area there's a variety of sizes and generally have sort of that RSF for but do generally sort of have that RSF for development pattern The existing and proposed zoning districts have similar uses But one of the main differences between them is that NC uses urban form setbacks so it requires a bill to zone rather than a traditional setback in the front and
 There would also be an increased density allowed. So in RSF4, the maximum is four units per acre and in NC or neighborhood conservation, the maximum is 10 units per acre. The tree canopy also changes. The requirement in the current zoning district would be 25% and that would decrease to 20% with this request.
 There is a relatively low infill rating on this property. It is a score of five. It does have an adequate fire response. It is located very close to station number five. And there is water and sewer available. It's also close to Gully Park and a paved trail. The Neocascod Creek Trail is very close by to the west of this property as well.
 Um, so, uh, this was heard at the February 27th, 2023 planning commission meeting. Um, staff and planning commission did recommend approval. The vote was five and two with one commissioner recusing.
 The commissioners that were in favor of the request found that it was a compatible and conducive to walkability. They found that it was appropriate near the crossover corridor and they found that they agreed with the alignment of rezoning a portion of the property to RA with the floodplain made a lot of sense in the area.
 Um, some of the commissioners who did not vote in favor of it that were opposed to the request cited the low infill rating and, um, that there may be limited potential connectivity throughout the area and, and felt that it was somewhat inconsistent with the future land use plans. Um,
 in the area. It is worth noting that we did receive a lot of public comment on the item. We did receive one member in support of the request, but multiple were opposed to the request, citing primarily drainage concerns, flooding, traffic issues, and density, as well as insufficient schools in the area that the school system may have issues with more
 I'm happy to answer any additional questions that you may have again staff and the Planning Commission did recommend in favor and We do have an applicant present tonight. I believe Blake Jorgensen is here to present this item Yes, sir, good evening mayor and council thanks for all this time tonight We are asking to rezone this property. We're trying to realign the
 the actual floodplain boundary to be RA, and then everything outside that to be NC. This is kind of consistent with what we did on the property behind Butterfield School. We did a NC zoning behind there, form-based zoning. We felt that was the most appropriate. With the way we have this partition, the 5.49 acres will be RA,
 That would be true preservation. That would be 35% which is above and beyond any of the zonings that are required at this point. And I know there's been a lot of confusion about this concept of NC installing a density that it's way above and beyond that's actually
 When you break down the fact that any property that's developed, you have to dedicate right-of-way utilities, you know, this and that, you're never going to achieve the density that's been talked about. Typically we look at a range of RS4 being 3.2 and then NC being maybe 4.8. That's what we look at in terms of a realized density. But that's not
 anything really that we've laid out in this project. It just was something that came up. So I wanted to bring that up. The fact that we feel the infill score, we understand may be a little bit low, but you're as close to crossover as you can get. And we have the fire station there, and we think there's the ultimate, I mean the amenities are extremely close. The fact that we have the city trail there,
 and it connects to Goli Park and it also preserves the Neocostco Creek. There is no encroachment into that area. So we feel that this is a fairly, we hope this is a reasonable request and we hope that the council can have questions that we can answer and we really appreciate all your time and consideration tonight.
 The public comment. So if there's public comment that we need to address, please let me know. So thanks a lot. Thank you What was the infield score? Just infield score is five Okay, so there's what questions does the council have for the staff or the app? Please
 I have a question for Jessie. Just so I'm clear, because they're kind of realigning the RA and then the NC. So how many acres are they requesting just for the NC portion? So the NC portion would be 9.54 acres and the RA portion would be 5.75 acres. Okay. Thank you very much. Anything else? Yes.
 Believe when we were out there During property the agent that was present. I was trying to remember as it's Mitch We were talking about the high number of allowable Units, I think it's 90 And he was kind of conveying to us a number he thought was a
 Do you have, without saying the number he gave us, do you have, does the applicant have a number that is more realistic? All right. If you don't mind, let me pull my phone out and do a little math here. So we're getting in front of the mic again. We are proposing to...
 get the NC to 9.78. So if I do my normal calculations, we're talking maybe 50, 55 lots, which is way below the 80 or 90 that's been cited. I mean, you have to dedicate right away. You know, the streets are going to be at a minimum of,
 anywhere from 43 to 51 feet of right-of-way. By the time you take that out, do setbacks. And another thing that's been mentioned is drainage. When we go to an NC zoning, we have, as an engineer, I have much more reliability on knowing the impervious surface going into the stream side. If we do RSF4, yes, the lots are bigger,
 but we can't assume the size of the home. So if a home is on an RSF4 lot, you could put a four or five thousand square foot home on that lot. On an NC, you can't physically put the
 first four footprint on that. And so when we do our storm drainage calculations, it's actually more accurate in NC because we know the exact amount of pervious because we just assume the worst case scenario. On RSF4, we don't, we can't, we can't know that. That's not to say that RSF4 is bad zoning. It's just that NC
 the ability for us to
 predict the more impervious surface for storm drain and runoff. So to answer your question, I know that's a different, I can't imagine any scenario, I've been doing this for 20 years, that it would be more than 60 lots. I can't imagine that. I mean, they'd have to encroach into the the RA zoning. That's not possible. Fayetteville has a no adverse impact
 study that's required for floodplain studies and any encroachment into the floodplain basically says that you have to have compensatory storage for whatever you offset. So that's why that boundary line was drawn directly along that floodplain line. So it's a, I think it's pretty easy to predict the maximum number of
 And I can easily say it's way, way under what's been projected. So does that answer your question, Mr. Berman? Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber.
 are allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak after that who would like to address us in the chamber thank you mayor uh council my name is robert crouch i live at 2816 north rain tree drive um mayor i'm not as eloquent as you are so i'm very uncomfortable in this position speaking i appreciate uh your guys patience with me tonight um
 I think, you know, getting density is important to our city. I think that's a reality. It was spoken that RSF4 is becoming outdated to some extent, but I do think it still has a role. Appropriate infill is goal number one, not maximum infill. And I think that in the absence of a plan, it's important to take into consideration what could happen.
 Because we don't have anything, any reassurances right now that they won't try to maximize what could be done on that property. And so I think it's reasonable to assume the potential for the maximum on there. But even if the developer didn't maximize the density, an additional 50 to 60 units on that parcel still wouldn't be appropriate to the existing road infrastructure, schools, the nature of the surrounding neighborhoods.
 Right now, Old Wire Road has a difficult time managing the traffic that does go up and down it, and you're going to be putting a great number of cars right there at the crux of an intersection that's already identified as a high-density intersection at Old Wire and Crossover based on the land use maps that I was able to pull up from the website.
 Right now our schools are facing some overcrowding issues on this side of town. You're going to put in another 60 homes, potentially family homes likely, in a situation where schools are already struggling to meet the demand.
 And then, you know, another piece to this is just in terms of goal number one in section 3.17 of the city plan outlines protecting community character. The way NC zones have been done, and I've seen what they've done down there by Butterfield, they just clear cut the entire section, right?
 If you look through the neighborhood, one part of the neighborhood character from our neighborhood on Raintree all the way to Gully Park, if you walk through it and you look at the plots, nearly every lot has trees older than the houses that were built on them.
 When you have lots, it allows for that contingent of trees. So I would argue that the NC isn't really applicable here in terms of it's not connected, not compact, not complete in terms of goal number three. We're two miles from the nearest tier two zones.
 I know, I'm a runner, I keep up with my mileage. It's two miles down to the shopping area at Mission and Crossover, it's two miles to the other business-oriented area from at Crossover and Joyce. And if you want to walk your kids to school a safe route and put them on the trail, it's two miles to get from our neighborhood to Butterfield Trail. Now then, if you want to entrust them to Cross Old Wire,
 that's fine. But it's, I would much rather send them on the trail, but it's still a two-mile walk from the, from that neighborhood all the way over using the trails. In terms of goal number four, a livable transportation network, if you're putting 60 additional houses on there, and the statistics right now are that about 60% of households are two-income households. That's just the nature of our economics. With two incomes sending out two vehicles every day,
 you're looking at another 80 to 100 vehicles coming out of that neighborhood onto Old Wire. There's not really good accessible...
 public transport, even if you're using the school bus in terms of having a school bus safely stop along Old Wire. And then goal number five, that enduring green network. I think RS4, I think any zoning, especially where you have an urban forest already established, any zoning that has a lot that will allow for the developer to come in and selectively keep healthy trees in place goes much further
 to contributing to that enduring greenway and to the tree canopy of our city, then doing mitigation planning. And in those NCs with those almost zero lot line plats, there aren't trees there. They take them all out. And so I do feel like this density is inappropriate for this parcel of land,
 just based on looking at the goals that the city council and has put out there for their guiding principles and the vision that they have. I think that a different zoning would go far further in meeting a variety of goals and rather than maximizing density. Thank you for my time, I appreciate it. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Jordan, good to see you again. Rob Keys, I live at 2792.
 North Raintree Drive. I appreciate the council's time tonight as well as several of you I know came out to visit the site last week. That's much appreciated. That was my neighbor, Rob Crouch. He's been my neighbor for 16 years. I knew this would happen. He checked off every bullet point that I had. He's a good neighbor, what can I say? And you know what? We're not opposed to getting more good neighbors. We're in favor of getting the appropriate neighbors.
 amount of new neighbors, which I think he addressed as well. So really he didn't leave me a lot to say. I could reiterate all his points, but I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to waste everybody's time and use all of my five minutes. I would like to say, I think it's important to note that just because something is antiquated, I can't say that word, how do you say it in Spanish? Antiquated? I don't think that means that
 that means it's ever the right time to do the wrong thing in the wrong place. And I think that's what's happening here, and it's pretty obvious. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yeah, I'm Richard Tiffany. I live at 105 North Willow. My daughter owns a house on Old Wire, adjacent to this property at 2850 Old Wire. And I guess my personal concern is that
 She didn't receive notification. She's working out of the country and it may be just an address misunderstanding. Most of her mail comes to me at my place while she's gone.
 But it'd be nice to check up to make sure that that appropriate mailing was sent In a conversation. I did have with her a week or so ago she was concerned about the the density and And the tree cover and and I wasn't really prepared to talk with her about speaking tonight So so I'm not going to be more specific than that. Thanks. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, everyone. My name is Nick Mote. I live at 2811 North Raintree Drive with Ms. Alexis Stevens, who's here with me. I'm supposed to be on Zoom right now, but we got nervous. We weren't going to get the link and hurried up here. I think...
 My neighbors have hit on many of the ways that this project doesn't coincide with the 2040 plan. But one thing I'd also like to hit on are the notice requirements. The applicant and the council has even alluded to some of the confusion that there has been with regard to the density that is going to be in place with this proposed rezoning. That's an important part of what the notice is supposed to say.
 I'm an attorney and I didn't know what HCRA and the limited language on that notice was. It didn't say that we could go from 32 to 95 houses. It didn't say that the maximum was going to be 60 houses. That's an important part under the law.
 section 153 of the code and under 157 of the code. And also with regard to proof of mailing, one of the requirements before this committee or council can even consider the petition is there has to be a map submitted of the current property owner's address. That's nowhere that I can find.
 So I think just from a procedural aspect, the application is just deficient on its face and can't even be considered today. So on that basis, I would ask that the council either deny or at least defer consideration of the petition.
 pending analysis of whether the notice and regulatory requirements are met. I've also submitted a written statement earlier this evening that I want to incorporate, excuse me, by reference, that spells out that in more detail.
 Going to the 2040 plan, I think it's important to note, as the planning committee did, the low score that it received, only a five, and several committee members articulated that it's not consistent with the current uses of the property. Almost this whole area from Old Wire all the way to Township is primarily zoned RS4.
 And one of the main considerations of the 2040 plan is maintaining the character of the neighborhood. Taking our neighborhood from 12 and 8,000 square foot lots to 4,000 square foot lots that can be built 500 or 5 feet apart with row houses and townhomes is not going to maintain the character of the neighborhood.
 Some of my neighbors have also hit on traffic issues. I've cited some data from the Arkansas Department of Transportation in my written statement.
 crossover is one of the crossover and old wire is one of the busiest intersections in fayetteville right now and a little over 8 000 cars a day already travel down old wire which is a two-lane road one on each side almost every curve almost every driveway every road is either on a hill or a blind curve so it's already somewhat dangerous we've recently added the gully park
 addition over there and they're currently develop developing the the property east of Butterfield At 2.2, which is the average number per household At 95 in Fayetteville and if we were to add 95 houses, that's 209 additional people Two trips a day. I mean we're looking at an extra 500 cars a day on old wire not to mention what's going to happen that Butterfield Elementary and
 So, I don't think there's sufficient infrastructure there to support such ambitious growth. And then lastly, I think the 2040 plan really emphasizes keeping our tree canopy, the enduring green network, the floodplain that's present there, and I think there are lots of environmental concerns with regard to flooding.
 and things of that nature that need to be considered before we can move forward with such an ambitious rezoning request. If there's no questions, I'll conclude my statement. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, my name is John Hughes and I live at 2756 North Raintree.
 Thanks for all the council members who came out last week and looked at the property. I appreciate you guys coming out. I wish you could have seen it on a day like today when it was nice and wet. But I live right at the corner of a rain tree in Juniper, so I'm at the very bottom of the hill. Flooding is a very big concern of mine with this. I agree with everything else my neighbors said back there, but giving an example, I
 Last year in the spring, standing on my back porch at 3 a.m. in the morning after it had rained like cats and dogs for three hours, that creek is scary. And I can't imagine what it's going to be like with the addition of the new Gully Grove, all those rooftops, all that water going into that creek, and then the addition of all these new houses. How is that going to affect the community?
 my house and every house that's on along New Casca Creek. And then I just don't know if there's been enough consideration for what's gonna happen there. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, who's on Zoom? We have Joshua Malott. Okay, go ahead. Hi, my name is Joshua Malott. I live at 2905 North Old Wire on the western corner of this property.
 I agree with all of my neighbors. I haven't lived here super long, so I haven't had a chance to meet them or anything like that. But they had some really good points that I didn't think of. The other concerns that I had were if we are going to have new, more dense infill here, which I know is infill desirable, possibly limiting it to 2 story structures so that it more fits with the existing established neighborhoods that are here.
 My other concern is with walkability along Old Wire. I've been sitting here in my kitchen watching people risk their lives on bicycles trying to get home. There's hardly any sidewalk along here between 45 and Old Missouri. So I think if we're going to increase density along with the new development at the end of –
 I think we need to work on walkability in this area. And yeah, thank you. I have no one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, well I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'm sorry, as soon as I said that I had a hand raised. Carla Cope. Okay, go ahead. Hello.
 My name is Carla Cope. I have been a Fayetteville homeowner in Ward 3 for 22 years. I live on Old Wire Road at 2796. I am in agreement with all the other residents voicing concerns that the proposed rezoning will appreciably increase the load on existing infrastructure and public services and public schools.
 We are all concerned with the burden of our existing traffic already on our city streets, and this would result in even more traffic and put further stress on our infrastructure. And there are some very good statistics quoted, so I will defer to those. Those were very well stated. And in addition, the proposed rezoning would result in an increase in population density
 I feel will result in considerable reduction in the permeable area and present significant challenges in the management of drainage and stormwater runoff. I request you give these concerns some very serious consideration. I feel that the current zoning of RSF 4 provides good growth, consistent with the character of the neighborhood,
 And still remains consistent with the goals of city plan 2040. In addition, I have one question. I'm not sure if this is the format to present a question, but I'd like to do to find out. I haven't been able to find it online. If there is a anything in the zoning that specifies a maximum percentage. Of permeable to impermeable surface area when something is built.
 think that would clarify a lot of the confusion about The runoff between the two different zones and I haven't been able to find if that's a factor of consideration Thank you very much. Thank you. There is no one else at this time mayor. There is no one else. Okay We'll bring back to the council. Yeah I'm sure Sarah will back me up on this is we've had numerous emails
 voice and concern about this particular rezoning. The vast majority of them have been in opposition. I think, number one, we've got to identify that this is a sizable piece of property, a very attractive piece of property that's going to be developed. But we've got to do it the right way. And I want to make sure that we take our time. And I think it would be advisable to hold this and
 have the developer and the neighbors take the previous Elm Street rezoning as an example of community speaking with developers. Everyone that spoke tonight has very reasonable concerns. I have concerns about that piece of property, even though I understand it's going to be developed. But I think
 Every concern we've heard, every email I've gotten has been very gracious, acknowledged that it's going to be developed. They're reasonable people. I think the developer is a reasonable person. I think if we hold this on the first reading and get you all together, we're going
 are we gonna are we gonna all agree no but maybe we can get closer and to where everyone's more comfortable with the situation so that's what i would advise okay everybody i think so but i would also like to have a little discussion sure we do that i have a follow-up question for jesse can you pull up that slide with the tree canopy requirements again
 I just wanted to see the difference between current and proposed because I think if I'm remembering right they are similar if not the same They are similar but generally it would go from a 25% to a 20% Okay, thank you
 I have another question for Jesse. One of the public comments was procedural issues. Could you check that out and investigate and make sure that we've actually followed the rule of the law?
 oftentimes we don't hear that somebody didn't receive notice so I'm wondering if there there's wrong address or there's there was a glitch there or something like that so sure staff evaluated the public notification process at the time of Planning Commission and found that the applicant was substantially compliant with our requirements for public notification so that that has been researched already
 So the actual address of the owner was there that somebody said was a requirement? I would have to, I don't know if that member of the public wants to verify a name. I do have somebody on the list of individuals who were contacted who has the same last name as the individual who mentioned that. So you may want to clarify that name. But they're on the list of people who supposedly received a letter or were sent one anyway. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. I think we're seeing a trend tonight. The first is I would compliment our community. The level of civil discourse in this community is remarkable and I commend people that are attempting to develop, people that have concerns about development. It's just been the professional appropriate way that democracy is supposed to work.
 I think the second thing that I would mention is that we're hitting stormwater concerns over and over and over. And that's going to be an expensive issue for our community to deal with going forward. And then the third is, Councilwoman Bunch used my name earlier, and so I have to return the favor and say, sometimes our labels are confusing for us. And so one of the ways I like to think about it is we're talking about
 rezonings are really in one way lot widths that we're going to allow. 70 foot lot widths for RSF4, a 50 foot lot width for RSF8, or a 40 foot lot width with NC. And so it's almost, in some ways, adds to the confusion and the complexity that if you say we're going to go from RSF4 to RSF8,
 you would think oh gee we're doubling the density well really you're going from a 70 to 50 foot lot width that's about a 22 percent increase in density and so when we have our upcoming city council retreat i know that we're going to want to put storm water and our zoning code on it because i think that there's a general consensus that rsf4 as currently defined may not make
 societal environmental and financial sense going forward in the community and yet we're hearing concerns about density that crosses a threshold of both community comfort and financial comfort for the city at large as taxpayers when we create additional stormwater management
 issues that the community might bear beyond the developer. And so somewhere in between those two, it might be appropriate for us to wrestle with that concept of
 something such as single-family zoning is a 50-foot lot width, which is where I've lived my entire life until I moved into my current home. And so it's not a foreign concept. And so I know that we're discussing this case, but I throw that out to say that no one's being unreasonable. The developer and the residents, there's no one being unreasonable. There are appropriate cautions and concerns.
 And I commend the developer for being responsible, having the representative there when we toured. And I would just hope that council would take the bait and that maybe we want to discuss the zoning at our upcoming retreat when that gets scheduled. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Okay. Which one of y'all? I just wanted to have a point of clarification.
 for myself, but also for the residents in the community. While I acknowledge that the school issue is a significant issue, because you see the temporary classrooms at McNair and all that, that technically is not something we as city council have any control over, and we can't take that in consideration. Is that right or wrong?
 i think that's absolutely correct that's handled by the school district board a similar board to the city council we don't tell them what to do we can't tell them where to put a school how big the school should be and they look at what the city council is doing and then they're supposed to apply that to figure out where they need another school or do they need to enlarge a school but really it's what we cannot consider that as as an issue when it comes to zoning
 Okay, I have a couple of questions for, I'll just start with, so, you know, I always try to look at rezonings, and I'm not an engineer, but I always try to look at rezonings from the perspective of, am I thinking this is going to create a really unsafe traffic issue? Am I wrong in that?
 Well, traffic certainly is an acceptable issue for zoning that could be looked at. Yes, and possibly, you know, drainage is also another one. So I try to look at it from these two big issues right there. Now that being said though, when something gets rezoned, the streets, part of that large-scale development will be...
 And this is where Jesse might kick in here a little bit, but if it's determined that there needs to be a Stoplight or if a stoplight would be you know, the number of homes, you know would support a stoplight I know it is a that's not a state highway there But or a turn lane or something like that that is kind of a determination that's made when the development is proposed Is that correct? That's correct. Okay now I
 NC zoning. Jessie, what type of commercial application can be in NC zoning? NC is a strictly residential district. Okay. Does it allow for apartments? It does not, by right, no. Okay.
 It doesn't allow for apartments? Not by right, no. Not by right. So it only allows for single family? Correct. Okay. So one thing that we're looking at when we're talking about RSF4 versus NC zoning, we're talking about single family homes next to single family homes. And that's something that I look at very, very closely when we talk about the composition of a neighborhood.
 You know, it is very, you know, when we say, oh, well, this is all RSF4. Well, this is also single-family homes here, too. You know, so I would encourage the neighbors to think about this in a way where they're thinking about not just this is going to be just huge density here, but to think about this type of zoning prevents any damage.
 The things that we just mentioned that the the apartments it doesn't allow for commercial that sort of thing now And I liked Mike's comments about the differences in the lot widths Where you know when you talk about 70 to 40 feet? That's not it doesn't sound like it's I wonder how far it is between me and you right now So, you know, it's not as far as it sounds but then when you put houses on it It changes the look of the property a lot. I
 Now, the tree canopy there, when we walked around this land, and this is not really, I'm not tying all this together very well, but when we walked around the land, there were some really significant trees on this property that I was just like, you know, they were good-sized, big trees that you can't replace those once they're cut down, if they're cut down. So, you know, that's a concern of mine. But the traffic is a concern.
 But we can't change that right now until we know what might be built there. And the trees are a concern, and the drainage is a big concern of mine. But now on to the RA zoning that's down along the creek. So...
 That is put in kind of, RA is used kind of, frequently used as a buffer. It's probably not going to be developed. Is there any land in that RA? I know RA is one house per acre, but is there any land in that, let's see, it's five, five,
 I forgot five, lost it off my screen here, five something, 5.7 acres. Is there any land, when you take in the stream side ordinance and stuff like that, Jessie, is there any way that that could ever be developed? And I know that's a big question there, but it. It's not likely that much would get developed in that area given the encumbrances of the stream side and the flood plain.
 and potential lack of street frontage and that sort of thing. It's not likely that it would be developed. Okay. So, you know, those are things I consider too when I think about this, is there's this big swath of land there that's going to be probably never, I couldn't imagine it being developed. It doesn't mean...
 Somewhere down the line, the codes might change somehow. You know, I don't know. So these are all things I take into consideration when I look at a property. And like Scott said, the schools, unfortunately, we just don't have any say. So where they build a school or how large it is,
 you know, or, but I know the schools are, you know, they're having trouble with the schools. They're over, you know, overpopulated on this side of town. So these are all the things that I consider, but I do, it weighs very heavily on my mind that this is single family next to single family. And so that's a big consideration of mine. Thank you. Teresa. Teresa.
 thank you mayor um since it looks like we're going to hold this till next till for two weeks um jesse could we have some information on the number of accidents on old wire and those kinds of of data before our next council meeting i think that might be very helpful for us so thank you sure jesse i also know that we have uh add on to that uh accidents
 the level of accidents, the type of accidents, not just a fender bender, but anything, a fatality, anything that was a bad accident. Someone got sent to the hospital or whatever. And also, if you could include in that, I know it's out there, the car counts for that intersection. We can do that, yep. And maybe toss in the intersection of Old Wire and Old Missouri as well, so we have a good idea of
 Mr. Mayor, one final comment, and that is I failed to mention earlier that I was absolutely stunned that an attorney would raise procedural issues in tonight's council meeting.
 Okay, anything else? I guess we'll hold it on the first reading right, but just leave it right there for two weeks and see what shakes out. All right, that concludes our business. Susan, do you have an announcement? I do have one announcement to remind everyone that the bulky waste spring cleanup dates have been set. The first one will be Ward 4, Saturday, April 1st, and if you would just direct people to our website, it's
 It's MacDab Front and Center on the website. So you've got four different pickups, and it's that time of year, spring cleaning time. Thanks. Okay. We're adjourned.