We'd like to call the city council meeting from March 20th, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Bennett? Notch? Here. LaTierre? Present. Smith? Here. Gray? Present. Marsh? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you show them in the plight of the ladies? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business. we have tonight is the nominating committee report. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes, indeed. Once again, we had an incredible pool of applicants, and I want to thank everyone that took the time to apply. If you were not selected today and on this slate, I hope that you'll consider reapplication. There's always a lot of opportunities as we go along, and we certainly have a lot of skilled individuals that we consider for these positions so thank you I recommend the approval of the following slate mayor Jordan recommends the following candidates for appointment to the Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees Janine Perry one term ending 4 1 23 Sally Overby one term ending 4 1 23 For the Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Zachary Renfrow, one unexpired University of Arkansas student living off campus term, ending 9-30-19. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. For the Animal Services Advisory Board, Sharon Randall, one citizen at large term, ending 6-30-21. For Board of Adjustments. Casey Hoffman, one term ending 3-31-21. Richard Kaufman, one term ending 3-31-21. William Finer, one term ending 3-31-21. For the Civil Service Commission, DeAndre Jones, one unexpired citizen at large term ending 3-31-24. For the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, Bill Hairston, one term ending 3-31-23. For the Planning Commission, Tom Brown, one term ending 3-31-21. Porter Winston, one term ending 3-31-21. Matthew Hoffman, one term ending 3-31-21. And Robert Sharp, one unexpired term ending 3-31-19. For the Telecommunications Board, Benjamin Adkins, one term ending 6-30-22. For the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, Will Dockery, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 12-31-19. And for the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, Deborah Humphrey, one unexpired resident term ending 12-28-18. Okay, Sarah. I move we accept the nominations as read. Kyle. Second. Okay, before we vote on the... appointments I do want to take regarding a few emails I've received today over the last few days I will open it up for some public comment on the any appointments that the public would like to address tonight so that being said I'll open it up for public comment everybody gets a five-minute limit you have to keep your comments to me don't engage anybody on the council staff or anybody in the public One time at the mic, you can be brought back if a council member wants to ask you questions and give us your name and address and away we go. Who'd like to be first? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. All right, we have a motion and a second to accept the nominees of the nominating committee, correct? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now I assume we've already addressed the Housing Authority Board resident appointment. Is that correct? That was number two on my list here. Yes. We're all done with that, right? All right. Number three, the Federal Mobility Plan, final report presentation and draft implementation strategy. Thank you, Mayor. Just about two years ago, the city entered into a contract with Nelson Nygaard Consulting to develop a multimodal transportation master plan. Since that time, we've gone through... Many, many community outreach workshops, public pop-up workshops online. So lots and lots of community interaction. And you'll see that throughout the plan that you'll see tonight. Tonight we have our consultant here. Jeff Tumlin is here to present the final report. So he'll go through kind of all of the chapters of the report and get to some recommendations. The last couple of days has been a very important part of this entire plan. It's been time spent. staff workshop looking at metrics and how to score, how to use those metrics to score projects. You'll see the results of some of that. We did not get complete on that, so we don't have a complete set of projects. There's still a lot of work to be done on that, and I'll talk a little more about that after Jeff gets done speaking, but I think that the key thing tonight is to consider those metrics, if those are the correct ones, if we're missing anything. So we're certainly looking for feedback on that part of it. But after Jeff has completed, there certainly will be time for questions. I will come back up and talk a little bit about additional steps. that the staff needs to take and working with the council as we complete the report and move on to the implementation phase. So with that, Jeff, come on up. Jeff Tumlin with Nelson-Nygard. Thanks, Chris. Mayor Jordan, members of the council, once again, my name is Jeff Tumlin with Nelson-Nygard. And as I'm sure you've seen, we've got a couple of thick reports in your packet. I'm going to try and cover a lot of material very quickly. Okay. So the presentation is organized basically according to the chapters of the report, ending with some implementation recommendations. I'll start with vision goals and objectives. THIS PLAN IS BUILT UPON A STRONG FOUNDATION OF A LOT OF WORK THE CITY HAS DONE OVER THE LAST DECADE. WHAT IT TRIES TO DO IS TO INTEGRATE ALL OF THOSE DOCUMENTS AND GIVE YOU A SENSE OF HOW TO PRIORITIZE YOUR LIMITED RESOURCES IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THE LARGEST GOALS OF THE CITY. SO IT TAKES A LOT OF WORK THAT HAS ALREADY BEEN DONE AND INTRODUCES A FAIRLY SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF NEW REQUIREMENTS. potential projects and potential work and evaluates all of them against each other using, as Chris said, a set of comprehensive metrics. SO ALL OF THIS IS ROOTED IN YOUR OWN POLICY ADOPTION FROM THESE PAST DOCUMENTS, RECOGNIZING THAT TRANSPORTATION IS AN INVESTMENT STRATEGY THAT HELPS THE CITY ACHIEVE ITS LARGER SAFETY AND EQUITY AND QUALITY OF LIFE AND OTHER GOALS. SO MUCH OF THE DOCUMENT IS ROOTED IN THE PUBLIC VALUES THAT ARE IN YOUR POLICY DOCUMENTS AND THAT WE HEARD A LOT OF FROM THE PUBLIC. AS CHRIS MENTIONED, WE DID EXTENSIVE PUBLIC OUTREACH BOTH ASKING PEOPLE WHAT THEIR VALUES ARE, WHAT ARE THE THINGS THAT WE SHOULD BE INVESTING IN WITH THE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM. GIVEN THE FACT THAT WE HAVE LIMITED RESOURCES, HOW WOULD THE PUBLIC ALLOCATE THOSE RESOURCES IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS? AND THEN ASK THEM TO RESPOND TO SOME DRAFT PROJECT AND PROGRAM IDEAS AND HELP US TO PRIORITIZE. That then led us into a needs and opportunities set of data analyses, listening to what the public said were their priorities. We looked into the data and found all kinds of interesting things, lots of concerns. Many of the concerns were about relatively small gaps in the system, gaps for every mode of transportation. but also some interesting opportunities, like the fact that our GIS analysis found that adding just one and a quarter miles of new sidewalk in key locations would unlock many previous investments that you'd already made and connect neighborhoods to each other. Also the fact that about 25% of your workers travel less than three miles to work, and that's just their trips to work. That doesn't count the 80% of trips that are non-work related. In Fayetteville, even more so than most cities, most trips here are very short. and offer the opportunity for transitioning to walk or bike or transit trips in order to create additional roadway capacity for those longer trips that will always be by car. So this led us to focus on gap analyses, looking at the data for where travel patterns were, where there were missing links in the pedestrian network, particularly where there were missing links that could unlock opportunities for children to walk to school. We heard that as a key priority from the public. THIS THEN LED US INTO MUCH MORE DETAILED ANALYSIS IN EACH WARD, LOOKING AT SPECIFIC MISSING LINKS THAT WERE RELATIVELY AFFORDABLE TO FILL IN ORDER TO CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR WHOLE NEIGHBORHOODS TO BE ABLE TO WALK TO THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOL. SO FOR EACH WARD, WE LOOKED AT SPECIFIC SOLUTIONS AND ANALYZED THOSE AND PROVIDED SOME RECOMMENDATIONS AND FED THAT INTO THE PROJECT LIST. We also looked extensively at overall travel patterns to look for opportunities to unlock the potential for bike ridership by filling gaps in the bike network. We looked at roadway size and compared that to roadway volumes to identify locations where there were more traffic lanes than you needed. So those lanes could be repurposed to become sidewalks that were missing, to become bike facilities, or to become stormwater opportunities, or to reroute traffic from someplace else. In addition to looking at roadway narrowings, we looked at roadway widenings in order to achieve the larger goals of the city. One set of widenings is the arterial loop, which in addition to being very valuable for improving motor vehicle speed and reducing delay for motorists, You'll also see on this map the blue line running up and down in the middle and the dark blue line running east-west in the middle. That says that the arterial loop takes significant traffic off of both College Avenue and MLK, creating opportunities for rethinking the rights-of-way on the streets to make them more friendly to not just bikes and pedestrians and transit, but also to new development. We looked at other roadway connections and examined how it redistributed traffic. Each of them had relatively modest impact. The arterial loop really had some significant changes. And so each of those can be evaluated on their own terms. Finally, we then looked at a conceptual level at your entire street grid in order to think about street typology in a way that could lead the city towards a more sophisticated design. And we crafted conceptual cross-sections for each of those street types that then led towards thinking about more detailed corridor analyses. So for seven key streets covering kind of various corners of the city, we took all of the previous work, combined it together to do design work, traffic analysis work, and evaluation across all modes of transportation in order to make some recommendations about some potentially significant key projects that benefit all modes of transportation. Finally, we've been working over the last month on next steps and implementation. And as Chris said, a key part of that is a project prioritization tool that some of you saw yesterday evening in the council workshop where we talked about performance metrics. So this is a relatively simple Excel-based tool that staff will own and they know how to manipulate and move it around. And you can see at the left column, I don't expect you to be able to read that type. BUT THE LEFT COLUMN, AND THIS GOES ON PRETTY FAR, IS THE CAPITAL PROJECTS THAT WE'RE CONSIDERING FOR THE CITY FOR THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS, INCLUDING WHERE THEY'RE LOCATED, WHAT TYPE OF PROJECT THEY ARE, AND WHICH MODES THEY MOST BENEFIT. And then across the top in each of those columns are the different transportation performance metrics that we would use for evaluating these projects. And as you can see, they're broken down into different categories. So one key category is health and safety, and there's a variety of metrics underneath that. Another is economy. A third is environment. A fourth is equity, including a focus that we've added in addition to children, including emphasis on older adults and the disabled. And finally, a category around deliverability and funding. So each of these metrics can be weighted by staff or the council or the public. You're welcome to play around with how important each of these are to you, both within a bucket, but also how important the buckets are relative to each other. So you may decide that economy is more important than environment, or health and safety is more important than deliverability. All of that then results in, at the far right, both a total aggregate score for each project, as well as, once it's divided by project cost, a benefit-to-cost ratio score. And you can sort this in any way you want. You can sort it alphabetically. You can sort it by project type. You can sort it by how well it impacts the environment. You can score it by total score, and you can also sort it by benefit-to-cost ratio. All of this is not designed to be your capital improvement program. It's designed to provide better information to you and to staff about which projects have the greatest positive impact on the things that your community members and you all care about. It will still require some judgment for making decisions about what projects you fund and which ones you don't. But very importantly, this tool is designed to build trust with the public. The public needs to know that their tax dollars are being spent wisely, that you're using limited tax dollars in order to create the greatest possible benefit to the community. Some of your community members will prioritize one thing over another, and this allows them to see in balance how well your capital improvement program is doing for the things that they care about and for the city as a whole. And finally, I just want to talk about some final next steps. THROUGHOUT THIS DOCUMENT, A KEY THEME THAT HAS COME UP AGAIN AND AGAIN IS A FOCUS ON GAP CLOSURES FOR EACH MODE OF TRANSPORTATION, FOR WALKING, FOR BIKING, FOR DRIVING, FOR TRANSIT. THESE PROJECTS TEND TO GIVE YOU THE GREATEST BANG FOR THE BUCK. We've also discovered that there is some key data that is missing that would be helpful in evaluation. One is a complete inventory of accessibility for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, things like corner curb ramps and sidewalk condition. Another key category is an up-to-date inventory of roadway pavement condition and also of sidewalk condition. So we know some things about all of the above, but it would be helpful to know a little bit more about each of these categories in order to help allocate funding. We're also recommending that the city start to develop a multi-year maintenance and capital budgeting approach so that you can do a little bit more thinking across your capital and operating budgets, so that you can do life cycle costing and plan for some really big transformative projects that may require that you save up for them for a couple of years. There's some big transformative projects that are recommended in here that will require major studies. There, we've done some cursory work. These projects look good, but there's a lot of additional work that needs to be done before you go off and build some of this. We also recommend that the data analyses that were done throughout this work, and I've shown you maybe 5% of the analytical work that is done, ALL OF THAT INFORMATION CAN BE PUT UP ON GIS AND INTO THE CITY'S WEBSITE AND IT CAN BE ORGANIZED IN A WAY THAT THE PUBLIC CAN UNDERSTAND IT THROUGH SERVICES LIKE OPEN GOV. I THINK A CITY LIKE FAYETTEVILLE THAT WORKS SO HARD TO BUILD TRANSPARENCY WITH ITS PUBLIC WOULD BE WISE TO INVEST IN PUTTING THIS INFORMATION OUT. And finally, our hope is that all of this information, and particularly the information that is building trust with the public, that you're spending their dollars wisely, should be helpful in preparing a transportation bond that will pass muster with the voters should you decide to put that on the ballot. And with that, I think I'm turning it over to Chris, and we can take questions. So I just want to establish the expectation for the council. The report is done. All of the work is done. But we are by no means done with implementing these recommendations. So what we'll be working on over the next few weeks and possibly months is an implementation plan, specific tasks, specific steps. that will get us to these recommendations. As an example, we're now looking at an RFP for somebody to come and basically drive all of our streets, give us a detailed pavement analysis, and so that we can use that. And we'll do at the same time the sidewalk inventory. So those are the kind of steps that are tasks and work that needs to be done in order to reach our goals here for these recommendations. The scoring worksheet that Jeff showed you is by no means complete. We still have a lot of... We have a lot of input that we need about types of projects, what projects we're missing, programming these additional projects. There's a lot of work to be done, so we know that we have several months of work to begin putting this program together as we look toward a future bond issue. So with that, I'll say this is the last time that the consultant will be here to make presentations. So this is your last shot to pepper him with questions. So they're the experts. So if you have questions, please fire away, and we'll try to answer them. What questions do we have? Nobody's got any questions. Okay, Matt. Yeah, thank you. I haven't just gotten to say I haven't had a chance to review everything, so just a summary question. If you could, having studied the city, what do you think are our biggest weaknesses we need to watch out for as we try to implement this? What would stop it from being successful, even if we agreed with every part of it? I think if the public disagreed with you, that would stop it. So potentially the greatest weakness is the ongoing trust building and education with the public, that your implementation strategy is reflective of their values. Okay. What other questions do we have? Well, I've got one or two. I want us to be sure that it's included in the transportation plan. I work with the AIDS-friendly group, which I'm now part of. And we want to be sure that we cover all the AIDS-related issues. in this city. I know there's a lot of folks that tell me they can't walk the trails and they would like to be able to have access to the trails and I think we don't want to exclude them from this transportation plan. So I wanted to make that point. Relatively clear, I asked you a question, is that how high is that on the list? I mean, where are we on that? So if you can look at the screen right now, you can see under the equity section, It may be hard to read that, but under equity, the first two are about children, low-income children. And then there is, on the last two, is access for older adults and access for people with disabilities. So, the, what, and what you can't see right above this, there's a row on top that is the waiting row. So, the portion of this tool that the council owns is everything above the black line. So you all need to tell us what are the things that are key differentiators for getting to yes on whether a project gets funded or getting to no. And how important is that relative to the other things on this list? So one of the things that I'm hoping that staff will do for you once we finish inputting staff's data, which I think Kevin is probably still working on right now in the back. is we can let you and the public play around with this. So as you change the weighting, it automatically changes both the total score as well as the benefit-cost rating, and you can resort projects accordingly. So it's really up to you. What's below the bars, it's just technical evaluation, that staff's job. But you own everything above that black line. Okay. Hold on. And so there's going to be much more public comment in this process. Well, that's a question for you. So what we did is we interpreted the very extensive public comment that we heard. Just saying. Yeah. Thank you. I don't think we have to worry about the public. To Jeff's point, the public has been involved in this process the entire time. So this initial list and it has come from the hundreds or thousands of people who have weighed in and information to even create these 21. factors, the council that participated last night in this had a chance to review those for the first time. I think the point that Jeff is making is if the council feels like, because currently they're fairly equally weighted across the 21 points, but if the council said, you know, economic development and health and safety are going to get more weight. For instance, that's where your policy direction above the line determines, because right now they're fairly equally weighted between the 21 factors. We're loading the projects as staff, we're scoring them underneath, but the weighting, which would change, will be your responsibility to do on this tool. That's right. And I will caution you. You can see just from this chart up here that the projects that have a lot of green boxes, dark green boxes, they're pretty green all the way across the board. And what that means is that you can change the weightings pretty significantly, but it does not have that big of an impact on the projects that make it above the funding line versus those that are below the funding line. The best projects score well in many categories. So we did a lot of playing around with weightings earlier, trying to think, well, you know, how, you know, based upon public input, they were clear about their priorities. Have we reflected that? And we moved the weights around, but it didn't actually change anything about what got funded. How many people participated in the input sessions? Do you have a number? We have many thousands of individual comments. At each round of public comment, there were between about 250 and 500 people that participated. And that was three rounds in public plus multiple rounds of WikiMap comments, online survey, and a variety of other means. So you could say there was a few thousand? A few thousand individual comments, yeah. All right. Anybody have any... Oh, John, I'm sorry. Hi, Mr. Mayor. Hello, Tom, Jeff, Tomlin. I'm concerned about personal freedom and liberty. Let me back up and say this. If you had an unlimited budget, and you know what we have here in Fayetteville, what would you do? How would you change our existing street grid, our existing sidewalk grid? What would you do to improve? What is an improvement in your mind? Unlimited budget. Do anything you want to. Well, so I would argue, actually, that that shouldn't be up to me, that it should be... So, you know, transportation investments are... an investment strategy to achieve a lot of larger goals. So mobility in and of itself isn't a public good. It helps you to achieve your health and equity and economic development goals And it's really up to local values about how to prioritize those. My recommendation, looking at the data, is there is a lot of opportunity to unlock previous investments by focusing on several small gap closures. There's also, for a couple of very big projects, an opportunity to build upon Fayetteville's unique economic base by transforming parts of the city that are seeing declining values and aren't supporting the current economy. So, for example, College Avenue is north of north. It's a really, really interesting opportunity. It would be a very big project, but a project where the purpose of the mobility investment would be to unlock the economic future of the city. I just don't want to adopt a new program that would force people a square peg in a round hole. Some people might be happy to drive their car to work. I don't want them to feel guilty for driving their car to work. Oh, absolutely not. Good. No, I mean, it was clear, and that came out very clear in all the public comments, that nobody wanted to force anyone out of their car. Right. Okay. But it was also clear, including from people who were motorists, that there was an interest in more choices. and safer choices for all residents and also a recognition that It might be more cost-effective to invest in Providing opportunities for some people to be able to walk or bike or take transit in order to allow other people who need to drive to be able to drive that that you know walk and bike investments can provide a really strong benefit to those who want to drive and But it all works as a system. MR. The input I received on this very issue was from an older lady who was concerned about access. MR. Absolutely. MR. As we discussed in a previous meeting about parking in downtown, you know, the parking that's closest to the venue, you can charge more for as you move away from it. It gets cheaper and cheaper and then maybe free. But she didn't like that because she's elderly and she can't afford to pay for parking, and that would put her way away from the venue. Now, I don't know that I have the wisdom to figure out how you solve that unless you just have a parking lot for people 60 and older. But even that, you're basing it on age, and that's probably illegal, some benefit. But anyway, that was her concern. I'm not here for some senior citizens who want access to their trails and they're not able to. Sure. And rightfully so. I mean, everybody wants to be included. Yeah. And I, like you, Mayor, am rapidly approaching that class. I'm there, John. I understand. I probably am too. I'm just not admitting it. I'm in denial. Anyway, thank you for your time. My pleasure. Okay. Now, any other questions? Sure. I had this one down here. In regard to what John was talking about, and I don't have this all memorized to heart, but I believe there's somewhere, and you can help me out with this, it says that if we could just reduce traffic, the number of trips driven by, what was it, 10%? It's a really small number. I was surprised at how small it was. that it would make a huge difference. So, you know, we do that through multimodal transportation, walking, biking, public transportation, that sort of thing. So, you know, I was really impressed with this and then actually learned a lot reading through it. So that's just my comment. Yes. Thank you. Anybody else before we move on? Okay, so I'm sure we'll be... Taking more input and moving along with it, you'll have another report, I'm sure. Thank you so much. It's been an honor working for all of you. Thank you all. Mayor, I do want to thank Jeff. who took on this project. We had some changes in staff members involved, and he picked this up. It really got us to the finish line, and we wanted to personally thank him for his efforts in that. I think the entire team and council members that were involved in working with him. So thank you, Jeff, for your work. We still have not... finished up the documents. There's still more to be done, correct? The work now is to us and to you. Okay. All right. All right. Well, let's move along to the consent agenda then. On the consent agenda number one, approval of the March 6, 2018, sit council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of annual software maintenance from MSI Consulting Group LLC for virtual justice software used by the District Court Police Department and the City Prosecutor Division in the amount of $21,600 plus applicable taxes and to approve a 5% project contingency in the... event additional licenses are needed. Number three, resolution authorized contract with Northwest Arkansas Community College for continuous process improvement training program for development services department staff in an amount not to exceed $40,000 in approved budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. We have a second. Adela? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? With a seconder, please put their motion in. Okay, we will. Thank you. You're very welcome. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. I'm moving along to unfinished business number one. Or if the reason that property described rezoning petition RZN 17-6034 for approximately 4.40 acres located at 2468 North Crossover Road from RSF to residential single family to units breaker to NSL neighborhood services limited. We're there, right? Or do we need to entertain motion to the third and final reading? I'm already there. We did that to table it to see if there was anything news or anything new on this. No, no, Mayor. Anybody? Any of the council heard from anybody? Okay. Mayor, I'd kind of like for the applicant to come forward. Oh, I'm going to. Oh, okay. Excuse me. I'm just... Sorry about that. I'll get to that, and then we'll get to public comment as well. Okay, thank you. All right. Would the applicant like to say something tonight? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm Jerry Jones. Council members, during our last meeting, it was mentioned that not enough marketing had been done to promote the sales of lots in Linwood Estates. So my agent, Mr. Rick Shelton, sent out a lengthy report detailing Coldwell Bankers' effort to market and sell lots. Each of you received an email copy. It also included our collaboration with Dr. and Mrs. Reynolds to sell our properties together. Mr. Shelton attached a four-color glossy flyer showing our two properties joined together. I also sent a corrected statement regarding whether any commercial bids have been made on the property. Mr. Jody Hendricks at that time put up a sizable deposit to buy one and a half lots to build a CrossFit gym under a conditional use permit. That was denied. At the last meeting, the measure was tabled to allow interested residential buyers to come forward. No one has come forth at this time or contacted me to discuss buying any lots. I believe that this clearly shows that no one wants to build a residence on Crossover Road. When Mr. Brown, north of us, decides to sell his land, it is zoned RO. Whatever is built there will be some sort of commercial project, further reducing our chances to sell lots in Linwood Estates to build a home on it. As I've said before, there isn't much land there to build on, and whatever is built, I believe, will make Crossover Road more walkable. I want to see our subdivision built and not just sit here any longer. It's been a very long time. The staff, planning commissioners, and most of you agree that Neighborhood Services Limited is a good rezone request. Not one thing has changed since the last meeting except two weeks have passed. We would appreciate it if you would please vote on this tonight in support of Neighborhood Services Limited and get this behind us. We do appreciate and would appreciate your vote and support concerning Neighborhood Services Limited. Thank you. All right. Do we have any questions for that? Okay. Thank you. No questions? No questions. What public comment do we have on this? Everybody gets one turn to microphone. I'm an insolence council member brings back. Keep your comments addressed to me don't engage anybody in the public and the staff or city council and okay, we'd like to be first name and address. good evening my name is paul henry 2885 east township i'm back again because i have concerns and to pair i use a word i'm concerned about safe choices as a on the planning for our roadways um the 4.4 acres represents a continuation of spot zoning and the spot zone here where we do with the last piece of segment on the corner and that's my concern what will happen the lack of a plan is my biggest problem City of 2030 gives us some clear guidance that this should be a residential area. My understanding was the two weeks passage was to try to develop using the stub out from Candlewood. I didn't realize there was for an offer. I just drove down 71B where we have stoplights every block and we have a controlled access with speeds of 35 and 265 is not controlled. There's only one stoplight every block. distance and it goes very fast. And if safety is our biggest concern, then this is going to be a concern for safety. And it's, again, a continuation of the spot zoning. It's just a bad planning. It's not a good choice. It's not a safe choice. But I thank you for all your time and your patience because this is time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Ted Wade, 2863 East Township Street. Okay. Mayor, I paused a great deal today in considering whether it was of value for me to come speak again after four consecutive times. I thought about, well, am I spending my time, am I spending your time well in considering the issue that's before us? Over the last weeks, I've driven around Fettville considering this issue relative to obviously trying to find a solution for Mr. Jones and a solution for us, the homeowners in Covington and Candlewood and Edenbrook where we're at. I understand that he has a piece of property to sell. I understand that it's difficult sometimes in looking into the future and understanding what will be the impact and taking any consideration. other homeowners in the area that may or may not be there in the future and what that means as we've spoke to in the domino effect. What I do know in driving around Fedville and in my own personal business, which is expanding right now, is that there's a lot of commercial property available to lease in Fedville. I had over 16 people bid on the new space that we're looking for in my own personal business. So just adding commercial space for the sake of creating an opportunity to sell land doesn't necessarily fit with the right thing to do in that regard, in my opinion. The other thing is to stand back and talk about one of the things I believe that was mentioned in the past is we need more one-room apartments. I also got on the phone call 16 apartments in the last couple of weeks, and all of them had space available. So the question is, what are we making available for the public and the considerations of the whole, okay, not the one. I'll go back, and I'll be redundant here in what Mr. Henry just said, is safety is a great concern. It's really fortuitous that your transportation gentleman obviously mentioned that in great depth about intersections and the flow of traffic and the speed of traffic getting around the city versus through the center of the city where they get slowed down and get hung up. and it concerns me greatly about the school children that travel in and across that intersection going up into McNair and Vandegrift. That is something that weighs heavily on my mind and should on yours, and I know it does. And lastly, understanding that if we find ourselves in a situation a couple of years from now and that whole section of property from the corner down through Mr. Jones's property and then on north, all becomes commercial, is what are the residents in my neighborhood gonna be looking at right across from our house, and what will that do and impact our property values? What's it gonna do for us, as we talked about the other night, relative to having to potentially put up a gate to keep people off of our private drive, which is something that we don't wanna do, but could be forced to do. These are all the things that you've heard. I know I'm being redundant, okay? But I'm speaking from a sense and sensibility, and that's what I'd ask you to consider in your vote. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. It's time for us to vote. Is there any final comments from the council? Everybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. All right. Moving along to number two. In order to amend 74.01, application of regulations to add a definition of roadway. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading tonight. Okay. Mayor. So moved, Mayor. Okay. Do I have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Did you all put your... No, I can't see anybody. Okay. Thank you, Dallin. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Lature? Yes. Smith? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In order to amend Section 7401, application of regulations to add a definition of roadway... And Mr. Mayor, I was requested by Councilmember Gray to provide another possible Section 2, which would in fact limit the highest fine for improperly being in the roadway to $25. So let me hand out that proposal. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. SECOND. So this is our First Amendment, correct? Yes, it would be if it is not the first amendment. Okay. All right. What's the council member's thoughts on this? I guess we need a motion and a second. Don't we just start it off? It's pretty simple. It simply adds subsection C to the ending part of that Chapter 74, pedestrians. Chapter, I mean, Section 74.99 is a penalty part, and it adds subsection C. Whoever violates Section 7403, 0405 shall be fined not more than $25. That is the proposal before you. Okay. Adele. Mayor, I move that we add this amendment. Okay. Sarah. Second. Okay. Now we can discuss it. So what's everybody's thoughts? And then we'll take some public comment on the amendment, folks, okay? Nobody's got nothing to say? Sarah, I'm sorry. No. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. If we don't adopt this amendment, what is the fine... Mr. Williams? Mr. Potential fine, it's always not more than, and the penalty for particular subsections which do not have a fine already stated would be up to $500. Okay. You realize if our objective is to move people away from the median for public safety and someone's making money by being close to the median or being on the median, they may just see the fine as a cost of doing business. If they're making more than $25 by being there, they would just pay the $25 and stay there. So I think our fine has to be sufficiently large not to damage anyone, but to give everyone incentive to stay back out of harm's way. That's the whole purpose of this definition is public safety. And I'm big on liberty and freedom, okay? I'm not real big on seatbelts. I am big on seatbelts. My car doesn't move unless everybody in the car is fastened, okay? Okay. My children will testify to that and all my friends. But I don't like the government telling me I have to buckle my seatbelt, all right? So you might say my reasoning is inconsistent here. I'm saying we're gonna impose our idea of public safety on someone who would like to take the risk. But realize that person in this situation is not bearing all the risk him or herself. If someone were to hit a pedestrian and there would be children in that car, that would be an extremely traumatic experience for the children or for the adults of hitting a pedestrian. We want to protect them as well as the pedestrians from that possibility. So if $25 is enough to give them incentive to stay away, that's fine. I can support the amendment. But I'm afraid it might just be seen as a cost of doing business and pay the $25 and keep doing what you're doing. So it needs to be sufficiently large to give people incentive to move back away from danger. That's what I like to see. Yeah, Kit. The reason that Councilmember Gray and I discussed this and decided to have a $25 fine is we feel like that is quite sufficient. And if possibly something would happen, as Mr. Latour has stated, that somebody started getting fines and they just continued to stay out there, then I think we can cross that bridge when we get to it. And you certainly are right to come back at that point in time and say, well, that fine is not enough. And so for second and third offenses, it must be higher or something like that. But at this point in time, this is... I certainly agree with City Council Latour. This is a safety issue. This is certainly something that we want to try to protect those people who would be endangering themselves and others by crossing traffic and getting into a very narrow median not designed for pedestrians. But on the other hand, I think we want to show that it is not going to be harsh. The police officers are not going to impose... this harshly on anyone and of course it always goes to the court and the court would never have imposed a 500 fine but I think it probably shows good faith on the city council's part to limit the fine to 25 if something happens in the future and that is shown to be ineffective then I think we could revisit that area okay all right any anybody else Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody, please stay with the amendment, which is the fine part. I'm sure we'll get to the overall ordinance here in a moment. Does anybody have any comments? I'm sure you know the rules, or do I need to run those by you again? Everybody gets one turn at the microphone, you get five minutes. If all your comments are addressed to me, don't engage anybody on the council or the staff or anybody in the public. Stay on topic. Give us your name and address, and stay with the amendment with me, folks, okay? All right. Who would like to be first? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I now live at 2070 East Manila Link in Fayetteville on the east side. And I want to say that I agree with Councilman LaTour that I think the 25 is insufficient. I think part of it would have to do with the information is insufficient. broadcast to the public as to what the fine would be whether or not this is something that can be very readily known and that that would give them reason to reconsider standing on the corner. Thank you. It's not the corner now, it's in the meeting. Everybody's got a right to stand on the corner. That was done by the Supreme Court. Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Rob Qualls. I am at 2140 John Paul Road. I'm representing Fort Fayetteville tonight, a local civil rights organization. I do appreciate the idea of lowering the limit. I think that could reduce the potential... hardship on someone who is actually in need and maybe breaking this ordinance. My concern, one of the things I wanted to talk about is the possibility of maybe having you know a first contact warning or some way to make sure people are notified. I think that there's been some discussion about signage. We can get into signage when that's the topic. But, you know, if you're truly broke, $25 might as well be $500. If you're truly asking for food and for money to pay for a hotel or to buy medicine, $25 is still quite a bit. So I certainly understand the need The purpose for asking people to move, but I think that, you know, a lot of the comments from when the chief was here, when from police was spoken, was that, you know, the first thing an officer would probably do is go and speak to them and ask them to move or make some kind of attempt to inform them of the law. And so if that's the case, I would like to see some provision to take the monetary fine off for at least the first contact with an individual. that's all I have for now thank you yes sir with many of traffic things there are we need another amendment on the amendment to do I think maybe the chief might come in Yeah, I just want to make sure everybody understands, any time a new ordinance goes into effect, and I'll use the recent smoking in the parks, we always give a 30-day grace period from the time an ordinance goes into effect. So any time anything changes, we would not take any enforcement action of any kind for at least 30 days. So you'd be giving them warnings or advice but not an actual ticket? That's correct. Okay. Okay. I might just also add, since we talked about parking, that that's the same discretion that the police uses, our enforcement officers use on first-time items. It didn't need to be written in the ordinance to be able to do that. It needed to be a practice of the policy. So I think that discretion is available already. I will have to admit that's not exactly in the – yes. Well, thank you for bringing that up. How does that suit with everybody? I mean, do we need some kind of vote or what? There would have to be a vote to amend. There's a motion on the floor to amend. Well, I know there's a motion on the floor to amend, but I'm talking about the warranted end of it. Is that just something we'll just do internally? I think that's much better to be done administratively, as the police chief has said. It's very difficult to come and say, well, you'll never get a ticket the first time. Then how are we going to keep track? You know, 10 years from now, somebody says, well. This is the first time I've ever done it, and unless we have good records back, we never know. And so that would be putting a burden on the police when I think that I can—I trust our police to act properly and carefully on there. They realize this is an attempt— to make our city more safe not to find anybody and so I don't really think we need anything like that I think we can trust our our police and our chief of police here to do the right thing and try to make sure that that's gonna be safe and and not just to start handing out citations left and right just because potentially there is a violation. I think the chief said earlier that when they saw people there, they just wanted to move them to a safer location, to the side of the road, to the corner, instead of standing out there in a dangerous median. So I really don't think that we need anything further. I do think that reducing it to $25 sends out the good message that we are not trying to be punitive. We're trying to look out for the safety of everybody. All right. Council Member Marsh. Thank you. I do notice in the amendment language it says, shall be fined not more than $25. So that I believe gives some allowance for a smaller fine or no fine as appropriate. So I'm comfortable with that language. And like anything in the community, you know, we pass these ordinances. we see how they work. And if they don't work, we change them, or if we find a way to make them work better, we do seize that opportunity. So I feel much more comfortable about this today than I did two weeks ago. My question kind of ties in with that a little bit. I like the idea of if we're going to have a fine that it is a fairly small one, but I wondered if the shall be not more, does that include if someone gets a fine and doesn't pay it? Like when I get a parking ticket, if I don't pay it in a certain amount of time, then I it goes up in price. Would this happen in this case or would we... That penalty provision in parking is actually written into the code. Now, it doesn't mean that if you don't pay a fine, well, then that's another offense. So, I mean, it can increase if someone does not follow the law and refuses to pay the fine. And, of course, as Councilmember Marsh said, this is not more than $2,500, just like the $500 is not more than $500. But I thought a much lower ceiling made more sense. Okay. All right. Now I'm going to go back to public comment. Does anyone have any other public comment on the amendment? Okay, now I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Fletcher. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, now we're back to the original ordinance, correct? Yes. Yes, it's now been amended to what I just handed out to everyone that's in front of you right now. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have among counsel on the ordinance? Is that good? All right. So we're on the second reading? We're on. I'm just trying to figure out what I need to take public comment. Yes, we are on the second reading. Okay, I'm going to take public comment right now on the ordinance as a whole. Okay? Yeah, as amended. As amended. Okay. I don't guess we need to do the rules again, do we, Rob? I'm sure you have those. I think I can probably handle this. You can probably do them for me now. I appreciate it. Rob, could you pull the mic up closer to your mouth? Absolutely, yes. Thank you. I've already told you who I am. We agree that the intent of this change is safety. We're not questioning anyone's motives here. We acknowledge the compassion, generosity and leadership of our city and believe it's second to none in this state or region when it comes to taking care of those who are experiencing homelessness or poverty. We also trust police officers and department leadership. That's not something that is in question here with our group. We however do disagree with the solution that's being proposed in this amendment. We're grateful that our city council members and staff have worked toward a comprehensive solution since the last meeting. There's been discussion not tonight, but during the agenda meeting last week about working towards some solutions with signage like we do with many other things like parking, like crosswalks, like. um other roadway oriented um ordinances to let people know what the law is and what is expected in each location um that signage will actually help people get help if they need to it could feature the uh kind of ways two one one number so if someone legitimately does have a need and they're in public or near those popular intersections um they can get help um also um give people some information in lieu of giving to a panhandler or giving to someone can go to a website or text a number to donate. I know that Mr. Moore has looked into that. I know that those processes are underway. So I really do appreciate all the work that's been done there. We also realize that. working through these processes with the state to get permission on say highways and setting up the systems can take some time And we've discussed this tonight, but we are also concerned at first notice Maybe many people will get would be when the police officer is present. These are often folks that won't have access to newspaper Print or online online services things like that. So we're just going to we don't want anybody surprised By that we don't want those interactions to turn into you know a loitering fine or anything um worse than that um so what we're asking is um we'd like to see this ordinance delayed or amended so to allow the system to be in place before the law takes effect it realizes the 30-day period i'm not sure if that would be adequate or not but we just want to put that out there that we believe that the the solution we've come together is a good one uh we would just like it all to kind of be timed close together, if at all possible. Not really putting the cart before the horse. You normally don't want to prohibit anything, whether it's parking or standing or walking, without some kind of notice there at those locations. That's all I have. Thank you so much. Okay. So what you're saying is you want to hold it until we find out one from the state or some of the other? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. I can probably address a little bit of the signage. I would have to go to the state, which we will, and see if they give us permission. I guess the thing that I want the council to understand, the public to understand, they could say no. And then so... Would it be back to your way? And I should say that we didn't put an emergency clause on this. Potentially we could have because it's for the peace and health and safety of our citizens, but we did not, and therefore the ordinance itself would not go into effect for 31 days after it's passed. And then you'd have another 30 days, I think, from the chief there saying that once it's in effect, there's still going to be... kind of on probation with people and giving them warnings but not doing any tickets. So it's already got about a 60-day hold in it before any tickets are going to be written. Right. So we've got 30 days to set up the system, and I'll find out something for the state. I can probably find out something in the next few days. Okay. And then it's going to be another 30 days before any kind of tickets are – I mean, once it passes, it'll be 31 days before it goes into effect, and then we've got another 30 days before there's going to be any time left. So it's like a 60-day period. So – Thank you. Oh, I thought you – okay. Y'all are tricky tonight. You keep popping up there and then disappearing on me. Any other public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Quick clarification, what reading are we on? This is, we're on second reading. We'd have to suspend rules and go to third and final reading, I believe. If I kept up right. Okay, well, I'm ready to vote tonight and I'll explain why. I'm deeply appreciative of staff and the research they've done for the suggestions that came from the community and that I joined in on. The reason I'm ready to vote tonight is I think it's really clear that the ordinance has been proposed is all about safety and it's not about panhandling. I think it's clear that it's content neutral. The proof in the pudding for me is the fact that we are not doing anything at all to prevent people from panhandling on the corners of intersections. We're only talking about the middle of the roadways. For me, that is just clear as day that this is a content neutral ordinance. However, the reason that I've made the suggestions and tried to join in on the community suggestions that we have an alternative program is because it's also clear that what's proposed will have will impact people who are struggling more than it will impact other people in the community. Even though that's not the intent, I think we can all be clear and honest with ourselves that it will impact them more. And so that's why I requested that we establish some. some extra programs. On that note, I hope the state allows us to do some of these things in the middle of the roadways but even if they don't, I hope we will take what we learned from this and still implement those programs in other places in town because it provides an avenue to help the least fortunate among us regardless of this conversation about this particular proposal. So I'm very supportive. fines and fees. You know, I liken this a lot to our parking fines where we've set a fine in the ordinance and the mayor and his staff have established an administrative policy to give a first ticket free to people on parking and they have the authority to set an administrative policy today how they'll enforce this or escalate this up to actually writing a ticket and asking for a fine. I trust them to do that. And another thing we can do on signs, if it's a city street, then we have control of that, right, Kit? So I can put signs up on a city street. I just can't say I can guarantee you that the state can go along with it. That is correct. Adele, I'm sorry. I just wanted to move, suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading, if Matthew did not do that. Did you do that? He has not. Okay. I will second it then. Thank you. What did you do? Matthew said he did. Okay. Well, I said I didn't, but I'll say he did. That's it. Whose name now? First of all. Right now, before anybody pops up there. Okay. We've got Matthew as the motioner, and we have Adela as the second. Correct? All righty then. You're killing me tonight. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. And since this is a short ordinance and it has been amended, I'm going to read the whole ordinance. An ordinance to amend Section 7401, Application of Regulations to Add a Definition of Roadway and to amend Section 74.99, Penalty to Make the Highest Fine for Improperly Being in the Roadway, $25.00. be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Section 7401 from Application of Regulations to Application of Regulations and Definitions, places the existing wording in Subsection A, and enacts a new Subsection B as follows. Subsection B, as used in this chapter, roadway will mean that part of the right-of-way between the furthest curb or edge of the pavement on one side of the road to the furthest curb or edge of pavement on the other side of the road and shall include any median between lanes of travel. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby amend Section 74.99, Penalty of Chapter 74, Pedestrians, by enacting a new Subsection C as follows. whoever violates section 7403 7404 or 7405 shall be fined not more than 25 dollars. Okay. Chief, do you have anything you want to add? You haven't had a chance to speak. I do feel like I need to add one thing. I want to guarantee you and everybody watching that your police department is very compassionate, okay? It's not going to be our goal to go out there and write everybody a ticket. I can give you example after example after example that you never hear about, the public never hears about, where an officer takes money out of his own pocket to buy people that truly need it, diapers, food. I think I'm thinking of an example where a gentleman had his guitar stolen. He might as well live with the guitar. They went and bought him a guitar, so he continued to make his living. So I just want to make the point that that is not going to be our goal here. If someone is standing in the median, we're going to inform them of the law, and if they're truly in need, we're going to do everything we can to help them. The second thing I want to say is I have a little PowerPoint, but I won't bore you with those details unless somebody needs more convincing. We always like PowerPoints, Chief. Mayor, and I just want to add that... I appreciate Fort Fayetteville and Rob's comments about the understanding of the real intention of this, because I think that the staff took a bit of concern with people thinking that we would target a vulnerable group that we in this administration have gone from zero to over $600,000 of funding for. And what you have to think about is in these locations is to take the panhandle away and put a 12-year-old child selling Girl Scout cookies. or someone at Christmas in December who sees it as an avenue when they see someone selling water to sell gifts that they made for Christmas to earn money. We wouldn't want anyone standing doing this because of the safety aspect that this concerns. And also, we hear stories when people have hit someone. the emotional and mental long-term impact for the driver and the people in the vehicles when that occurs. It's a two-way safety street in this discussion. And we have avenues for this to happen. It's the corners. It's not in a less-than-median-width lane divider, which is what we're talking about in major arterial roads. So it is truly a safety item, and I want us to take it away from one group because when we allow any group to do it, we allow every group to do it. And that's why we're addressing it for anyone in the middle, not just people asking for donations, but anyone doing that in the unsafe roadway. Okay. Adele. Thank you. I know everybody watching thinks the mayor is really sharp tonight. Anyway, okay. All right. Any other final comments from the council? All right. If there's no further comments, I'm sorry, would you please call the roll? Ken. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Fetch. Yes. The chair. Yes. Nip. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. All right. Moving on to new business. Number one, an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6142 for property located at 1898 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described water and sewer right-of-way grant is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, the new sanitary sewer line shall be installed and online prior to the final plat approval. Okay. Yes, Mayor. This is a legacy easement that is no longer needed. It's an area that the Planning Commission has approved a plat for, And staff recommends approval of this vacation. Okay. Any questions from the council on this? Okay. Any public comment about this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Okay. John? Move the suspended rules and go to the second reading. We have a second. Mark? I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Pature? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? An ordinance approved VAC 18-6142 for a property located at 1898 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant. And so, Adela? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Butcher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? In order to approve VAC 18-6142 for property located at 1898 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant. Do we have any final comments from the council on this? Anybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in its own petition RZN 18-6086 for approximately 0.41 acres located at 831 West North Street from our own residential office to RSF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RO Residential Office to RSF-24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, Section 2. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Uh, Garnton. Yeah, Mayor, uh, this property is located at the, uh, northeast corner of North and Storer. It's presently zoned, uh, RO and the request is to go RMF24. Um, it's in a city neighborhood area, uh, in our plan. which encourages a variety of residential and mixed use types it's a proposed forum-based zoning which is consistent with the traditional town form goal the uses the residential uses are very similar the it doesn't allow some of the the office uses but the the reason for the request is for the reduced front yard setbacks which are from zero to 25 feet rather than the ro front yard setback so with that uh planning commission staff recommend approval okay what questions do we have for garner on this that's more than two years i'm not sure any questions any questions regarding that okay what public comment do we have on this okay get right back to the council what solutions to council I move we go to the second reading. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Letourneur? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Located at 834 West North Street from RO residential office to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. And so, Sarah. May we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Fetch. Yes. LeChair. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6086 for approximately 0.41 acres, located at 834 West North Street from RO residential office to RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Any final comments from council? Kyle. Seeing we have no final comments, Chandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hutch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. OK, number three. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition to RZN 18-6092 for approximately 0.23 acres located at 306 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from neighborhood conservation to residential single-family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Gardner. Mayor, this is also a single lot minor change. It's located at the intersection of South and College. It is in the Walker neighborhood plan. It's at the boundary of the downtown plan. The Walker neighborhood plan shows it as a residential property and it's consistent with appropriate infill goals, traditional town form goals. RSF 18 and the neighborhood conservation districts are very similar. The one difference, which is why this request is before you, is that the RSF 18 allows 30 foot frontage for single family development and neighborhood conservation requires 40 feet. With this change, this lot would accommodate two single family. developments with lots of it. So with that, Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. Okay. What questions do we have regarding the mission you always make for the woods and the Sarah? It is, and I've heard no feedback from the community about it. Nothing? Nothing. Okay. Any other questions or anything? All right. What public comment do we have on this? So now I'm bringing back to the council. Second. May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? No. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hutch? Yes. LaTerre? Yes. Ness? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6092 for approximately .23 acres located at 306 South College Avenue. From NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Sarah. May we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Stella. Second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. So I'm going to please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Hutch. Yes. Lature. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6092 for approximately 0.23 acres located at 306 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre. Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, Senator Latourie's call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. March? Yes. Okie dokie. Number four. An ordinance to approve vacation 18-6097 for property located west of Beachwood Avenue and 15th Street to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, if this vacation approval is subject to the following condition, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay, Gardner. yes mayor uh this is a utility vacation is that where 15th street turns south and and becomes beechwood avenue to the west there's a residential development being uh put together there and the vacation is needed to facilitate a single family home that's being constructed in that location where the minor vacation is planning commission staff recommend approval That's by the apartments over there, isn't it? There are apartments. This particular vacation is where there's a single family home plan. Make sure. Yes. All right. What questions do we have regarding this? Anything? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. John. May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. Second. Adele? I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Anybody put your names in? Did you? Motion and a second, please. Yeah, we need names. I know, I know. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Hattie? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Lutere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 18-6097 for property located west of Beachwood Avenue and 15th Street to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Okay. So, Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele? I second that. Okay. Okay. we have a motion and second to go to third and final reading soldier would you please call the rope yes eddie yes yes yes yes yes and the ordinance approved vac 18-6097 for property located west of beechwood avenue and 15th street to vacate a portion of a utility easement Mayor, just for those of you here who are hearing this banging, is part of your energy improvement project where we're replacing windows? They're on the back end of this building. We're going to have them stop until the council meeting is over, but that's what you heard, so don't be alarmed. That's good because I thought we had a match in the belfry. Yep. Do we have any comments? Sarah. You're doing this on purpose. Okay. Okay. Since there's no further comments, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Punch? Yes. Lature? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, number five. An ORINST amend 111.04 application permits in Chapter 11, Alcohol Beverages. Whereas, Act 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedures set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated Section 3-9-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas, requires the City Council approve, quote, by ordinance, an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit an application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 111.04 of Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages, and enact a new Section 111.04 as follows at Subsection A, Application Requirements, Subsection 1. Application for a private club permit required by this Chapter shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the City, and shall be accompanied by a copy of the applicant's State Private Club Permit application. If approved by the City Council, a copy of the ordinance shall be provided to the applicant to submit with the applicant's Arkansas Alcoholic Beverage Control Permit application. The applicant shall then provide a copy of the State Permit to the City and pay all required fees before a certain City Permit will be issued. Subsection 2. Application for any other permit required by this chapter shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the city and shall be accompanied by the required fee and a copy of the applicant's state permit. No city permit will be issued until the applicant has received a state permit. Now, this was brought to our attention by the police, and I'm sure they'll be happy to comment on it. But as you know, the first two times that we faced this new state law, we just passed a general ordinance saying, OK, go ahead and do it. And we decided that was probably not the best way to do it. And we thought the best thing to do would be to start this application with the police department, which is what this will do. and also require the applicant to provide what they are proposing to supply to the state alcoholic beverage commission. So all of the questions that they will have to answer for the state, we can see ahead of time. At that point in time, then it will be presented to the city council, and it will be up to you to decide whether or not this is a quality application. Listening to the police department and any investigation they might have, So if that is then passed by the city council, then they can go to the state. And once they go to the state and get theirs passed, it comes back here. It doesn't have to go before you again. It'll just be automatically where they can get their city permit issued. previous to this law, you all didn't have to see any of these. And all they had to do is go to the state, get their permit, and then our code allowed us administratively to issue a permit for them if they had their state permit. And, in fact, that's the way it works for all the other permits, as you can see in subsection 2. We've kept the administrative procedure. But for private clubs only, they'll have to come here first. Now, Chief, did you want to add anything to that? Did I get it right? Is that? Okay. Okay. Matt. Yeah, quick question. When somebody goes through this process, and I guess in our agenda, would it be a resolution or ordinance to approve their permit? Good question. I think it has to be an ordinance, too. I think that's what that act said. I think Act 1112 said an ordinance. You'll have to ask the states why. But I'll look at that again, but I'm pretty sure it does require an ordinance, just like we did the first two times. Now, I cannot explain why. Well, on the off chance it says resolution, I'd just like to voice my support that these go on the consent agenda by default. Okay. Okay. if that occurs if that if that occurs just saying as you can see in in the first whereas class clause it actually quotes act 1 11 12 by ordinance and application so we must do an application again i don't know why the state said that but they didn't consult with us prior to passing this okay what other questions do we have in the council on this okay what public comment do we have on this Okay, bring it back to the council. Sarah? May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Hattie? Yes. Munch? Yes. Loutre? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 111.04, application for permits in chapter 11, alcoholic beverages. And so, Adela. I'm always a spender of the third and final reading. Okay, Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the vote? Kenyon. Yes. Nettie. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Latour. Yes. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. And ordinance amend section 111.04, application for permits in chapter 11, alcoholic beverages. Okay. Final comments. okay sunday would you please call the rope yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number six In order to amend 154.03 private party zoning amendment petition, can I believe you have an amended version? Yes, we're handing out an amended version of this. I'd like to, before I read it, I'd really rather have it amended so I can read the proper one. This morning, Garner Stoll and Andrew Garner, I don't know if they're brothers, but... He called me up and pointed out that a change is probably warranted, and that change would be to move the fact that a signed certificate of mailing must be provided, but it should not have to be provided with the actual application. It should be provided though before the Planning Commission can hear any application. I thought that made a lot of sense, so I removed that down, took it off of the 1, 2, 3, 4 requirements, placed it separately just with the notation that it has to be done before the Planning Commission can consider the rezoning. recommend that you amend what was handed out originally to you at the agenda session and to the newer one that is before you tonight. And I would also offer Garner or Andrew any time, any comment they might want to make about that. Mayor, the previous ordinance I think was workable, but this certainly clarifies it that the first three are required before we take the application and the fourth requirement, which is a certification that the surrounding property owners have been notified is required before we can place it on the Planning Commission's agenda. So it clarifies the previous draft. We have a... Sarah? I move that we amend the ordinance as per Kitt's language. Right. Kyle? Second. I have a motion and a second to amend to this new language. Correct? On the ordinance. All right. Before we... Oh, let's see. Yeah, I'll do this first. All right. Do we need to take a public comment on the amendment? You could if you wanted to. It's... That's the amendment I usually do. Okay. i'll bring it back to the council we have a motion in a second any cop nope i'm pushing the bus sunday would you please call them row can he is yes yes yes yes ma'am smith yes right yes harsh yes okay now i'll read the ordinance as amended okay uh in order to amend section 154-03 private party zoning amendment a petition whereas the planning department planning commission city council and neighbors would benefit by receiving more information from rezoning applicant that is currently required by section 154-03 private parties zoning amendment now therefore be ordained by the city council the city of arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section A petition of Section 154.03, Private Party Zoning Amendment, in its entirety, and enact a replacement subsection A application as follows. Subsection A, Application. A landowner or authorized agent representative may apply for a rezoning of the landowner's property by completing, signing, and submitting the Planning Department's rezoning application with all required documentary attachments, paying the rezoning application fee, and providing at least the following information as well as all information required by the rezoning application. Number one. the full name and address of the property owner and any designated agent or representative. Number two, the legal description of the property requested to be rezoned and the proposed new zoning districts. And three, a statement explaining the compatibility of this proposed rezoning with neighboring property and explaining why the proposed rezoning will not unreasonably adversely affect or conflict with surrounding land uses. Prior to the Planning Commission's consideration of the rezoning request, the applicant must furnish the Planning Department a signed certificate of mailing to notify all adjacent property owners of this requested rezoning pursuant to Section 157.03. Okay. Tony, you got anything you want to add to that or anything else? No, Mayor. Okay. What counsel have any questions or anything? Any public comment on this? No. Right back to the council. All right, here we go. Adele. I move Wade go to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Hutch. Yes. Lature. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance to amend section 15403 private party zoning amendment subsection A petition. and so we go to the third and final reading second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second Yes. Eddie? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Nance? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. All right. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? I actually have a question for the city council. I met yesterday along with some city staff with the downtown parking district. all have served a long time and we're going to have to reappoint them quickly so they get back up to standards and are within their terms again. One of them who has been the chairman for a long time, Lamar Pettis, actually sold his property so he can no longer serve once his replacement has been placed in there. The other two, Greg Lee and Well, another attorney that I keep blowing my mind right now has served a long time and it's difficult sometimes to get people to serve because you must be a landowner in the district. And so the question that I said I would pose to you is I don't think you've actually ever interviewed them before because it is an improvement district and not a city committee. And so I told them I would ask if that would be possible, that you would not have to interview the two that would like to serve again. And there will be a third person. They will all submit a petition as required by state law. It is an appointment by the city council. So you could insist on interviewing them if you want to, but it is a very small area of people that could actually serve. And it's really more difficult to get people to serve. than try to keep people away from serving. So I told him I'd ask you that. Why don't you think about that? And maybe at the agenda session, you can let me know whether or not that would be satisfactory with you. Anything else? Mayor, yes, several announcements tonight. There's asphalt work that's going to be causing street closures in the downtown square area this week. We've been holding off on that work to do it during the, University and Fayetteville Public School District's spring break. We're trying to keep roads, at least one lane of roads open in these areas, but it could impact individuals who are trying to do business with those businesses on the square or here at City Hall. The information is on the city's website. The work is done from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. And we are trying to accommodate keeping lanes open so all facilities are accessed. But it could be an inconvenience or a little bit longer, so plan for that on your trips downtown this week. Secondly, in the spirit of making sure that we do good public notification, a year ago the council asked that we work closely with the University of Arkansas when firework notifications were going to be made, particularly around the spring Razorback baseball games for neighborhoods who might have pets that are impacted and can plan for it. fireworks notification. There's a list also on the city's website of all of the dates, but the next dates will be Friday, April the 6th and Saturday, April the 7th. So if you can help us get that word out to your constituents, that would be helpful. Thirdly, Wednesday, so tomorrow from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., we have a very exciting event called Progress in Print. The City of Fayetteville's Community Resource Division is hosting this event as a way of highlighting the variety of programs funded by the Federal Community Development Block Grant Program. We're celebrating the 2018 National Community Development Week with this event tomorrow um light refreshments will be provided the event is free it will highlight for our citizens so they can learn about cdbg funded community programs so the council and latour's comments about how do people find out about our housing rehabilitation and repair program this event tomorrow we'll talk about that as well as transportation assistance the hearth program which is for our homeless and many other programs that are funded by CDBG funding. The city has been providing much-needed services through this funding to low- and moderate-income residents for the past 40 years, and so this is a good way to come learn more about that. Tomorrow, 3 o'clock at the Fayetteville Town Center, 15 West Mountain Street. We also have our first bulky waste clean up date coming up. It's a week from Saturday. So if you want to plan a neighborhood clean up or something of that nature, Saturday, March 31st from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. The two locations are, of course, the recycling and trash collection facility on Happy Hollow Road and Shaver Foods parking lot, 1367 South Beachwood. So for the south end of town. That's the first location. Others will follow, but that's the first one. And that's all the announcements tonight. All right. Anything else? Very good. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.