Let's go ahead and get the working session of the city council going. The public certainly is allowed to view the meeting, but we're not taking any public comment tonight. I wanted this to be a working session of the city council. And then next Tuesday, we will take public comment again. So I guess we'll start with DeAndre. I know that you're... And then we'll go to Mike.
 just to get things started. I mean, you've had time to read whatever Blake has put out, so let's start the discussion. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. As I mentioned during the agenda session, basically what I sent Blake is those are the thoughts that I believe that it's, after talking it over with the community members who are
 part of the process initially I gathered that information and that's what I sent over to Blake sure and With of course merging the details merging the information from the other Resolution I included that as well. So that should be what you have in front of you tonight That's everything that I said Blake. All right, so, you know Blake you might want to I
 familiarize the council with the process that you did. I like the color things that you had, the yellow and green and blue. I can keep up with it a little better. So just to kind of set the stage, we started with council member Jones's resolution
 Then we had Council Member Whittaker et al.'s resolution. And then we received three amendments from Council Member Stafford, and he wanted to proceed with only two of those, amendments one and three. And then we received two amendments from Council Member Jones. And then you asked me to try to draft a combined resolution. So using all four of those documents, you have...
 the combined resolution in front of you. Do you want me to go through line by line? What has been changed? What is the wish the council? This is what I wanted a working session for y'all. Do you want to go through these line by line or what?
 Bob, then you. Maybe just that verbal overview of the work you did would be helpful to us. Thank you. Okay. So if you look at the compromise resolution, the first four whereas clauses are original to the Jones, I'm going to call them the Jones resolution and the Whitaker resolution for simplicity. So one through four are from the original Jones resolution.
 uh whereas number five came from the wedeker resolution but was also mentioned in jones amendment number two uh whereas number six and seven well six came from council member stafford's amendment number one this was the acknowledgement of staff and the work that staff has been doing whereas number seven the the last one on the first page
 seemed to have pretty universal agreement. It was in the Whedeker Resolution, Jones Amendment number one, and Stafford Amendment number one in various forms. Going to the second page toward the bottom, the eighth whereas is no change that was in the Jones Resolution originally, and then the last whereas number nine came from Jones Amendment number two. Flipping to page three,
 There was no change to Section 1 from the Jones resolution. Number two, Section 2 came from Jones Amendment number two. This was the acknowledgement of the efforts underway and finding additional funding for those efforts. Section 3 was mostly intact from the original Jones resolution. His Amendment number one, I'm sorry, Amendment number one added some additional information about the task force, particularly the 11 members.
 certain areas of expertise. Section four came from Jones Amendment number two. This was adding kind of a charge to the Housing Crisis Task Force, what the City Council wanted them to accomplish during and at the end of their year.
 Section five came from Stafford Amendment number three. And this is kind of a compromise between the original housing coordinator request and then the request in the Whittaker resolution focusing on development services. So I think Councilmember Stafford was trying to accomplish finding out if there are any backlogs or bottlenecks and then staffing those as appropriate. Section six.
 It's a combination of the original Jones Resolution language and Stafford Amendment Number 3. Let's see, Sections 7, 10, 12, 15, and 16 are original to the Jones Resolution. And then Sections 8, 9, 11, 13, and 14 came from the Whedeker Resolution. And hopefully the color coding is helpful. Oh, it's very helpful. Very helpful.
 Oh, and I will, I should cover the things that I didn't include and that's in my memo. So I didn't include all of the background information from Councilmember Whitaker's resolution going back to historical funding issues, mostly because I was trying to keep this on four pages. We can add it back in if you want to. The other one was a point about
 labor and wages that I thought was certainly tangentially related but not on point to the housing issue. So I did not include that. I didn't include Councilmember Stafford's amendment too because he's withdrawn his support of that.
 I did not include Councilmember Jones's Amendment Number 2 about the AG opinion, and I did that because I think it would be better to have a specific proposal to have the AG opine upon than a general question. And if you have a specific plan, then we can certainly add that back in.
 And I think that was, oh, I also didn't include the specific list of task force members, because I think from the original resolution, you were saying you wanted it set up by the end of the second quarter. And so I have left how the task force is being created open for discussion.
 And also the title, we left it at a resolution to declare a housing crisis in the city of Federal Lane 2, summarize actions taken and anticipated to support housing production in the city of Federal Lane 2. That's the title. So I'm just asking, is that okay or not okay? Mayor Jordan, can you repeat that, please? Yeah, I sure can.
 The title just reads, A Resolution to Declare a Housing Crisis in the City of Federal and to Summarize Actions Taken and Anticipated to Support Housing Production in the City of Federal. That's fine. Is that all right, Mike? Yes, sir. Bob, you had some amendments on this. Do you have any? I'll just leave it open for the title. Is there anybody? No.
 Yes. Are you good with that, DeAndre? Your light's on, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Teresa. Blake, I just wanted to clarify. I thought there was a last section in the Whitaker proposal that maybe you left off or did not include. It's, you know, it's very lengthy and you did a great job. Maybe you could speak to that? Are you talking about the...
 the most beneficial positions to add. Yeah, so that was taken up, it was kind of swallowed up by section five of the compromise resolution that says that the city council commits to identifying opportunities to accelerate the approval of housing and housing opportunities in Fayetteville and further commits to considering the hiring of additional staff in areas with a need for greater capacity.
 I thought the information there about the mayor overseeing staff and those kinds of features were, I thought they were important to include. Mayor does oversee staff. Yes. So it just really kind of clarified sort of the way the city runs. And so I was hoping that would be in that, in the compromise language. Okay.
 I'll try and find the exact language and make a motion to add that. Well, we can't, we're not voting on anything tonight. That's Tuesday night. Thank you for clarifying that. And then we'll get everybody, the public will be weighing in. Yes, Bob. I just want to ask, are you referring to Section 8 of the Lederberg resolution?
 I'm just trying to find that. I'm sorry, I'm trying to go back and find the original resolution that Mr. Whittaker proposed. So I'm sorry, I'll get there. Mayor, I think Councilor McHarris was referring to that the mayor of Mountain City Council in such a position would be funded by a state of development fees appropriated by council and not the administration's .
 Thank you. That's exactly what I was trying to refer to. Thank you, Blake. But you, we can add that in, but it's not going to be what we would say voted on until Tuesday. What else? I guess I've got clarification on what we hope to accomplish tonight, because if, are we, I know we're not voting on anything, but like what Teresa just asked,
 Are we trying to take what we have here and come up with some semblance of a final document to then finally discuss an open meeting on Tuesday? Is that what our goal is? Well, this is an open meeting. Okay. So we can add and take away as.
 Yeah, I think it's a consensus, not necessarily a vote, but I have a feeling that the consensus of the council that wants a change to this document, then I can redraft it and bring it back. You'll look at it again on Tuesday. And if you don't like it, then just vote no on certain sections or whatever you like. So basically we wouldn't be making a motion tonight, we'd make a suggestion tonight and see what everybody's temperature is. That's what I was hoping for. I got it.
 Tuesday was a little on the, I was a little confused with some of it. So I wanted to be sure that we're clear on everything. We're sort of going. That's why. And the last I heard you all wanted Blake to put these together. And Bob, you had your amendments. And Mike had his and a resolution. And DeAndre had a resolution and amendment. So.
 This is what Blake came up with. That doesn't mean it's the final documents. You can add other things. You can do that Tuesday. I mean, you can suggest tonight. We're not going to vote on anything tonight. Yes. So, Mayor, instead of a motion, I want to come back to the suggestion. And that was the Section 8 that Blake read. I would really like that included back in. Okay.
 because I think it clarifies how the city operates and functions. I thought it was a really kind of good summary and necessary to clarify this very long resolution. So I'm,
 I'm just putting that out there. I'll read it that Blake just read, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby acknowledges that ambiguity deters investment and that if the enhanced speed of housing development review decisions is the practical desire, the most beneficial positions to add would be city engineer, deputy director of development services, planning inspector, plan...
 plan checker and all staff report to the mayor and not the city council. And any such position would need to be funded via updated development fees appropriated by council and left to the administration to implement. Now, you know, we could take out the specificity, but I think of the, of the positions that,
 But I think the last portion, all staff report to the mayor and not the city council. And any such position would need to be funded via updated development fees appropriated by council and left to the administration to implement. I think that just, so that is my suggestion. Go ahead. I mean, this is kind of a little more. Yes, sir. Hi.
 I guess whenever before you know I take the newspaper and kind of set it aside and I think back to what was the intent and purpose? Like what was the reason this resolution was brought forward? And I think that it was brought forward and correct me if we're getting off-center but I think it's always better to read and hear about what our focus and our goal is, is to really recognize that we're in a housing crisis. You have to identify the problem and then you have to start to say what solutions are we going to put forward?
 And then ultimately the resolution is trying to put some solutions forward. And so for me, I start getting concerned about additional board of students that doesn't start to put us in directives towards that end goal. And so I was, you know, making concessions and trying to go along and get along to some degree. But at the end of the day, I'm incredibly concerned about...
 additional very happily reviewing that we didn't show any
 that we identify that there is a study in section nine, we identify that there is a study that's happening, there's a fee study to be able to adjust and engineering development services that's not been adjusted in 17 years. And that we do recognize that those monies and what is adjusted should go back towards that department. I think that's very actionable. We know that that will be able to carry workflow that can help with housing production.
 But then, you know, for me, I think that's not my...
 I also want to make sure that I'm strongly on record that I've worked really closely with many boards and committees. I've seen well functioning committees and have seen really dysfunctional and those that are not able to fulfill their mission when they're old. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee. I've seen really good work done on the committee.
 And I have a lot of concerns that the new board of the task force of individuals who are highly functioning in our community, who work really laborious jobs that take a lot of their energy and effort, and they step up to the plate and they're showing up to help to create these solutions. But if they don't have a housing coordinator or a staff member, that they will, in all the times that they're doing their regular jobs,
 at one point and they're getting race cards and they're all thinking and
 and we will all sign in between your meetings i'm concerned that they won't be as successful so that's been cool from us but i feel very strongly that it makes a lot of sense for this timeline as we try to put the test course in place if we're all in agreement we have to support through a task force it's going to be the second quarter probably the second quarter if they're going to all get together they're going to recognize they have to they're not
 they're not going to have staff around them potentially or we're going to be full of staff members that's already busy. And that doesn't make a lot of sense. Potentially, right? Exactly. And so I think that we also really have to be realistic, too, about what the needs are here.
 and when we had a conversation back in February of 2003 we talked about this and we adopted it and during that time there was a lot of conversation about wanting to fulfill those specific recommendations from the plan and then we thought we'd probably give you the headcount until the end of the year and so there's been a recognition from the body that we do need staff to be able to actually fulfill them
 And so I really wanted to try to think about that as we go into Tuesday and as we have conversations about this one, which I feel really rooted in those actionable things that we all need to have happen to swing a pendulum on how we can tackle these. Bob, and then Paul. Well, I wanted to just, Teresa talked about that Section 8, and I like the idea of,
 of getting rid of the word I can't say right now, specificity. You know what I'm saying? I'm sorry. I'm a little tongue tied in parts. But another part that I might want to change because I don't want to tie the administration and staff's hands when it comes to hiring a
 position I think that the possibly using development fees is a great way to fund a position but I don't want to say that's the only way to fund it I think you know the mayor and Paul I want to give them the flexibility they need if they identify a position I don't want to say well you can't you can't do that the way you want to do it because we put it in here that you can't do it that way or something does that make sense so
 Before we get into just back and forth, let's keep some order here. Holly, would you like to? I think you've been waiting a while. Thank you. I think in order for me to be supportive of the task force in particular, I need more detail, and I appreciate the detail that was added. However, I still think that we have some missing pieces on how those members would be appointed, whether that's through an application that then goes to the nominating committee and then they decide.
 or if those people are appointed by the mayor, and then how does the mayor make that selection, if there's some sort of criteria for that. So I would need to see those details for me to be supportive of, particularly the task force in Section 3. Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think there's,
 very good reasons to drop the specificity from the brilliant Weed-O-Curve resolution. It's not as brilliant as he was hoping it might be. I think that we don't want to tie the administration's hands. And in all honesty, that was the only new revenue source that I thought might be coming in. We don't even know that it's going to come in. And so I trust the administration, if there is an appropriate position to go there,
 And I think as long as we're looking for efficiency and streamlining and empowering the administration, at the bottom of page two, there's a whereas from the Jones Amendment. And I think it's appropriate that we kind of have that definition of ad hoc committees, because then with that in mind, if you turn to section three, where task forces are mentioned,
 For me personally, and perhaps just for me, that's a little too specific for me. And I would like to see the mayor have the ad hoc power, as he already does, to exercise, create the task force, appoint to the task force,
 I can assure you the nominating committee does not want 60 applications and to attempt to go through those and then simply disappoint 50 people that don't get appointed because there's passionate, caring, skillful people that will apply. And I think the second half of that for me is just the notion on if we're looking for efficiency and expertise,
 You know, I mentioned the Accelerate Foundation. I just think that it would behoove us to have one of the LIHTC experts in the room to be a participant. I would think that we would be interested in perhaps in a university representative, but I'm not putting any of those in writing. I'll verbalize those in today's meeting where the mayor hears them and just say, let's just do this as a traditional legal process.
 temporary ad hoc task force that he can create and staff with volunteers. And that would work for me. And I know in the give and take perspective, I think that that's a good faith middle ground. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council Member Whitaker. I appreciate that because that's what we were thinking about. I'm glad that you referenced that about the ad hoc committee because it is written in I believe that it's in our city ordinance. I believe that there is one.
 What are the things that we were going to do? We were back and forth deciding since this is a crisis, what would be the most effective way to do this? The option, of course, is the traditional nominating committee. And then, of course, empowering Mayor Jordan to make that decision. And so we...
 My goal was next week was to present those options, to send Blake those options and then have the council members vote on what would be the best course of action to take. Empower Mayor Jordan to make the decision or develop an ad hoc committee. And these are just simply the options to take as it relates to developing a task force based on the necessary skill sets. How did we put together this?
 our health board during COVID. How did we do that? How was that done, Mr. Mayor? Do you remember? I worked on that and I ended up appointing, but I think Matthew- Matthew Petty. We worked together on that and he had recommendations and I had recommendations. So we shared,
 And that's about all I can tell you. But I, you know, we have set task force up before. Yeah. It's not, I mean, we have set, I've set up probably five or six at least since I've been in office, just set them up. I would feel comfortable letting that, you know, letting that be your decision because, you know, however that works out, if we end up with a task force that I'm okay with that.
 So I know that Matthew had some recommendations and I had some recommendations. I would be very comfortable with letting you decide that. It wasn't a laborious thing, if I remember correctly. No, and you've got really good people to be on the committee. Yeah, we've got some good people. I just don't think, you know, I just don't want this. I would prefer the mayor decide on this and it not come back to nominating committee because it's just...
 It just ends up being too much sometimes on that, you know, to try and, anyway, whatever. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting. I'm starting to get involved in the conversation now. Go ahead. I was just going to say thank you, Councilmember Bunch, because that's one of the recommendations. Personally, I like, I remember when Mayor Jordan appointed the African-American,
 advisory group and we were able to develop race is a public health crisis. And so we were, that was one of the things that he wanted us to do. And so we were able to fulfill that. But if my memory serves me correct, I believe that with the board of health and the way that that was set up, that's, I'm thinking along those lines, because from what I understand, you received
 names from the council and then you appointed them. So if it could follow that course, that would be that. That's fine. But I do think that we should empower you based upon the recommendations of those task force members. I feel that empowering you to make that decision like you've done in the past would be effective. Well, the thing was we worked together on African-American advisory committee.
 there was about three or four of us we had different names we but ultimately i had to appoint i mean even when there is a vacancy on the medical board i appoint someone to replace that individual on the medical board and i assumed that would be what this would be you've got it signed for a year so you know what the process would be i i'd get some names and
 And you all would, I mean, everybody would weigh in, sort of, kind of. I can't really explain it much better than that, but about anything we have done when we've done this task force, you all have said, hey, mayor, we got this great person we think would do a real good job on this task force. And you've got 11 of them and I'm not, you know, that way it's not like, oh, the mayor of Georgia is just picking folks. And I mean, you know, I want you all to weigh in on it.
 And for us, we were able to achieve the goal that you wanted us to achieve by meeting. And you requested that individuals from different experiences, different professions were able to come together. And in order to achieve that goal, that's what we did. And so we were able to do exactly what you wanted us to do. And we were able to deliver those recommendations back to you and therefore provide
 the council adopted the
 proclamation, I'm sorry, the resolution with racism as a public health crisis. So we were able to function exactly and do the things that you wanted us to do. So that's a good example of what we're thinking about. If there's a vacancy, the way we have done before, and this is going to go for, I understand, the second quarter of this year, which ends in June.
 Yes. But, you know, maybe it will be done quicker than that. But it'll depend on, you know, you'll say, hey, Mayor Jordan, you know, we're we're looking at these names and these people and I'm going to listen to you because I want it to be something that we can work on this thing together. Mike. And then thank you, Mr. Mayor. I also want to float the idea that while we're talking as if the task force is a static body,
 I think the caliber of individual that we're hoping to have participate may very well say, hey look, there are three meeting individual that's going to come and cover a specific topic, but their calendar is such that they're not going to dedicate a year to us, and we would be thankful to have them participate,
 LIHTC funding or to have them participate as a university representative from the chancellor's office or these are going to be people that That would be supplemental that I think might come and go from the task force Versus the core that would be appointed and I would like you to have that flexibility as well I think that would be to our best advantage Okay mayor
 Sorry, it's I was going to suggest some possible language for the city council to consider on that on section three. Instead of saying hereby commits to establishing an ad hoc task force, we just say commits to the establishment of the task force. And then number two would say the task force will consist of 11 members to be appointed by Mayor Jordan with expertise in.
 would he come up with that language as it relates to the areas of expertise? When I listened to Councilmember Whitby's presentation tonight, I thought about perhaps adding or making room for someone from the university and available public schools. And of course making a, making room for individuals who are impacted. Sure.
 And let's see. All right, Mike. And, you know, I think the static 11 members is the one that I would ask us not to do so that there is the flexibility to have people come and participate for a season versus having to say, yes, I can commit to 12 months to you. If they can give us six months of expertise, I would like that. So I'm not envisioning, or I would prefer...
 to not have a static defined number, but to leave that to the mayor with input from his counsel. Thank you. Sir. I have concerns. I know I worked at the National Institute of Corrections whenever they were helping to establish Washington County's Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee. And one of the things that they talked about in creating a well-functioning committee was
 making sure that it was inclusive enough, but that it didn't get too overly cumbersome with too much headcount. And so I guess that would just be my concern about having it either at a vague number or an ever expanding number is that, there are those phrases too many cooks in the kitchen. And so trying to get consensus or to go one direction as we see with an eight member council,
 that 11 was a thoughtful consideration, I believe, and I'm going off memory, it's been a few years, but I believe it was somewhere around, they said no more than 15, and so, and that's a lot, right, and that's what she kind of warned about, so I just want to kind of put that into consideration. And I would kind of agree with that, because usually about nine is about
 I mean, because not everybody's gonna make it every time you meet and then you gotta get a quorum there. So that means you're gonna have to have, what out of 11, you're gonna have to have six that show up every time. Then there'll be people that'll drop off. They just say, well, I'm just, it's too much work. I don't wanna do it. And then that gives me the ability to plug somebody else in and I'll get some input from you all.
 I think that I think I would be in support of that and I do like the idea that the smaller number is more manageable but because we do have some pretty big committees and sometimes they just don't You just can't make a quorum or you know, like he said everything he said is true there people drop off they just fade away and and there is also the possibility that if we have have it too narrowly focused that if
 that we won't be able to find people to fill these particular, you know, niches in just the quick fashion we would like. But there's also the possibility that we might find a person that is willing to serve that could,
 kind of fill the capacity of a couple of the ideals that you have so you know someone that works for the school but also has a different level of expertise too so i think we can all work this out and but smaller number i think is better and back to my original comment i believe the mayor can can handle this and and i trust he's done this in the past and he's always
 he always tries to do what he, you know, what is going to be best for the committee that he's trying to create. He takes that very seriously. So I'm willing to trust him on that. To getting back to the number, the first town and gown we put together had 22 members on it. Now I'm telling you, it was hard to get a quorum there. And well, Susan can tell you better than I can. It was, well, it wasn't,
 We had, we made it smaller. What's it, how big is it now Susan, you remember? Um, I think there are, uh, I think there are 15 now, uh, because we have equal participation from the university, from the city, and from the at-large. People roll off and yes, pretty soon.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was going to advocate for a smaller number, too. There's a sweet spot because you don't want to have it too few where you're not getting that broad representation and discussion. And then you and then if people drop out, then you can't make quorum. But there's if you have too many, you never go anywhere. And I've been a lot of committees and it's true.
 I just would recommend that it's no more than nine, maybe even less than that. I think 11 is even too many. So that's what I would suggest. And then as we've discussed, if we sent some suggestions to the mayor and let the mayor decide on the committee, because he's going to have to staff it. So somebody's going to have to be there staffing it.
 and he's heard from the community. We've all heard from the community last week, and I think we've got a pretty good idea of some of the items and the expertise that we're going to discuss and that expertise that we need.
 Mayor, may I add a comment about the expertise? Only that when you all begin to provide suggestions to the mayor, if that's the way you're going to do it, it would be great if you would identify the individual based on the expertise that's written in your... So that we can keep a spreadsheet that shows maybe who we're missing and who we've got and, you know, that kind of thing. I want to...
 diverse committee too. We were thought about, there were some names that were thrown around, but because this hadn't been solidified, we didn't think that it would be to our advantage to reach out to people and ask them to serve on a committee that hasn't yet been formed. So we did, there was some flirting with the different names, but since we're at this stage, it just didn't, it didn't make sense to,
 bring in other people. And this task force, it's just, it's potential. It's not actually been voted on. So once it's voted on, then we will certainly follow with bringing the names with the right expertise and what's needed to be successful. Well, we can make it work. I mean, Scott. I guess where I sit on this is, yeah,
 I struggle, I'm willing to compromise and if we all decide we want to do a task force, that's fine, I have no problem with that. I struggle though, if anyone besides the mayor appointing them because it needs, it does not need to be all like thinking people. It needs to be a diverse group of people looking at the situation
 And I think that is critical for its success. And this has been used a little bit as a device to separate us a little bit, and we need to make sure we come together and get the right answers for the city of Fayetteville. And I think that requires a diverse group of thinkers. So, you know, my other concern,
 is our job is to listen to the community. And we had what, 25 people come speak the other night, roughly 25 people. 30. 35 people, okay. 30 plus. The overwhelming message that I heard was we need assistance with rent. We need help with rent. Our apartment is bug infested.
 I don't want to say this, but it's the truth. This resolution, whatever resolution we come up with in the short term, is not going to make an effect on those situations in the short term. So that's my concern that we're giving people. I don't know if false hope is the right word, but I don't think anybody on this council does not recognize
 the struggles that are out there. Staff is working every day tirelessly, and it concerns me that we're diverting their attention on this and are we losing focus? And that's my concern, but I will, in a spirit of compromise, do what the council decides.
 When we met with each time that we met with this community, we did tell them that this is not, we explained the process and we said this is not overnight. This is just, this is the purpose of this task force is to make recommendations to address every issue that not only these 30, 35 people mentioned, but also the
 the 1300s of the 1300 people, over 1300 people that signed the petition. Not only those individuals, but the individuals who we've had personal conversations with one on one. We told them they were fully aware of their situation and what we're doing. And one of the things that they said, almost every last one of them, at least y'all are doing something.
 They realized one of them, they said, at least you guys are addressing the issue. You're hearing us and because you're hearing us, we believe, we have hope that this is going to get better. Before we had these town halls and these conversations with the community, I didn't hear that. I'm not saying they didn't say it, I didn't hear it. So what we've done is all of this again, the resolution that you have in front of you came from the community.
 They put it together. From the task force to everything else, they put it together. This is what they wanted, considering all the issues that they've had, that they have concerning needing to pay their rent, all of those things. And so they are aware that the task force will address these things and advise the city on what to do. They are aware that there are things that need to be done right now.
 We we this is something that we talked about almost at every meeting. We said this is not a quick fix, but they one thing that I remember and it was resounding. Y'all are doing something. Well, yeah, I just want to do. I think originally I had some concerns that were maybe similar to Scott's. That's why I had that amendment number two that I withdrew because I said, well, maybe instead of a task force, let's.
 look at some of the other committees we already had. But after hearing from the constituents, I, you know, I withdrew that. And I do think that a task force can help. A task force can give us maybe perspectives, especially if it's made up of the right people, can give us perspectives that we can't see ourselves.
 And Mr. Councilmember Whitaker's presentation, you know, pointed out that the Bentonville Housing Affordability Workgroup. So that was something that they put together. And so I think, you know, I do...
 I do think a task force is a good way to go. Yeah, I think the reason we hear mostly from renters, I've heard from a lot of homeowners too, but our city is a majority renters. We're a majority renter city. We have more renters than homeowners in our city. So I think it's just natural that that's...
 where the balance of voices are going to be coming from. But yeah, I strongly, you know, like I said, I had questions about the task force and was looking for different ways, but after hearing from folks, I support the task force. And I do think that we're working forward here, letting the mayor, you know, I think that's the right way to go forward is putting this in our mayor's hands.
 And then we all get to give input and get it done. Well, then, Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. I want to respond a little bit to Councilperson Berna's concerns.
 I hear you on wanting to make sure that there is a diversified set of folks that would be a part of that. And I think that that was a consideration set even in the community. Again, you know, those closest to the problems often have the solutions. And it's a big recognition that it needs to be, you know, landlords, even as much as someone would say potentially they've been at odds with their landlord. They don't.
 know that those are the individuals that have equity, that have the business acumen and experience to help be a part of the solution. And so I hope that as you've heard the additional conversation that you can be supportive of, that it would be a very a variety of voices that would be a part of that conversation. And that's very supported in the community as well. I'm not being just a single voice.
 But I also, too, want to address what the potential tone or intention or what have you
 Housing, when we say it's a human right, it's a basic need that individuals, it's Maslow's hierarchy of needs. We have so many individuals, we've got a crisis for our mental health, we've got some of the biggest overdoses of opiates in our region, and our state has very high numbers.
 And you can't even start to chip away at some of those public health issues whenever people's basic needs are not met. And the folks that were talking about their rent, I mean, that was a portion of our community. But I know that we all are hearing that it's...
 people who are on fixed incomes or are working middle class too who own their own homes that they're struggling with rising pressures on property taxes and all those additional inputs. And you've got people who are looking at purchasing homes so that their children will have a home to be able to have a place in Fayetteville. And so it's impacting so much of our population. And so it's not even just renters. I see it kind of across the spectrum. And so I think,
 that's the strength of a task force is that when you do have that variety of lived experiences and expertise that it will bubble up all those perspectives and we've been so lucky i understand again no one wants to put additional
 stress or work burden on staff. I think what we're recognizing is that yes, staff does a good job, but even with everything they're doing, it's not enough that our gap is widening in so many areas. And they did a wonderful job of illustrating to us how tremendous those gaps are that exist in our different housing stocks and how cost burden our residents are. And so,
 You know, the goals and the metrics that are listed out as part of this are a way forward. It's not a silver bullet. It's been used a lot. I would agree with that. I think it's a continual slog, but I hope that we'll energize it. I think that the community is saying you need to go faster. You need to go harder. You need to go stronger. And I agree with them. I don't think it's political. I think it's where we're at.
 If I sold my home today and I'm a working middle class with my husband working at a small business integral to the city of Fayetteville at Hyrule Recyclery that's been here for so long on Spring Street. If we sold our home, we would potentially have to leave Fayetteville. I can't afford to rent here or to buy in this market again. My husband and I both work and we have two children.
 Should there be a place for everyone in Fayetteville? There should. And just like we've lost Councilperson Harvey, I mean, the reality is it's hitting so many of us. And so we have to do something with greater urgency and energy. And this is such a drop in the bucket. I mean, I wish if this were my full resolution on my own, you'd probably hate it because it probably has 50 bullets of things I want to do, right? So it's just a very, very small little planting of a seed to get going.
 Mayor. Yes. Could I, since I'm trying to take notes and make sure I'm making the changes the council wants, could I try to summarize where we are on the task force? I think there's a consensus that we keep the task force. I think there's a consensus that the mayor appoint the members of the task force.
 I heard a comment about not tying to the specific expertise list of expertise that is in the highlighted section of section three, number two. And one way that you've addressed that in the past with other boards and commissions is you said expertise in or demonstrated interest in these areas. And so then you could pull from other places.
 Maybe it's somebody from the school district who has a demonstrated interest in housing for their students. They would still qualify under that language. And as far as the number of members, I don't have a good feel for the consensus on that. What would you consider on possibly a range, 7 to 13 or 7 to 11?
 I think 7 to 11. We can all, I mean, he made a good point when he mentioned some of them will, could fall off or some could be, you can classic, there's a, what is it called when this, when there's like a subcommittee or they're just, for me, the number is not the greatest number.
 detail, but if we were, I do believe and understand that a smaller number does work. But since you're asking us, I'll say between 7 and 11. I'll say if I had to pick, I would, of course, I would pick 9. But if you're asking a range, I'll say 7 to 11, from 9 through 11, something like that. Okay. Yes, let's see. Okay.
 You know, I really like what Blake was saying about, you know, broadening, you know, that if we pinpoint that we have a range of people we can choose from with expertise, because I can tell you on some of the committees that nominating committee has to populate with
 very specific seats on that committee, it is hard to do because you don't always get the right mix. And some of the committees we end up, we don't have the expertise, but we end up with trying to put someone in that committee that has like a peripheral level of interest or something like that in the issue that they're trying to be the expert in.
 and sometimes it just does not work out very well. So I would like to see that left pretty broad there with the understanding that this council, I think we all have an idea about the kinds of people we would like to see on there, and I think we're all kind of on board with that if we go the route of having a task force. Sure. All right.
 Again, I'm OK with the task force, but I want to make sure we're setting realistic expectations for the community because I want to make sure they understand what we're doing and what we're trying to do and what we can control and what we cannot control. And we can't control what a community.
 property owner charges rent, you know, what amount they charge rent. We can't control that. For example, you know, there's there's a piece of property on Township Road that's that butts up to Gully Park. That would be a great location to add to the add to the park or or sell for as a mixed use area. But it's $1.4 million
 for just a tad bit over an acre. So when you put the realistic number, when you put land costs, you put construction costs, you put interest costs, new construction, it's gonna be a challenge. And I think we need to obviously address the situation, but we also need to make realistic expectations
 what we can and cannot control clear. But you know what we can do? We can have a task force and we can share ideas. And doing nothing, you're not going anywhere. If you just don't do anything, I mean, you can stay in the safe zone. You know, I think that when you get a group of people, I know Susan remembers the old days when,
 we had federal forward and we had 12 working groups in that and from those groups came a lot of the environmental ideas we came up with and and they branched off into the environmental action committee and workforce training and stuff we discussed that and transportation i think that's going to be huge in the next um you know in the next session i
 I think, too, that I want to explore the wages. I know that we talk about that. And the rent continues to go up, but the wages doesn't go up like it needs to. I don't think. That's me. But we've got to close that gap. Because if you don't have enough money to pay your rent, you're in some serious trouble.
 And I know that's a pretty broad brush, but I think through this task force, we can discuss ideas like that. You know, I know that staff right now is working on 500 parcels along 71B. We've already got the utilities there. We can start to rezone that and make that more useful and put more, you know, just flood the city with some sort of housing.
 We've got to have more housing. I mean, you know, I just heard President Biden in the National League of Cities. He said three things. Build, build, build. You know, he's saying we've got to flood the market with housing where people, you know, and the more houses you have. It's kind of like I was telling somebody the other day, my first...
 what is those tape things that we used to buy? The microwave, let's use a microwave. So I can't think of the name of the other thing. You know, I bought my first microwave and it was small microwave and it cost me $300.
 Three years later, they just went, you know, everybody, they just went to flood the market with microwaves. Well, the next thing you know, the same microwave that I paid $300 for, you can buy for $50 about five years later. You know, it puts more, you know, we have a housing crisis, housing shortage, whatever you want to call it. But we've got to get more houses on the market. And we've got to get people better trained. That's why I push a lot on this.
 workforce training to get them better trained with better wages. And then we've got to work on the child. I could go on and on and on with this, but it's somebody else's turn. Thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry, DeAndre. Hang on, Tracy. It was DeAndre's turn. I just wanted to add that Council Member Whitaker, I really appreciate you pointing out something in your presentation tonight, the things that we can't do.
 I think that when we talked to the citizens, there were things that they, we explained, now we can't do that, but there are things that we can do by researching what other cities have done. There are a ton of things that we can explore that have been done successfully in other communities. I will say this, whenever Fayetteville has put together a task force, we've helped people.
 When I think about the Board of Health, there were so many people impacted by COVID. It made a difference here in Fayetteville. I can tell you this, when we did the mayor's meeting
 Council for African Americans. So many good things came out of that. Is it a perfect solution? No, but some things changed and people were able to feel the difference. And so this is something that's impacting everyone across racial lines, across financial lines,
 And so I believe that we're going to put together the right people to not have a perfect outcome because there's no such thing, but something that's effective in identifying exactly those things that we can do and also the ability to measure this. How are we doing? We don't have to wait until the year is up. We can measure progress along the way. We can evaluate progress.
 along the way because that's what successful groups do. So there won't be a perfect solution. People, all the needs won't be met, but history tells us in our city that when we've put task force groups together, it improved the quality of life for so many people. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I wanted to compliment Council Member Whittaker on his presentation. I thought it was really, really good.
 You know, I really want your graphics. I mean, my gosh, how you were able to pull that off. So but more seriously is I think that would be, along with maybe some examples from other cities, a great introduction to this ad hoc committee that's going to be created because that kind of sets the stage of why we are where we are in Fayetteville.
 And it also identifies, just as Council Member Jones pointed out, the serious limitations about what the city can control. I mean, we're in a market-based economy. We're not socialists. We're not communists. We have very few regulations in our purview. So we need to be conscientious of that. And I also just want to put it out there that whoever is on this committee, I'm
 I hope that they're going to work together. They're going to be collaborative. They're going to be solution oriented because that's what we really need is to be solution oriented. That's what this is all about. Otherwise, it's kind of a waste of everybody's time. So I'm hoping that is going to be the spirit of this committee. And we'll really come back with some really great examples, things that are implementable.
 that we don't have to go down to the legislature to get changed because the likelihood of that happening is pretty narrow, pretty slim. So things that we actually have control of that we can do. So thank you.
 Yeah, and I just want to kind of back up the idea of, yeah, there's a lot we can't do, but there is a lot we can do. And Austin, who's been having problems for decades now, last year, their rent, their average rent is down over 6%. I can't remember the exact number, but I think it's closer to 6.5%. Meanwhile, you know, I think rent in Texas overall was just down like 1%. So...
 I don't know what they did, but that might be one of those cities that we look at to say, okay, wait, what did you do? I imagine it was build housing. And some of the other things we do, the council does have control over rezoning. And we've been talking about this and we're doing it. We're obviously doing it, but that's just an example of the things that we can do.
 maybe we could put a little more urgency on, or again, maybe the task force can look at these different cities, look where who's had success and we emulate where there's been success. And because it is, it has happened. Austin's not the only place it's happened in other places too. So just look at what they did. Can we do what they did here? And if it makes sense, then, then, you know, I think that'd be a good thing. A good thing.
 I should have left Austin in my presentation and in the interest of time I took it out. Yeah. So for $5, I'll tell people how Austin did that after the meeting. I wanted to take a minute and acknowledge that I believe everyone's operating in the best interests of the hundred thousand people that live in Fayetteville. And I don't care if 50 people come up and talk to you. I think that's wonderful.
 I talk to people, I've obviously been researching this for years. I've been making housing presentations for a decade. It's a problem that doesn't get solved easily. So I commend everybody, for anyone you talk to and for everything that you read. And there's a lot of smart people in this community. But I think there's also a lot of people with heart in this community. And I know that I am fully capable of
 of making mistaken assumptions when things get presented to us. Shame on me. I need to do better at that. I'm working on that. I own that. That's me. I owe it to this body to make fewer assumptions. And I had the actual opportunity and privilege to meet with some people from the Housing Coalition. And they were really nice people.
 And they actually stayed in a room with me for three hours and they let me talk a long time. The door was locked, mind you, but they let me talk a long time and they were gracious about it and they were courteous about it. And I think that those are the kind of people that I'll go the extra mile for. That sincerity is not just the urgency, the sincerity matters.
 The graciousness they showed me when they could have been suspicious and accusatory of me, that's how you move the ball forward. And that's Fayetteville. It's not an accident that Whittaker's moved to Fayetteville. Hell, this is the kind of people that live here. That's why we wanted to be a part of this community. So I want to thank the people that gave me the courtesy because they'll never get those three hours of their lives back. That's gone. Thank you.
 But it helped change me. And I hope that the information that they received said, I'm not the Antichrist. I'm just in there plugging away, trying to help the most efficient use of resources in this community. Because at the end of the day, it's not our money. And we're simply...
 tasked with two things as city council members. Create policy and we get the checkbook, appropriate money to be spent. And I think every one of us is attempting to be the best stewards of the staff, the budget and the time that those people have. And I'm hoping at this point, there's kind of enough of a love fest going on
 Does Blake really need to hear too much more from us? And so I would almost put that to you, Blake, on have we confused you? Do you think there's a theme that we're traveling down? What might we do to help you who've been so helpful to us? Thank you. Mayor, I know there's at least one more amendment I passed out from Council Member Stafford. Yeah. And I can read that if he wants or you can. Sure.
 YOU'RE PROBABLY WAY BETTER AT PUBLIC READING THAN I AM. SO IF IT'S PUT INTO THE STANDARD RESOLUTION FORMAT, IT WOULD BE A NEW SECTION THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORL Arkansas HEREBY COMMITS THAT IN ORDER TO CONDUCT THE CITY'S BUSINESS MORE EFFICIENTLY, CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS SHALL MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO REQUEST SITE VISITS NO LATER THAN AGENDA SESSION RATHER THAN WAITING UNTIL CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
 Site visits should only be necessary in cases where an item before the council cannot be assessed without one, where the required information cannot be provided by plans, images, or any supporting information, and where the benefit of a site visit is clear and substantial. City council members will also make every effort to ask city staff any questions about soil, slope, drainage, and other potential issues prior to city council meetings.
 and i'll let council member stafford explain but i i did also offer that this could be brought as an amendment to the city council rules of order and procedure it's not one or the other it can be both and i will leave that up to him and and i'm amenable to either uh it really it was just um kind of like how can we be more efficient in our process and how can we uh what can we do ourselves to move things a little faster
 And that's basically where that came from. How do we, you know, when somebody comes here to ask for rezoning, a lot of times they'll have a lawyer with them. Well, that lawyer is not sitting there for free. And if they have to come back to two or three meetings, we're literally...
 you know, each of those times is adding costs to the project. And and then that cost gets passed down to the eventual renter buyer. It doesn't stick with the developer. And so this was just something in an effort to say that the city council that will strive to do our best to do our due diligence in a timely manner. And that's pretty much it. But as Blake said, it could be done here or it could be done
 in another way or both. I'm amenable to any of that. And and and yeah. And then other than that, to follow up with Councilmember Whitaker, I was going to ask the same thing. Like, it seems like we're kind of got something good going that I think Blake understands and, you know, maybe it's time to leave it to him to polish it up. But that's all.
 Okay, do you need anything else Blake? I don't think so. I would like some feedback on Councilmember Stafford's possible amendment Before I do do anything with it with this Resolution. What do you want to do Bob? What I mean? Well, I mean we just have any discussion so I Can't I can't move to no no, but I mean I mean you can if you want to put it on this
 you're talking about adding it to what we that was the original thought and then and then blake gave it another path um i would be amended uh amenable to to what my fellow council members uh what their desires were if they thought that it was
 Yeah, I'd like to hear what my fellow council member. Mayor, and just to clarify, the alternative would be to bring a separate resolution at a future meeting to amend the rules of order and procedure, and then you could have a debate specifically on that topic. Right.
 DeAndre, you're, no, Sarah, I'm sorry. Y'all didn't have. Well, you just asked for feedback. So I was just going to say I appreciated, I mean, I would be fine with either, but I did appreciate Blake's just because, you know, as part of our orders and procedures, I think it probably fits most there. Just when I think about which one, but I could be open to either.
 Yes, thanks for your flexibility. Sorry, Sarah. I think it fits with rules. Our voluntary procedures that we ask of one another, and I thought we updated those once a year in January, and we should add this to the list that we would absolutely act on. And in the meantime, we know that it's out there and something to be mindful of. But we have amended the rules of order and procedure throughout the year when...
 i mean council members have brought changes to the rules of order and procedure i believe not just in january but yes sir as somebody who's been on my fair share of tours i i can tell you sometimes it's beneficial and sometimes it isn't and it's kind of hard to say which one it's going to be it is uh you know
 I remember one of our former council members never went on tour, never showed up at a tour, even if we had one scheduled. And it is a time of
 It's one more time to let the neighbors talk to you or get a hold of you or whatever they're going to do. And, you know, we, you know, Bob, I know we talked about a lot of things at the link between Stearns and you saw the neighborhood came out and it's just, it's an opportunity for that. And sometimes that's a positive thing and sometimes it isn't, and sometimes I don't
 I can say that didn't really change my opinion of that connection. I felt like I was nice to hear from everyone, but it did not change my opinion that we needed that connection. There have been other times that I've gone out to look at something that was more a rural area or what was that off of? Park Station Road.
 you know it's a big area in the uh kind of uh big change and i felt like it was beneficial to see the lay of the land and that sort of thing so i could i can see both ways and and some council members their thought process is a little bit different than mine and they kind of need you know boots on the ground a little bit more that's just my 50 cents on that issue so okay whatever we decide um i'll i'll let you hear me okay scott you're up
 I would lean on the side of the professional courtesy of if a council member is requesting that and I don't always think it's necessary, but I always tend to give them the professional courtesy to agree to it.
 When I have taken a tour, and Stearns is a perfect example, when we were out there boots on the ground, we saw their concern about the road going too close to that one house.
 And because of doing that, seeing that, laying an eye on it, we were able to work with city staff, but we gave feedback to city staff. Neighbors gave feedback to city staff. And then we were able to adjust it. And did they fully agree with it? No, but they bought into it. And we came to an agreement on what was best. Okay.
 So, I think in some cases those tours are very helpful. So I would not be in favor of this, especially adding it to this resolution, but I don't know that I'd be in favor of going forward just because I think it is a professional courtesy we have extended to different council members when they feel like a necessity to look at a project.
 And I think most applicants understand that if it's a very big project, that it's probably not going to get through on the first reading unless it's just a cut and dry situation. Teresa.
 So just to give you some feedback, Bob, I do think this belongs really on our rules and procedures and not amended to this. And I would say that a lot of times what has happened is that when public comment has been brought before the city council on the first reading, it exposes some issues that none of us could understand from the packet. Right.
 And so at that point we say, oh, wow, I didn't realize there was a stream running through there. I didn't realize there was a cell tower. I didn't realize there was a different kind of topography or layout. And so at that point we've,
 Listen to the citizens. We've gone out there sometimes and taken a tour. I really would like to keep that option open. So I would not be in support of this, but I do really feel that it is much more appropriate in our rules and procedures discussion.
 I WANT TO THANK ALL MY FELLOW CONSULT MEMBERS FOR THEIR FEEDBACK. I APPRECIATE IT. I AGREE THAT THIS IS PROBABLY WITH BLAKE'S SUGGESTION AND EVERYBODY ELSE'S THAT THIS BELONGS NOT ON THIS BUT ON THE RULES AND PROCEDURES. I'M WILLING TO SOFTEN THE LANGUAGE. I DO UNDERSTAND THOSE ARE GREAT POINTS EVERYBODY BROUGHT UP AND I UNDERSTAND THAT.
 My intention was just maybe when we can, just trying to do our due diligence. If we think we're gonna need something that we do our due diligence as quickly and efficiently as possible. But so Blake, I'll withdraw that from any consideration for what's at hand now, and then figure out at a later date if I wanna bring that forward. You can put it on next agenda, Bob.
 Yeah, I'm watching now. All right, everybody good? Mayor, I think really the only changes are in Section 3 and Section 5. And in Section 3, we're changing the task force to 7 to 11 members to be appointed by the mayor and to open up that language on expertise and also say or demonstrated interest in those areas. And then in Section 5, just to clarify that staff report to the mayor.
 anybody good and then the title you're all okay with the title right all right all right thank you for this opportunity mayor i we all appreciate it and thank you for your input