I want to call to order the April 2nd, 2024 City Council meeting. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Lederker. Here. Vernon. Here. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Stafford. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to...
 with the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening, everyone. First order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is through February, so that's the second period of 2024.
 First, we'll talk about the general fund as we reported. As I reported to you at the agenda session, the sales tax is down 5% so far through the first two months.
 Alcoholic beverage licenses and beverage sales are down roughly 10% at the end of February. Building permits at that time were down 20%, however, we're seeing a comeback very rapidly in March. So through now, if I look at March rather than strictly reporting on February, we'll be about even with building permits to our budget.
 Franchise fees are up about 5%. Charges for services are up. They're doing pretty well. They're up about 17%. That's driven by a lot of our parks programs at this point in time. Interest earnings are up a bit, and court fees are up a bit.
 All in all, we're down totally in the general fund, roughly 4% at this point in time. Hopefully, that'll start picking up. Remember, we did have a little bad weather in the first month, and some of that extended into February. So, again, that's first two months of the year, and we'll be carefully monitoring that coming forward, and I'll be reporting on it. But let's talk about the street fund next.
 Street fund, remember, most of the income from the street fund is coming from the sales tax allocated to streets. Also coming from the turn back, which is for a motor fuel tax based on the sales of gasoline. And that's flat at this point in time compared to the budget.
 Parking is up compared to last year, however it's down a little bit compared to the budget right now, down about 2%. That's the parking fund. HMR taxes were weak during the first two months. They were actually down about 3% year-to-date at this point in time. As we go forward to water and sewer, water and sewer is pretty
 pretty stable, pretty level. It's down a little under 1% at this point in time. Recycling and trash collection is down 2%. Most of that is
 for lower activity on the transfer station, pull charges, etc. Airport has been down, although their flights are picking up, and right now their flights are only 2% down to last year. Their revenue is in fact down 17% when compared to last year, remember as the revenue pulls down.
 Again, the expense of the gasoline goes down, but that is down at this point in time. We'll be carefully monitoring these things going forward through the monthly reports, and I'll certainly be talking to you about sales tax at the agenda sessions, and with that, I'll be happy to answer questions if there are any. What questions do we have, Paul, on finance support? Okay. Okay, thank you, Paul. Does anybody know what that is? Yes.
 okay me either all right there we go that was just for y'all's entertainment all right now the next order of business is the consent agenda number one approval of the march 19 2024 city council meeting minutes number two resolution to award bid number 24-23 and to authorize contract with most construction
 LLC in the amount of two million four hundred seventy nine thousand seven hundred and seventy five dollars for construction of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center expansion to approve project tenancy in the amount of one hundred and twenty three thousand nine hundred and eighty eight dollars and eighty five cents and to approve the budget adjustment this is 2019 park improvement bond project and
 3. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $3,550 recognizing donation revenue from residents and local businesses to the Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs Department.
 4. A resolution to approve the purchase of tires, tubes, and services on an as-needed basis pursuant to the National Association of State Procurement Officials' Value Point Cooperative Purchasing Agreement through June 30, 2024 and any future renewal periods.
 Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Chevrolet 1500 Silverado from Superior Chevrolet of Solomon Springs pursuant to Ordinance 6491 in the amount of $43,575 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number six, a resolution to approve the purchase of two electric vehicles from Lewis Automotive Group in the total amount of $123,249 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original price pursuant to Ordinance 6491 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number 7, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the Drying as a Service Agreement with Griffin Residuals LLC, in the total amount of $91,668.69 for the purchase of a hopper and conveyor for the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC in an amount not to exceed $70,500 for additional bidding and construction phase services associated with the 24-inch water line replacement project.
 Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 2424, an authorized contract with Goins Enterprises, Inc., in the amount of $3,856,107.50 for the replacement of a water line from Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
 to South School Avenue to approve project tenancy in the amount of $73,392.50 and to approve budget adjustment. Number 10, a resolution to approve a contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 24-01, selection number 6.
 in an amount not to exceed $183,285 for design services associated with Phase I improvements to Bryce Davis Community Park, to approve Project Intensity in the amount of $10,000 and approve budget adjustments.
 11. A resolution to approve a two-year professional services agreement with 120 Water Audits Incorporated for water service line inventory compliance services in the amount of $55,000 per year. 12. A resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $608,317 to utilize funds for
 completed sewer rehabilitation project to purchase water meters number and number 13 a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of fourteen thousand six hundred and thirty four dollars recognizing hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget I will entertain a motion except consent agenda is read so move second motion second except consent agenda is read here would you please call the roll
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Stafford? Yes. All right, thank you all. Now let's go to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 50.04, depositing on vacant lots of the federal code to an
 include a prohibition on dumping mulch compost fill dirt and brush on vacant lots in the city this was uh left on the first reading i think it was red yes and theresa vicious yes thank you mayor um
 So we had an ordinance review meeting last night to discuss this issue. And I don't know if Holly's online. She's the chair of the ordinance review, and maybe she might want to give a summary of our discussion. Okay, sure. Thanks, Teresa.
 Yeah, we talked about a couple different things last night and we're trying to decide where we really want this, like what section of code we want to look at for this particular item. So the committee made a couple suggestions to staff and staff is going to take it under review and do a couple more additions. And then we would like to table this until, I think we said three months.
 don't remember the exact date that we said we wanted to table this for, but we wanted to give staff the time that they needed to review this. And then we wanted to have one more ordinance review meeting to talk about the proposed changes and then make a recommendation to Council.
 Okay, so I guess we would leave it on the first reading and table it for three months? We don't need to read it. And I think the Ordinance Review Committee thought that the second meeting in July was when they wanted to have it tabled to. Okay, so we just have a motion to table for three months. Thank you, Kit. Thank you.
 That would be great, Mayor. Okay, so somebody give me a table thing here. Motion to table until the second meeting of July. Second. We have a motion and a second to the second week of July. Is that what it comes to? Second meeting of July. Okay. Any comments or anything? Carriage, please call the roll. That date of the meeting will be July 16th. Okay, thank you.
 And who was the motion and second? Sarah made the motion and then Teresa seconded it. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Furness? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move on to number two.
 An ordinance utilizing the issuance and sale of a not to exceed $85 million water and sewer system revenue bond series 2024 by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost
 planning, designing, acquiring, constructing, equipping certain water transmission line improvements providing for the payment of the principle of the servicing fee on it on the bond authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bond and prescribing other matters relating thereto. Kip? Mayor? Well about this time. What?
 For a bond ordinance, I launch into it. It's one of the longest ordinances I get to read. This is a little different situation. This bond ordinance has about five pages of tables that talk about every payment of the 240 payments we're going to make.
 throughout the life of this bond for 20 years and so I would request that the City Council waive the rule to require that the entire ordinance be read in
 and allow me not to read those five pages of tables that talk about each of the 240 pavements that are being made on this bond, but I'll read the rest of the bond once that ordinance has been. Okay. Mayor, I'd make a motion that we suspend the rules and allow Kit to forego the five pages of tables. Second. We have a motion and a second to, I don't know, table the five, not read the five pages of the bond.
 All right. Is that good? All right. Please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Thank you very much. Now I'll read the ordinance.
 Arkansas, the city, a city of the first class, presently owns and operates a public water and sewer utility system, the system, serving the residents of the city and its environments. And whereas the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas has determined that there is a great need for a source of revenue to finance the cost of the planning, design, acquisition, construction, and equipping of certain improvements to the system, the city
 including specifically the planning, design, acquisition, engineering, construction, and equipping of a 48-inch water transmission line from the Beaver Water District to the City, together with related improvements to the project. Whereas an engineering report and plans for the specifications of the project have been examined by the City Council and copies of such reports, plans, and specifications are on file with the City and are available for inspection by any interested person.
 and whereas the city is authorized and empowered under the provisions of the constitution and laws of the state of arkansas including particularly amendment 65 to the constitution and arkansas code annotated section 14 164 401 at sec and section 14 234-201 at sec and sections 14-235-201 at sec collectively and as from time to time amended
 referred to as the authorizing legislation to issue and sell its water and sewer revenue bonds and to expend the proceeds thereof to finance the cost of planning, design, acquisition, construction, equipping, improving, maintaining, operating, and repairing the system.
 and whereas as authorized under provisions of amendment 65 and the authorizing legislation and in order to secure the funds necessary to pay or reimburse all over a portion of the funds of the project and the cons costs incidental to the issuance of the bond to finance the cost of the project upon the most favorable terms to the city and users of the system the city has made arrangements for the sale of its water and sewer revenue bond series 2024 the bond
 in a principal amount not to exceed $85 million to the Arkansas Development Finance Authority as purchaser, the bondholder, at a price of par which bond shall bill interest in the rate of 0% per annum pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement among the City, the Bondholder, and the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission, which Bond Purchase Agreement has been presented to and is before this meeting.
 And whereas an open public hearing on the question of the issuance of the bond and the financing of the project has been held before the Mayor and City Council on March 19, 2024, following the publication of notice of such hearing in the Northwest Arkansas edition of the Arkansas Democrat Gazette on February 25, 2024, and whereas a city will also be required to pay the Arkansas Development Finance Authority as servicer with respect to the
 servicer a monthly service fee equals to three quarters of one percent per annum of the outstanding principle of bond this is the servicing fee now therefore be it ordained by the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one the project shall be accomplished and shall be part of the system and
 The accomplishment of the project shall be under control and supervision of, and all details in connection therewith shall be handled by the City, and the City shall make all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and executions of its power.
 The City shall let all contracts pertinent to and in accordance with the existing laws, and shall require performance bonds and insurance from the contractors as in the judgment of the City, will fully ensure completion of the project in accordance with the plans and specifications therefor. The Mayor is hereby authorized to take, or cause to be taken, all action necessary to accomplish the project, and to execute all required contracts in connection thereto. Section 2.
 The sale to the bondholder of up to $85 million in principal amount of the bond at a price of par, such bond to bear interest at the rate of 0% per annum and to be subject to a servicing fee of 0.75% per annum and otherwise be subject to the terms and provisions here under this ordinance set forth in detail B and is hereby approved and the bond is hereby sold to the bondholder.
 The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a bond purchase agreement on behalf of the City, and to take all action required on the part of the City to fulfill its obligations under the bond purchase agreement. The bond purchase agreement is hereby approved and substantially the form submitted to this meeting, with such changes as may be approved by the Mayor, is execution to constitute complete evidence of such approval.
 Section 3. The City Council hereby finds and declares that the period of the usefulness of the system after completion of the project will be more than 25 years, which is longer than the term of the bond. Section 4. Under the authority of the Constitution and laws of the State of Arkansas, including particularly Amendment 65 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and the authorizing legislation,
 The City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond Series 2024, the bond is hereby authorized to be issued in the total principal amount of not to exceed $85 million. The proceeds are to sell of which are necessary to provide sufficient funds to pay or reimburse a portion of the cost accomplishing the project, including without limitation legal fees and other necessary expenses incidental to the accomplishment of the project and to the issuance of the bond.
 The bond shall bear interest at a rate of 0% per annum and shall be subject to a servicing fee of 3 quarters of 1% per annum upon a 360 day year of 12 consecutive 30 day months. The bond shall be dated on the date of its delivery to the bondholder. The servicing fee only shall be payable monthly commencing on the first day of the month following the issuance of the bond and continuing on the first day of each month thereafter
 through and including april 1 of 2027 the principal and servicing fee shall be payable on may 1st 2027 and on the first day each month thereafter until the unpaid principal is paid in full the totals will be uh payments of 91 million 560 825 dollars and 25 cents to fully pay off this 85 million bond
 The bond shall be issued in a form of a single typewritten bond registered as both the principal and interest payable to the bondholder or registered as signs and set forth hereafter in the bond form and shall be numbered R24-1.
 Payment of the principal and servicing fee shall be by check or draft mailed to the bond holder at its address Shown on the bond registration books of the city which shall be maintained by the finance director as bond registrar Without presentation or surrender of the bond except upon final payment and such payments shall discharge the obligation of the city to the extent thereof the finance director or his or her destiny shall keep a payment record and make proper notation thereon of all payments of the principal and servicing fee
 Payment of the principal and servicing fee shall be in any coin or currency of the United States of America, which, as of the time of payment, shall be a legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America. When the principal of the bond has been fully paid, it shall be canceled and delivered to the finance director. Section 5.
 The bond shall be executed on behalf of the City by its Mayor and City Clerk, and shall be impressed thereon the seal of the City. The principle of the bond and servicing fee in connection therewith are secured by a pledge of and are payable from revenues derived by the system. The City covenants and agrees that all revenues will be accounted for separately as special funds on the books of the City, and said revenues will be deposited and will be used solely as provided herein.
 The bond is not a general obligation of the City, but is a special obligation, the principle of which and the servicing fee in connection therewith are secured by the pledge of the revenues. The principle and interest on the bond shall not constitute an indebtedness of the City within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
 Section 6. The bond shall be in substantial form and the Mayor and Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to make all recitals contained therein. The registered owner of the bond shall be the Arkansas Development Finance Authority and the principal amount shall be $85 million.
 And it shall state that the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby acknowledges itself to owe and for value received promises to pay to the Arkansas Development and Finance Authority are registered as signs, but solely from the special fund provided therefore and set forth in lawful money in the United States of America, the principal amount shown above and so much of the principal amount as shall be advanced upon the shown on the record of payment as advances here attached here to.
 A servicing fee of three quarters of a percent per annum shall also be payable by the city to the Arkansas Department Development Finance Authority or successor in the same manner dates as principal hereof.
 A servicing fee only shall be payable in monthly commencing on the first day of the month following the issuance of the bond and continuing until the first day of the month thereafter through and including April 1st, 2027. And the principal and servicing fee shall be payable on March, on May 1st, 2027 and on the first day of each month thereafter until the unpaid principal is paid in full.
 Payments of the principal due hereunder shall be made, except for the final payment, without presentation and surrender of this bond, directly to the registered owner at its address shown in the registration book the City has maintained by the Finance Director or his or her designee as the bond registrar, and such payment shall fully discharge the obligation of the City to the extent of the payment so made.
 The bond is issued for the purpose of one, providing financing for a portion of the costs of planning, designing, acquiring, engineering, constructing, and equipping a 48-inch water transmission line from the Beaverwater District to the city, together with related improvements to the project, and two, paying the costs of authorizing and issuing this bond, and it's issued pursuant to and in full compliance with the Constitution and laws of the State
 including particularly amendment 65 to the Arkansas Constitution of the state of Arkansas and the Arkansas code annotated 16-4 1 at SEC 14-2 34-2 a1 at SEC and 14-2 35 and
 It's collectively known as the authorizing legislation pursuant to this ordinance of the Duly City authorized and approved probably this day of 2024, which is the authorizing ordinance.
 References hereby made to the authorizing ordinance for the details of the nature and extent of the security and of the rights and obligations of the city and the registered owner of this bond. This bond may be assigned with the written approval of the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission. And in order to effect such assignment, the assigner shall promptly notify the finance director by registered mail and the assignee shall surrender this bond along with a written assignment and written approval of the commission to the finance director for transfer on the registration records.
 Every assignee shall take this bond subject to all payments and prepayments of principles as reflected in the payment record maintained by the finance director prior to such surrender for transfer. This bond may be prepaid at the option of city from funds at each source in whole but not in part at any time on or after October 15, 2034 at a prepayment price equal to the principal amount outstanding plus the accrued service fee for the prepayment date.
 Notice of any prepayment shall be given to the registered owner of the bond at least 90 days prior to the prepayment date. Such notice shall be in writing, mailed to the address of the registered owner of this bond, at the address appearing on the bond registration records maintained by the finance director."
 This bond does not constitute an indebtedness of the City or the State of Arkansas within the meaning of any constitutional, statutory limitation or provision, and the taxing power of the City is not pledged to the payment of the bond, a principle of or interest on this bond.
 This bond is not a general obligation of the City, but it's a special limited obligation. The payment of the principal of and servicing fee are payable solely from the revenues derived from the operation of the City's public water and sewer system. A sufficient amount of revenues to pay the principal of the bond or related servicing fee has been pledged and shall be duly set aside as a special fund for that purpose identified as a DADFA bond fund in the authorizing ordinance.
 The City has fixed and covenanted and agreed to maintain rates for the use of the system which shall be sufficient at all times to at least provide for the payment of the reasonable expenses in operation and maintenance of the system, to provide for the payment of the principal of and interest of all outstanding obligations to which the revenues are pledged,
 as the same before become due to establish and maintain any required debt service reserves and provide an appreciation fund, all is set forth in the authorizing ordinance. This bond is issued with the intent that the laws of the state of Arkansas will govern its construction.
 No recourse shall be had for the payment of principal or premium, if any, or interest on this bond for any claim based thereon or upon any obligation covenant agreement contained in the bond or authorizing ordinance against any past, present, or future council member, officer, or employee of the city or any council member, officer, or employee of any successor of the city, and as such,
 either directly or through the city, any successor of the city, under any rule of law or equity, statute or construction, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such council member, officer, or employee as such is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition and consideration for the issuance of this bond. It is hereby certified, recited, and declared.
 that all acts, conditions, and things required by the Constitution and statutes of the State of Arkansas to exist, happen, and be informed present to and in the issuance of this bond do exist, have happened, and have been performed in due form, time, and manner as required by law, that the indebtedness represented by this bond does not exceed or violate any constitutional or statutory limitation of indebtedness,
 and that the provision has been made for the payment of the principle of an interest on this bond as provided by the authorizing ordinance. In witness whereof, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, has caused this bond to be executed in its name by the manual signatures of the Mayor and City Clerk, thereunto duly authorized and as corporate sealed to be fixed hereunder as of the appropriate date. That's it. Okay. Thank you.
 Paul, would you like to add something to that? Well, absolutely. We've discussed this before. This is for the 48-inch water line. We've had a public hearing on it. So that's what it's all about. This is you authorizing us issuing bonds. A lot of this is technical language. This was worked on by the city attorney's office.
 by our bond counsel, Gordon Wilburn, who is in the audience. In case you've got any technical questions, we've all worked on this, and it expresses many of our responsibilities with this bond issue. Essentially, we issue one bond, we place it with the Arkansas Natural Resource Commission. By doing this, we'll pay it over a 20-year period. There is zero interest on the bond.
 There's a fee of three quarters of a cent, .75 is the fee on it. I would estimate that at today's interest rates, we're probably saving the water and sewer users up to $20 million in interest costs over that time. The total interest costs are estimated here to be under $7,000.
 There's a lot of work for the city. There's a lot of things we have to do and a lot of disclosures, but it's certainly worth it to get that type of savings for our water and sewer fee payers. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions or if you have any real technical
 questions, we can ask our bond council to address those. And with that, I would also request that the city council considering passing that on three readings tonight so we can move forward with this because we do have a timetable to meet. With that, I'll be happy to entertain questions. Okay. Sarah. Sarah.
 Mine might be a city attorney question. The ordinance that you read versus what I, and I refreshed it, I believe, it's the copy that's in the packet. I believe on specifically on page 12, the bottom paragraph, I see that it says the city maintained by the city clerk as bond registrar. I believe you stated finance director or finance personnel throughout.
 And in the copy, I didn't know if in the packet is the official or if what you read into the record is our official ordinance that we'd be passing or if we might need to make an amendment there because I see several references through there to the city clerk potentially.
 Are you saying that I did not read the ordinance on that particular section correctly and I put in the city clerk's name instead of the finance director? Well, you've read the finance director, but the copy that I'm seeing in the public packet states city clerk. Well, go ahead.
 So the original one that we had submitted that we had drafted had the city clerk on some of those with those responsibilities however those Responsibilities are actually performed by my divisions function. So those were changed in the one that kit read
 thank you for explaining do we need to make an amendment as well then or no as read no i don't think that's a problem that was updated to to make it more correct uh there's other you might have noticed also that i did not read alderman i said city council members because that's what you are you're not alderman anymore by state law so that was another minor change that that i read in the
 in the ordinance, but it doesn't affect its validity whether they're council members or aldermen. So, but anyway, thanks for paying a lot of attention on that, but it was updated and I read the updated version. Anything else? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us is in the chamber on the bond we have before you tonight. Do you have anyone on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Then I will bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second I'd like to add that we only require him to read the title yes yes I don't think we will want to go through that quite again oh okay yes great mayor I think that's a wonderful
 section six and no further other section numbers i was told this was the right
 We need just a minute, Mayor, where there were two of these bond ordinances, and apparently maybe there's going to be additional sections for the one that was, I guess, done secondly that I was told this was the right one to read, but let's take a look at it.
 Now Paul you need to open up your computer. The ones I see two ordinances there and neither one of them has what you showed me there. What do we need to do here? Do we need to tell you? I mean I can go ahead and read this. Okay. But we need to get the circuit. Evidently the full bond ordinance was not placed into civic clerk. Well I'm just trying to figure out what we need to do here.
 Okay here's what I have. So which one of these should I click on? See these are my options. I have two of them. So what else should I be clicking on? I just don't know Mike what we're going to do here. Do y'all want me to move on?
 I mean, do you need for me to move on to the next item? The problem is we do have kind of a timetable and he's read half of it, which it would behoove us if he could read the additional half. Okay. We probably have time for a haircut.
 Would you all like a break? Thank you.
 Yeah, go ahead. Looks like we're going to be a little while. I'll gavel when we need to come back. We're going to table this item until later on in the evening because there's a lot of folks out here to speak and we don't want to keep them all night.
 so somebody give me a motion to take the motion to suspend the rules and table this until the end of the meeting end of unfinished business that way we'll get to it quicker there and what would she say that was councilmember bunch making that motion second all right we have motion second table this item until
 Until the end of unfinished business until the end of unfinished business, okay All right care which police called wrong Jones yes more yes, we'd occur yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Stafford yes, okay, let's move on to number three. I
 resolution to declare a housing crisis in the city of federal deandre good evening uh mayor and city council and I believe after the meeting after the meeting we had on last week I'm not a I'm not privy or aware of any changes um I'm not sure how to proceed uh because we did discuss um
 some things last week. So as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, Kit. No, no, I was just. Okay. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't heard anything from any community members. So the last information that I received, everything is good to go based on the meeting that we had on last week.
 My understanding is that you all had a workshop meeting. Yes. Yes, or you can considered all this and Blake had tried to put together basically your thoughts in this Resolution that has been sent to you. Yeah, I also have here on the table for you and If you are in agreement with this then this is what an amendment is
 to move yours and put this in its place so you could move to amend yours and substitute this in its place and then you could act on this resolution. Okay, so are you saying that I need to make that motion right now? That would be appropriate. Okay, just wanted to make sure. Okay, I make the motion that we accept the amendments to this new housing crisis resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second.
 All right, so we're going to put all these amendments in to the original yes d3. Yeah, okay This will be amended to it incorporates most of the ideas that the council had and incorporates and do this one resolution Okay. All right. Well, let's do that first care which please go down. Yes more. Yes Yes, I know yes, I
 Yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Yes, okay. Now we're to the amended or Resolution so what are there any there note changes to be made? I don't have any changes to be made there Nothing has been brought to my attention since the last meeting that we had so based on our
 Based on what I'm what I know this is this shit This is sufficient unless someone else tonight has amendments that they yeah Council So we had the work session and this is what everybody was talking about now We will have public comment on the amended resolution so
 So this came out of the conversation from the work session, correct? Yes. Okay. That's right. Just wanting to make sure that we're all on the same page because a lot of things have been moving forward. So just wanting to make sure that we're. Okay. What other discussion would we like to have? Okay. Then, well, we'll take some public comment then. Okay. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Come on up. Good afternoon. Katie Bright, residing in Ward 3. Two weeks ago, I had the opportunity to stand here. I ran up the stairs. Give me a second. Okay.
 and reveal the difficulties posed by our housing crisis through sharing my personal story as to many others. First and foremost, I want to express my appreciation for the diligent work of our city council members. It heartens me to witness the hard questions being asked as it reassures that, as it reassures me that our situation is being carefully considered from every angle. It's okay. Sorry.
 WE UNDERSTAND THAT THE RESOLUTION WE PROPOSED IS NOT AN IMMEDIATE FIX. IT WILL TAKE TIME. BUT THE FACT THAT WE ARE BEING HEARD IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION. MANY OF US SHARED OUR STRUGGLES WITH RENTAL PROPERTIES AND THE COST WE FACE. YET DESPITE THESE CHALLENGES, WE FIND OURSELVES TRAPPED IN THESE CONDITIONS BECAUSE WE SIMPLY CANNOT AFFORD TO LEAVE NOR IS THERE ENOUGH HOUSING FOR US TO CHOOSE FROM. THE COST ASSOCIATED WITH MOVING FROM EXPENSES TO DEPOSITS, THE AMOUNT OF EXTREMELY COMPETITIVE
 MAKE IT DEARLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR US TO SEEK ALTERNATIVE HOUSING OPTIONS. I HOPE TO NOT ONLY SPEAK FOR MYSELF, BUT TO ALSO STAND HERE AS A VOICE FOR THOSE IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO CANNOT BE PRESENT TODAY. I ASK YOU TO VOTE YES ON THIS HOUSING CRISIS RESOLUTION. WHILE IT MAY NOT OFFER AN IMMEDIATE FIX, IT SIGNIFIES PROGRESS. IT OPENS THE DOOR FOR EXPERTS TO EVALUATE AND IMPLEMENT SOLUTIONS FROM VARIOUS PERSPECTIVES. I ASK THE COUNCIL TO CONSIDER THE GRAVITY OF OUR SITUATION AND THE IMPACT IT HAS ON OUR COMMUNITY
 I am filled with apprehension at the thought that without addressing these issues, our city may falter. If we as residents struggle to afford basic living expenses, how can we possibly support the local businesses that give our city its character, invest in its growth, or even assist our own neighbors when the need arises? Your vote holds the power to initiate change, to alleviate the burdens we face, and to pave the way for a brighter future. Thank you for bearing with me.
 Thank you. It's okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who else would like to address this? Hello, Mayor. If nobody else is coming up, Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. Last time, two weeks ago, I implored you to remember the two hours of comment and stories that you'd heard until you finally got back to making a decision on this.
 Tonight, I just want you to think back one week to Councilmember Weedicker's phenomenal presentation which I need to apologize I haven't responded to your email from last week, but thank you for sending me the video clip and I apologize for writing that response in my head three times and never hitting send. In his presentation, he did a fantastic job of
 Well, outlining how we got to where we are, but also of including a certain panache for corny humor that I always forget to bring to my numbers, so thanks for that also. It laid out a fantastic understanding of how we got to where we are in our housing crisis that pairs really well with the numbers that the staff report provided last August for quantifying the housing crisis.
 He pointed out a lot of the things that the city is not in control of and some of the things that the city is in control of. There are opportunities there for action.
 One thing that he included was an example of a LIHTC project that I had forgotten about two weeks ago when I identified the two things we've done that were pro-housing. There is a third. That cobblestone farms project required the city to expedite some annexation work so that they can qualify for their LIHTC permit. And so thank you to the council for supporting that back in 2019.
 I hope that you won't get bogged down trying to amend that into the recognitions, but it does need to be recognized. He also recognized that this is the city has many priorities and housing is one of them. And then your two perspectives. Uh,
 point was, I think, maybe the most compelling. Because from one perspective, maybe from your perspective, housing is just one of your many responsibilities. But for the folks who came up and talked to you two weeks ago, for many of them, it is their only crushing responsibility that has to be addressed before they can do any of the other things in their life. And so your decision tonight and going forward is going to be how you're going to prioritize their interests,
 whether you're going to prioritize real housing solutions in helping take the burden off of the community so that they can get back to the other things that are also important in their life and their list of responsibilities. So I hope you'll support this tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi, I'm Anna Hurley, 215 South Block Avenue, and I'm in Ward 2. I just wanted to say thank you guys for the work you've done on this resolution to the community as well. But then once it got brought forth for the work everybody did to make it something that...
 you all feel comfortable with I think and hope As in I hope you all vote yes to pass this resolution I was also really inspired by the desire of the council to find a way to work together It seemed like that was everyone's priority to be a council that stood together and created a united front for the people and I think that that's really important and was really inspiring to see so thank you for
 hearing us and caring and hopefully taking action so thanks thank you who else would like to address that was tiffany fayetteville um i the only point that i kind of wanted to add to what all that has been said in the past to city council meetings
 to emphasize that the way that I really feel like a staff person whose job was housing could benefit the city and I I
 I hope people are realizing that somebody who shares the vision that you have and that I have for a Fayetteville where the people are thriving, the companies are thriving, the landscape is thriving around us, that the vision that we have really is at a point where we really do need a little bit of expertise in specific directions in order to be able
 get past some kind of a barrier that we are all struggling with about this housing issue and there really are fields that have a lot of expertise in city design and working with both developers on one hand and little nonprofits on the other and try to put everything together into a package where I
 the grants come into alignment and the design and the access to all the different pieces that need to come together in order for there to be low-income housing in Fayetteville really does happen in a good way with a little bit of expertise that we just don't quite have now. And I hope that doesn't, that's not meant to step on anybody's toes. You know, there are a lot of knowledgeable people in our city government
 But at the same time, there are things that we don't know. And it's clear when we keep getting roadblock after roadblock and it's been so confusing. But I know that our vision is such a beautiful place and such a beautiful option for our city to become what all of us really want it to be.
 with a little bit of help. And I'm hoping, and I know that this particular piece, the staff position for housing is not necessarily what we're voting on tonight. But I do think if we are thinking about what happens down the road when it's time to put that into play, how very important that that could be for us. Thank you guys. Who else would like to address us? Good evening.
 My name is Heather Sir, 13475 Green Road. I'm actually out of the county. I would love to move back into Fayetteville, but as soon as I moved out here, my house was sold that I was renting, and they decided to triple it for the pricing for rent. So one of these days, I can hopefully make it back, and that's why I want to speak with you all.
 Having a person that specializes in housing is really important because one of the biggest things is a lot of landlords are actually getting away with things that they aren't doing by overpricing everybody out by reinvestments. By having somebody specialize in that, it will really help the city be able to focus on what the problems are instead of just somebody that doesn't know and gets thrown into positions.
 So I think it's a great idea and I do highly support this effect that you guys want to be doing. With specialized positions, that's the reason why we go to a doctor. They know what they're doing. Having this coalition, they will know what they're doing. They'll actually come up with more ideas, be able to work with more people to get more of a focus on it instead of being spread thin, which we all have to do with work, right? Or at least hopefully you aren't if you have a good employer. Thank you.
 And so I highly support this. I really hope that everything goes well and always ask more of the public for ideas because we've all been through it and we all have to brainstorm every day how to do our budget, right? So thank you very much for this obligation. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, my name is Taylor McKinney. I'm at 2821 Cottonwillow in Ward 1. I don't have anything to say that hasn't already been said. I just want to say thank you for hearing us out and for looking for solutions to the housing crisis so tirelessly. Your servitude is inspiring and I'm grateful to call Fayetteville home. I want to continue to do so for many, many years to come. Voting yes on this resolution makes that possible for myself and so many others. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Do you have any... Hello, my name is Gideon Durzon and I live at 1530 North Pershing Street. Over the past few weeks I've been so heartened to hear how much the City Council is thinking about this resolution. Could I get you to pull your mic up just a little bit? Sorry, is this better? Oh no, it's fine. Awesome.
 Over the past few weeks I've been so heartened to hear how much the City Council is thinking about this resolution and I've been so grateful to see everyone work together to make a resolution that you hopefully believe is worth voting yes to. I'm very excited to see what the task force is capable of in the long term and desperately want to restate how much this matters to the people I know who are unable to be here to tell you themselves. Thank you so much for all of your efforts to support the future of this city and all of the people who seek housing inside of it. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, my name is Solomon. I live at South Washington Avenue here at Fayetteville. I just want to also say thank you for the work that was put into the session to combine the best from the different resolutions.
 I want to add my voice to the dozens of renters who showed up two weeks ago, standing in for thousands of renters struggling to pay rent in a city that as yet doesn't have tenant protections and where there's so many people for whom housing really is at crisis levels. I hope that we can follow up from tonight's symbolic action into...
 the substantial steps needed. Hopefully the task force can help vet those best ideas so that we can have a housing market that we can influence through zoning reforms, through development fees and processes so that the market itself can help take care of as much of this crisis as it can.
 And we have great examples around the country to look at. And then plus the non-market forces, if we want below market rates, we have to have non-market actors involved in housing. So the public financing at every level of every jurisdiction level that is possible, public resources like land, those public tools we have to influence ultimately how affordable housing can happen. So thank you for your attention and to listening to this.
 the mobilized renter community and I hope we can build together a cohesive affordable housing strategy for Fayetteville thank you who else would like to address this who do you have on zoom Susan mayor no one on zoom has their hand raised whoops here we go okay Clark Eccles raised his hand come on up yeah I'm sorry I just called on Clark but I'll Clark if you'll
 We'll go ahead and folks if anybody else wants to speak on this you start to line up because I'm fixing to move it into The zoom thing. Yes, go ahead. Hi. My name is Ben Houston. I Apologize for not Korean speech. I wish I had My address is 5 to 7 harness Lane in Westport. My parents live in 2635 North St. George Drive and Congressmember Berna and bunches history I
 I would like to remind you of the extensive conversations that you all heard last week with the extensive people that are experiencing crisis. I am lucky enough to not be experiencing the crisis that they are, but I have heard their stories and I would just like to remind you of what you all heard last week. Thank you and I look forward to seeing this housing crisis passed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Jesse Buchanan. I live at 150 South Hill Avenue, just down the street. And I would like to thank you for your ability to listen and respond to the people of Fayetteville. Two weeks ago, I talked about the hope that I had when I first moved here and the growing fear that I had that I would not be able to stay here. And the growing fear that I had for my students as a Fayetteville high school teacher that they would not be able to stay here.
 And I truly believe that the amount of work that y'all put into listening to the people of Fayetteville and the amount of work you put into serving us by trying to come up with a solution or at least a start to some solutions for this housing crisis has given me a lot of that hope back. I do believe that we are.
 currently doing a lot of work as a city that is going to benefit my kids in the long term. And I really, really appreciate that. And I hope that you continue to contribute to that by voting yes on this resolution. Thank you. Thank you.
 Kimberly James, a couple of weeks ago I did come up and speak about the crisis and I am praying that you guys will consider it and voting yes. Since then I've learned two of my former neighbors had to move out of the city, far out of the city, because their rent was raised and they couldn't afford it and these were elderly people.
 One of them had to move to Little Rock, and I couldn't find out where the other one had to move to, basically because their rent was raised so much so to where they couldn't afford it on what they were getting from the government. Even though they attempted to talk to management at this particular building, there was no leave way. So on their behalf, even though they're now gone, and my behalf as a single parent,
 I'm asking for this resolution to be passed because it is hard for us all. I moved here not hoping to have to take a second and third job like I did where I moved from in Louisiana. I still have just the one job, thank God, but I do not want to have to get out there and take a second and third job just to be able to afford to stay here. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello. I'm Nate Wall, 3201 North Old Missouri Road. So literally in my job, I go into low-income communities and talk to them about the conditions, how they can afford it.
 are now, and it's hard to even, even encompass this, that people are living in multiple families, just trying to survive. Some people are, are, you know, they're living in a very, very poor environment.
 are on the brink of homelessness. Some people do have to leave, like Kim said, have to leave out of the city. I realize a lot of construction and stuff is going on. And I think that a lot of things have to be considered because these are people that can't even afford food. And as far as the task force, I'd like to know more about it.
 to see if we can help the citizens of Fayetteville and how that looks. I think, I don't know if we can even take care of the situation if we don't ask the people that's actually in the situation. So I hope y'all vote yes and let's do this all together. Thank you, Nick. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, I'm Jennifer Cole, Ward 2, and I live at Hillcrest Towers. I live in public housing. I serve all over the community in areas of need, and I see people living from paycheck to paycheck, many of them taking in extra people in their homes so that they're not homeless. We do have a crisis, and I know you've listened to hours of this, so I'll keep it short, but
 But thank you for considering everything and please vote yes on this resolution so that we can address all the needs and have a task force to focus on all of these needs. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Who do you have on Zoom? On Zoom, we have Clark Eccles. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Clark Echols and I live at 4011 North Highway 112. I'm speaking in support of this housing resolution. I work with international students at the University of Arkansas. My comments represent my own opinions and I don't speak for the university or the Office of International Students and Scholars. At the university we have nearly 1,200 international students from over 100 countries. International students are deeply affected by our current housing crisis.
 Legally, they are very limited in their ability to work.
 and most are unable to afford a car. This means that they have to find housing near enough to the university or along public transit routes in order to find housing, let alone affordable housing. Sorry, finding housing, let alone affordable housing is a challenge. I personally have a friend from Hong Kong who had to stay in a hotel for over a month before he could find an apartment when he first arrived, which drained him of his savings. And this is not a unique experience.
 And so I'm not asking for any changes to this resolution tonight, but as we address this housing crisis over the coming weeks, months, years, there are some things I'd like to see happen. Overturning residential parking minimums is a no brainer. We've already overturned commercial parking minimums and our national leaders in that. And so.
 These residential minimums, these arbitrary residential parking in homes can kill housing developments that could add hundreds of units of housing to our city. And it's not about banning parking, but it's just giving property owners the right to decide for themselves. How much parking they need we've already another thing I would like to see is is.
 Comprehensive zoning reform. We've already got a really great plan that you all have approved as part of the city plan 2040 and the growth concept happened. So I would like to see implementing that plan a strong priority. City planning staff are already doing an incredible job.
 projects like the business 71 project and the permit ready design program but i would like to see you all um prioritize comprehensive zoning reform you know our sister cities ben mill and rogers are doing that by hiring a consulting firm so that could be an option uh but also just making sure that we're we're giving really great salaries to our planning staff to retain them and
 adding funding to hire more planning staff to further implement the the growth concept map and the other plans that the city has should be a priority thank you thank you no one else on zoom has their hand raised at the moment all right well I'm gonna bring it back to the council all right what discussion would we like to have Sarah well I accidentally hit my button but I'll go first
 Thank you to all the community that's continued to start, well started a conversation, continued a conversation, and showed up so much and gave so much of themselves to share personal stories. It can be intimidating, it's incredibly courageous to share and be so you know kind of raw and vulnerable about what your situations are. And I want to thank my colleagues
 because I think it was mentioned by some of the speakers, but I think that many of us really tried to be very open and hear what was going on in our community as we've discussed this resolution. And I'm happy to be able to support it tonight. One of the things that I brought up in the past is that
 A task force is incredibly important, but oftentimes, you know, a task force is made up of individuals that have a lot of competing things happening in their lives. And so, in the day-to-day for additional research, for wrangling additional project needs outside of the hours of the task force, you really need a staff person that can really champion these projects if we really want to go with speed and urgency like I hear so many people indicating.
 So for that reason tonight I am motioning to amend this resolution and add a housing coordinator and I am hopeful that we can be supportive of that knowing that in order to make sure we can go fast and we can be efficient with the resources of this task force they're going to need staff to be able to support them.
 Okay, so you're doing an amendment to what we already have to add a housing coordinator, right? Well, that's my motion. I think it'd have to be seconded. Oh, yes, it does. Second. Okay. All right. What discussion would we like to have on that one? All right. Well, I guess we're ready to vote. Care to please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Jones?
 More? Yes. Whittaker? No. Burnham? No. Bunch? No. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Stafford? No. Okay. All right. Is there anything else? Yes. Mayor Jordan and my fellow city council members, this process has
 explained it at our very first council meeting discussing it how it all came about and Nate Wall stated again tonight. It's very important that if we're going to lead the people then we Building relationship building rapport and hearing from the people I think that that's that has to be the foundation and
 this past two, well, actually since the beginning of this whole, this entire process, beginning back in October, Fayetteville residents made themselves vulnerable. They talked about their, they shared a lot of information that I probably wouldn't have shared. And many of them sounded hopeless. And so, and you all heard those, many of those stories.
 over the past two weeks in addition we did the um the um the online petition and we had over 1300 people and uh we we received uh very similar comments and as far as i'm concerned when this was brought i was very um i'm going to be honest i text a cara and i said cara if it means that i
 have someone else to bring this forth because I'm a barrier and I'll do it. Because this is not about collecting a win for me. This is about the people. And I was elected to do a job and that's what I'm going to do. And it was very difficult. It became very emotional. But one thing drives me. One thing informs me that our residents need someone to advocate for them, not be adversarial.
 And I'm human. I was very emotional. I was very hurt. But I would not allow my feelings to interrupt and to throw this off course because this is bigger than me. There's a chance that I may not be in this seat next year. But the residents of Fayetteville need housing. This has nothing to do with my political platform. I think I've done enough. I think I do a pretty decent job.
 But it's not about me collecting a win. This is a win for all of us. This is a win for those 1,400 people that signed that petition. This is a win for those 34 people that came and spoke. This is a win for those people that spoke tonight. This is a win for all those people that came to those meetings. And city council members, this is a win for us. Our citizens now believe in government. They believe that government works for them.
 I hear so many people that say their council members don't listen to them. They don't care. Well, we proved them wrong. We gave them a space. We gave them an opportunity. And I appreciate that. And so I just want everyone to know this. I'm going to do what I have to do to advocate for what's in the best interest of not just black people in Fayetteville, but everyone in Fayetteville. I took an oath
 and I take it very seriously. I don't take it lightly. I'm not here to play politics. I'm here to do the work of the people and that's to advocate. And I hope that this passes tonight and I don't want anyone to look at this as a reflection of DeAndre or Sarah, but for the people of Fayetteville. That's what this is about. I did this because I believe that when we reach from the bottom, our community rises. And everything that I've done
 is influenced by that platform. So Mayor Jordan, I appreciate this opportunity and having this conversation. This is a difficult conversation, but I'm glad that we've made it this far and I'm confident that we will do the right thing. I'm very confident that we will do the right thing for the people of Fayetteville because they deserve it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Scott. Thank you, Mayor.
 I will be supporting this. However, I want to make sure as I did a week ago, really to speak to two weeks ago when when 35 people came, the overwhelming message was we needed rent assistance and we had issues in our apartments that were not being addressed by the landlords.
 This resolution is great, and the combined resolution made it even better because it does recognize the hard work that the mayor has done over the years, and our city staff, who are amazing, have done over the years to address this. But the overwhelming message two weeks ago was rent assistance and...
 habitability standards and one of the statements was that Harrison was the only city in the state that has habitability standards that concerned me. So I did some checking and I found that was not accurate So I want to make sure we I want to ask Jonathan about that where Fayetteville stands in our habitability standards and
 And if we do have issues, if the public does have issues, what process do they go by to address those issues? And then I have further comments. Thank you for the question. I think leading into my response, I think it is important that to make a distinguishment between what is a difficult thing for a lot of people to accept, which is that there is a difference between minimum habitability standards by building code and quality of life issues. And I don't want to say that
 One is necessarily more important than the other, but some are codified and are codified at both the state and the local level. It doesn't mean that one is less important than the other, but as a state, we've adopted certain standards that have said that these are the baseline requirements for a unit to be or a residential unit to be habitable. So with that in mind, we did adopt the International Property Maintenance Code in whole.
 very recently in the last few years. As a comparison to what Harrison Arkansas adopted, we again adopted it in whole Harrison, conversely has adopted certain portions of it. So if you were to try to make an apples to apples comparison, there are more standards that Fayetteville observes than are currently being observed in Harrison based on that code adoption. And when I get into the specifics about what is the difference between the quality of life and habitability issue,
 Habitability is a very baseline standard. It means a unit has heat, doesn't have air conditioning necessarily. It has warm water, it has cold water. It's able to have, it has its windows closed off or the building unit is enclosed. They're very baseline standards like that. It does not necessarily mean a room has a door on it, which is something that I've heard residents express frustration about inheriting a unit that doesn't have doors to a bathroom, which is very frustrating to them.
 so as far as what it looks like for a resident to be able to address that those codes come to or this concerns come to either the city's code compliance group or building safety division which are both actually one in the same they're in the same group because of their cross complementary roles
 A building inspector will go visit the property and make an assessment of whether those standards are being observed or not. If they're not, then we begin working with the property manager. If it's a one-off issue, it can usually be addressed immediately. Sometimes if it's a property-wide issue among multiple units, sometimes we have to work with the property owner management to develop a work plan to begin addressing those issues, but always moving forward towards taking care of them.
 So that's an overview of generally what we look at or what we are able to look at by code. We don't have what I think was referred to a few times as a certificate of habitability, or there are multiple different names in different municipalities throughout the country. We do not require that in Fayetteville. So when a tenant changes, where a renting tenant changes in a unit,
 We don't have a standard in Arkansas, or excuse me, in Fayetteville especially, where an inspector would go to that unit and observe that there are standards that are being met between occupants. So our standards are on a complaints basis. They're not a proactive inspection between tenants. So I hope that answers your questions, but please let me know if I missed something. Okay, thank you. And my last point I wanna make sure that we're very clear on so that people are not,
 misinformed about this resolution is the second point that overwhelming voice was they they needed written assistance and in this resolution in the short term it does not address that whatsoever and I am trying to you know please don't take this as insensitive I'm trying to be very clear on what we can do as City Council
 And we are restricted by state law on what we can and cannot do in that regard. And this resolution does not address rent assistance or anything like that. Now, we certainly, the staff works every day, and we as city council work to support them to try to improve the housing inventory in this city. But the reality is as long as the,
 the dirt cost is what it is the construction cost is what it is uh the the loan cost is what it is at this time it's very restrictive on what we can we can assist with and and the affordability of housing is going to be a challenge for a while so it's nothing that we do not push every day our staff is working tirelessly every day
 to address this and they have been working for over a year at the mayor's direction. So this is certainly something we want to keep on the radar and work diligently on. But I just wanted to make sure while voicing my support that I clear up exactly what I perceive as some of the
 misconceptions that may be out there in the public about the resolution. Thank you.
 Okay, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's very easy to support this merged joint resolution, so I thank everyone for that. I felt that last week's work session was not just productive, but that we had arrived at a consensus of the group, and that doesn't mean unanimous, but a consensus of the group.
 which I too support. And so I'm pleased to see this come forward, and I too would hope that we would adopt it post-haste. And thank you all for everyone's participation in that process. Thank you. Sure.
 I just didn't want to not address whenever we use different pronouns, and sometimes we don't know when we say we if it's collective and representative of the entire body. And so when Council Member Berno was talking about we heard these things, I heard a spectrum of stories personally. I heard lots of struggles in regard to housing stock,
 I didn't hear anyone tell me specifically they needed rental assistance. What I heard was housing isn't available in the ways that I need it. And so I guess I wanted to clarify as far as what my ears heard is that I heard a variety of the situations that are occurring, and that's why this is so complex and unfortunately can't be simplified.
 that it's going to take, you know, very concerted effort. And I wanted to recognize the complexity of the situation from all of those stories that came forward. Bob? I just want to say a few words. I'll try to keep it under three minutes. I want to first thank each and every person that either worked on this, that came up and spoke, that signed a petition, that made a comment.
 And this includes my fellow council members. Last week we got together and in good faith, worked together for quite a few hours to get this right. And I believe we did. I'm very happy with this. And I believe when we work together, this shows when we work together, we can do great things.
 My vote on the housing coordinator wasn't so much that I'm against having a housing coordinator, I'm for that, but after talking with city staff, after working with my fellow council members, I'm not one to let the perfect be the enemy of the good. I ran on addressing the housing crisis and I hope while seated that I get to make measurable strides in that effort and I want to stay true to my words.
 One of my own personal heroes, Harvey Milk, once said, you've got to give them hope. I believe this resolution does that. I believe it gives hope and more. It gives us a task force to help us find actionable solutions to the crisis at hand. It allows our mayor to work with staff to allocate resources, to identify stress points, and to hire additional staff if needed to reduce those stress points.
 It affirms to our citizens that we feel their pain, that we take their concerns seriously, and that we will actively work to address those concerns where we're able. It gives our citizens hope. And this is why the resolution has my support and my vote. Thank you. All right. Anything else? Okay, Daniel on Zoom. Well, you know, it's been quite a journey.
 And I really appreciated watching the council work together last Tuesday night. Y'all really did a fine job of working. I know that the Tuesday prior was a little on the exciting side. I told Susan the next day, I said, I'm going to call a workshop for the council and we're going to all get together and we're going to work on this thing. But also, I was so pleased with the way everybody worked together.
 And that's what it's all about at the end of the day, everybody working together. You know, it reminds me, there's saying that one will put a thousand to flight, but two will put ten thousand to flight. When there's unity, there's always a bond. And where that bond is, that's something that just doesn't get broken easily. And I was, we saw this occurring back about a year ago.
 I mean, I don't think I really realized the magnitude of how bad it was going to get, but it got bad fast. So the staff, and I want to give a shout out to the staff and the chief of staff. I believe I have as fine a staff as any mayor could ever ask for in any city in the United States, not just in the state of Arkansas.
 Well, we've had development services, long-range planning, community resources, economic vitality, public works, and water and sewer infrastructure. We started addressing those needs. Did we fix them? No, we haven't fixed them yet. But you know what I believe? With all of us working together, all of us, council, citizens, we have the right people.
 at the right place at the right time doing the right thing and i want to express that tonight i'm pleased with this council i'm pleased with my staff i'm thankful that we have citizens that let your voice be heard everybody needs to always show up step up and speak out and that's what you've done and we've heard you so thank you all thank everybody so with that cara let's vote
 There needs to be a motion to approve. I make the motion that we adopt the housing crisis resolution. Resolution. Second. We have a motion and second to adopt the housing crisis resolution. Caravage, please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Burnham. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Kirksburg. Yes. Stafford. Yes.
 Thank you all. Now, let's go on to number four. A resolution to summarize actions taken and anticipated to support housing production in the city of Federal Mike. Oh, thank you, Mr. Mayor. With the passage of the previous resolution, it would be my pleasure if we could table this resolution indefinitely. I'll second. Thank you.
 that a motion that's a motion to table this resolution indefinitely second oh I just second it yes yes more yeah yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes all right thank you all just this one time you can go ahead
 Thank you all. All right, let's go on to number five. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-0001 for approximately 6.31 acres located at 3003-006, RZN 24-0001.
 North Old Missouri Road in Ward 3 from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre NSG neighborhood services general and NC neighborhood conservation to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre and RA residential agricultural kit and
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre, NS-G neighborhood services general, and NC neighborhood conservation to RSF18 residential single family 18 units per acre and RA residential agricultural. Section two, the city council, city of Fayetteville, are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Jonathan. Thank you.
 thank you mayor jonathan kirth development services uh this property is in northeast fayetteville and ward three uh and as a brief reminder it's a request to rezone it uh from a mixed designation of zoning districts today of nc neighborhood conservation rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and nsg neighborhood services general to a two split designation of ra residential agricultural and rsf18 residential single family 18 units per acre
 At the last council meeting there was a request for additional time to consider the request with a specific proposal to understand a little bit more about the topography on the site.
 With that in mind, hopefully you had an opportunity to consider the exhibit that was attached to your council report. If you did not, I'll go over it very briefly here. What you see on the left-hand side shows the dimensions or the shape of the request. And then as you go to the right-hand side, you can see that overlaid with the contours on the property. These are one-fit interval contours, which is why you see so many of them. But it is also an indicator of a fair amount of slope on the property.
 You can see the areas outlined in dark green are those intended to be rezoned to RA, residential agricultural, which the applicant has indicated that that's to show an intent for tree preservation and areas not to be developed with the balance of the property rezoned to RSF 18.
 The slope on the property varies. There's a few gullies and steeper areas that range up to almost 20% in slope, which you can see especially in the southern and southwestern portion of the site. The remainder of the site still, however, has slopes of anywhere between 12 and 14% or so as you cross the property. There was also a request at the same meeting, at agenda session, to understand maybe what some topography in the surrounding area looks like for neighborhoods that have already been
 Considering that, you can see again the property in question here, just south of Butterfield Trail Elementary. Identified three areas in the area that are also a fair amount of slope, two to the southwest and one to the northeast.
 These were also included in your packet. You can see those in the different parts. The portions in the southwest are the left-hand and lower versions. Those range, again, quite a bit of slope as you come off the mountain just between College and Old Wire. The other one is to the northeast of the property with slopes, again, more similar to the existing site, ranging between about 12% and 13% and 20%.
 So I hope that's helpful in understanding the site that's being proposed as well as some nearby ones that have been developed and what that could look like. And as a reminder, staff is recommending approval of the request, the planning commission did forward it to city council, albeit by a split decision of five to two,
 In closing, there was one additional piece of public comment. If the council did not have an opportunity to see that, it expressed a specific opposition to apartments on this property. And I did want to clarify for the council that the proposed RSF 18 zone district does not allow attached residential uses by rights. So assuming the residents using apartments to mean attached residential, that is not something that's a part of this request. With that, I'm happy to take questions.
 And Mayor, I believe the applicant team, there's a few members online. It looks like Clay Morton is on Zoom, Mayor. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Go ahead, Clay. What do we got? Okay. Here we go. Okay. We're here. Okay.
 Am I here? You're here. We're here. Sorry about that. Okay. Clay Morton, resident of Fayetteville, the owner, developer builder on this project. The first phase was the stage station that you see running along Old Missouri there, and this is kind of our, we're working our way back, further back into the project. The...
 The intent here is to create a smaller lot so that we can build smaller houses which would also allow us to keep the price of those down. So that's our intent with this rezoning, but fully intend to build a single family house on each lot. And the idea of creating those
 um, agriculture areas or pre-preservation areas is, is so that we can cluster trees within the housing, um, so that, um, uh, again, just to be able to be responsible with the trees and preservation. Um, so that's the, that's why it's got, uh, the way it's kind of laid out that way with, um, not just a blanket rezone across that area. Um,
 But just as a citizen of Fayetteville for over 25 years, our intent here is to bring something to the market, a house that's more affordable, more attainable. So we also see what's going on with the market, see what's going on with the housing. And so this is our attempt to do our part as developers in Fayetteville. Happy to answer any questions.
 Thank you for your time. Okay, what questions do we have? And Mayor, there's also Blake Jorgensen who is representing. Well, they've got 10 minutes. All together, so now that would be five more. Okay, go ahead. Oh, good evening, council. I honestly, I don't have much more to offer. I just want to say I'm here available for comment. I came in late. Honestly, I had to go deal with a hot water issue.
 Father-in-law's hot water heater went out, so I told Clay and Phil I'm going to be back just in time, and here I am. So I just want to be transparent that I'm available. But Clay said everything I needed to say, so I'll leave it at that. Thanks for all your time tonight. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or staff?
 please thank you mayor um first of all i want to thank the developer for uh identifying some of these super steep areas and i um and trying to rezone those as ra and also with the clustering of trees i think that is a really smart move and i appreciate that um jonathan um i want to thank you for creating uh the topography and the overlays of this
 then you also had that additional information that I think Bob requested for similar residents with slopes in the area what was the zoning underlying zoning of those areas that you that you put in our packet do you have that do two are easy to answer the third is a little bit more complicated the ones to the southwest
 They're all zoned RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. The one to the northeast, however, has an unusual zoning history. It was done as a PUD, which is our predecessor to a PZD. So it is actually not built to the underlying RSF4 density or use standards. I think some of the units on the sample I gave in that one are actually duplexes as well.
 A lot of those are rezoned to a standard zoning district when several PUDs expired as a conversation we've had a lot recently. So they do all have a RSF4 zoning designation today. The Northeastern one was developed under a different standard originally, however, that allowed that higher densities.
 And with that one to the northeast, is that more like an RSF-8 or what would that be analogous to in our current zoning plans? That is difficult to assess. That's a good question. It may be helpful if I may pull it up again here briefly.
 If it's particularly visible here, it's the Huntington subdivision, east of Butterfield Trail. And there are large areas of that subdivision that were dedicated and set aside as open space. So it's not...
 really easy to make a conventional zoning calculation in that regard. So no, I don't have those numbers at my fingertips. I think if you included the open space areas, it might end up being a comparable density, but I can't say that with a high degree of confidence. Well, thank you so much for all your hard work on this. This was extremely helpful. I appreciate it. And thank you, Bob, for asking for the comparison. What other questions do we have? Anything? Bob. I just want to,
 I appreciate all the Jonathan, thank you for all the additional info and thanks from the again, as Teresa said to the developers for giving us that extra info. I really like this because having small single family houses right next to Butterfield, I mean, a two minute walk or less.
 maybe one minute if you're if you run or skip um i think that's great uh and something we desperately need um and and uh and i appreciate the tree preservation and especially on that steeper slope i think that's going to help with uh soil retention and and and such um so um i really like this uh i think it fits it's in the neighborhood i grew up in
 and I think it's going to be a great addition and help us to our goal of Getting some some housing built and stabilizing our market. So thank you Okay, anything else? We'll take some public comment then everybody gets one turn speak you have a three-minute duration don't engage anyone the public or any council member and
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. It is fitting that moments after unanimously recognizing a housing crisis,
 and acknowledging that we need more housing, that you have an opportunity to make a decision that will enable more housing supply in the city. I hope that you will remember your previous statements and stay consistent with that. This proposal not only adds more housing, it does it in a thoughtful way that sets aside area for tree preservation. So I hope you'll support this.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay. Who you got on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? Mayor, I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second. Wasn't this the second reading? It's already on the second reading. Okay, to the third reading. Okay.
 all right care which police called her up jones yes moore yes ludiker yes bernard yes bunch
 Yes. Kerr? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone the property ascribed and rezone the petition, RZN 2024-1 for approximately 6.31 acres located at 3006 North Old Missouri Road in Ward 3 from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre.
 NSG, Neighborhood Services General, and NC, Neighborhood Conservation, to RSF 18, residential single-family, 18 units per acre, and RA, residential agricultural. Mayor, Councilmember Bunch has her hand raised. Yes, go ahead. Yes, I'm sorry about that. Okay.
 I just wanted to add on this that this fits in with a lot of long-range things that we have had in planning stages in the city, like our 71B corridor plan or College Avenue plan, plans on rolling hills, plans to improve street connectivity on Millsap. I mean, there's a lot going on already in this area.
 And I just wanted to express my support for this because I got one email today from someone who was complaining that we didn't need, they thought this was going to be apartments. And they didn't want apartments, they didn't want higher density because we needed, in their minds, we needed homes for families to live in.
 And I think this is our best option to allow that in an area where there's a school, where there's trails, where there's commercial development that can be walked to. It turns this area into, or can be turning this area into something that is more like what we would like to see all over Fayetteville.
 And I think the lack of public coming out against this kind of expresses how much things have changed since this property was first built.
 portions of this property were first talked about being rezoned a few years ago. And I know the mayor and I both went to a meeting at Rolling Hills Baptist Church, and I honestly didn't know if I was going to get out of there alive because everyone was so angry that we might rezone land right next to Butterfield School.
 And that hasn't been that long ago. And so things have really changed a lot. And the perception, I believe, in our community is evolving over time and
 you know, I'm going to support this, and I think this is our best option to build more housing, and it frees up other housing, older housing, other apartments, things like that. So thank you very much for listening to me. I appreciate it. That was a fun meeting, wasn't it? It was special. I don't believe I've ever seen a neighborhood meeting that had 250 people in it before. Yes, Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor.
 You know, I know my colleagues know that I'm very concerned about water runoff and slope and those kinds of issues. And so I carefully review all of that. Most of the time I would definitely be voting against this, but I'm going to take a chance on this one and support it because I do believe the developer had a really good idea with setting aside the steepest slopes for RA and also the tree preservation.
 I'd like to see how the RSF 18 kind of unfolds, especially close to a school. So I will be in support of this tonight. Okay. You know, I just want to bring up a point here. I was just looking at the agenda, and it says on the March 19, 2024 City Council meeting, this ordinance was left on the first reading.
 That's correct, Mayor. When you read the title, I did not wait for you to ask to suspend the rules. I just read the body. So I was placed on a second reading when I read the body. I just wanted to be sure I'm, I was just reading this, just read. Sorry, I didn't, I didn't let you make that motion. I just went ahead. Oh, okay. Well, that's great. So here we are. Any final comments? Just one. Okay. And just real quick, that, that, and it's just,
 you know when i when i think about this that that tree preservation right in the middle of of this development i think is the more i think about it it's like that's really cool and and i hope more developers uh take that into consideration and and uh because i think it'll
 not just good for drainage and soil and slope, but also good for keeping an urban forest alive and keeping an area where natural habitat can exist. So, you know, if any other developers are listening, you know, follow suit please. Thank you. All right, anything else? Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Okay. Now let's go to number six, a resolution to grant the appeal of the planning commission's
 EDM 2024-0001, and to amend the master street plan to remove an approximately 1.5 mile section of a planned residential link street between South Mount Wagon Road and South Dead Horse Mountain Road. All right, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. And as a brief reminder of how we got to tonight and that it was tabled at the last meeting, that was at the applicant's request. So there were not any to do's or anything, but we did have a tour, which we'll touch on at the end of the conversation. Before going into that, I did want to outline some of the basic tenets of a master street plan, since not the entirety of council had the opportunity of considering adoption of the most recent master street plan in 2019 and 2020.
 So that begs the question, what is a master street plan?
 If you're not familiar with how states and their powers are authorized in Arkansas, we're considered generally what's a Dillon's rule or Dillon's law state, which means we only get to do what the state says we can do. One of the things they say we can do is create a master street plan so that we can establish a coherent transportation network, not just inside our cities, but in those areas immediately adjacent to our city, what's most commonly called our planning area. With that in mind, a master street plan is a policy document.
 It's intended to review where our transportation network's weaknesses are, where there's congestion, what kind of streets we need to put where in order to accommodate future growth in a way that is accommodating to our city's needs.
 A master street plan functions as a policy document in that it does create, or considers that entire ecosystem of streets in the city, just as importantly, those outside of the city as cities continue to expand and broaden their boundaries and where they need to focus their capital expenditures or where they need to set expectations for developers. The inverse of this is what isn't a master street plan.
 A master street plan is not an indication of specific land acquisition. It's not a filing of eminent domain. It doesn't mean the city is allocating budget to build a street. Doesn't mean our engineering division is designing a street or engaging with consultants to design a street. In other words, these streets and their alignments are not set in stone.
 With that in mind, and taking a look at our Master Street Plan if the council has not had an opportunity to review it lately, you can see the city and the areas that are a lighter color.
 The areas that are blue, however, are unincorporated Washington County. The various colors on the map represent different things. The most prominent ones are blue and red streets. Those are what we call regional links. They may be more familiar to other people being called an arterial street. They're anticipated to carry the highest volume of traffic citywide.
 The next tier down are our neighborhood links, which are another term for them as well as collector streets. So it begins carrying a larger amount of traffic than the streets you'd see in neighborhoods, and it conveys those to the arterials where people can move in and out of our region. And then we have the next tier down, which is the neighborhood links.
 The smallest tier streets are those you see in blue. Those are residential link streets. Those are exactly what their name suggests. They're meant to serve individual houses. They're meant to serve individual subdivisions, not necessarily collecting or conveying large areas of traffic between two different places.
 An important distinction you may see on this map is that some of those lines are solid and some of them are dashed. The dashed lines are those that do not exist today. Those are the ones where the city has identified a future need and specifically what kind of street it will need to accommodate based on volumes of traffic. That brings us to the specific future connection in question today, which you can see in the southwest or just beyond the southwest corner of the city in unincorporated Washington County.
 Going into a little bit more specific detail, it extends from the west at Dead Horse Mountain Road, crossing Hunt Lane as it goes eastward on the Ed Edwards Road, before ending ultimately in Molly Waggon Road.
 Of this specific link, what is being considered by council tonight is just the portion between or just the portion outside of the city. If you drew a line due south from what's known as Pumpkin Ridge Road, just south of the Stone Bridge Golf Course, all the way east of Molly Wagon, the proposal before council is to have this have our master street plan amended to remove this specific connection. This begs the question of why does this even exist?
 It was established in 2007 with our 2025 Master Street Plan. At that time, the city envisioned a much larger amount of traffic being moved through this area. If you're familiar with the annexation patterns and the development patterns in that area, this is heading right into the recession. There are a large number of subdivisions being out there. There are a large number of annexations occurring. So there's an anticipation that there'd be a higher amount of traffic going through that area.
 Additionally, it was intended to parallel Highway 16 or Huntsville Road, which if you've driven in the area, you know that is the only east-west connection in this portion of Fayetteville and its planning area as you head towards Elkins. Moving into the city plan 2023, the master street plan for that was adopted in 2011. At the time, it was evaluated and ultimately determined to remain as a collector street, and so it stayed until 2020.
 As a part of that project, staff took a very high level of scrutiny to our master street plan in line with our adopted land use policy goals, which are targeted largely at inward growth and trying to utilize our existing infrastructure instead of expanding outward. With that in mind, several of the unincorporated area future connections or proposed street connections were removed from the map.
 There were some that were very deliberately kept on there, and that includes this one, again, for the primary reason being that there was no other alternative east-west route paralleling Huntsville Road if this area continued to develop.
 With that in mind, and with staff not seeing any or being able to identify any studies or information that suggests that this road would not be needed when this area develops, we are recommending denial of this request to amend the Master Street Plan and remove this connection. The Planning Commission considered this at length when they heard it, but ultimately denied it by a vote of three to six.
 Those that favored removing the connection felt that it could be used as a policy tool to indicate that we do not want to grow this direction. And by removing the street, we would be saying we're indicating that we don't want to see any development in that area. And the streets wouldn't be necessary to accommodate that or that connection wouldn't be necessary to accommodate that.
 Those who did not support the amendment kind of had an opposite argument. They recognized or asserted that there may still be development out there, and if and when it does happen, disconnection is a priority for the city to be able to accommodate that east-west traffic in the nature that addresses the congestion we're seeing on Huntsville Road today. Thank you.
 With that in mind, and of course I'll defer to Mr. Williams to speak more to it, but I know there have been some assertions or comments about diminishment of land values or whether our master street plan represents a taking, an illegal taking of people's property value by indicating where we anticipate these future transportation connection needs.
 And if you had an opportunity to read the memo from the legal department, there is a broad history of case law in Arkansas that reflects the existing state statute, which is that states do have authority and it's a public interest for them to be able to make these kinds of planning efforts moving forward.
 With that said, again, there was a tour held yesterday. I appreciate those who were able to come. And for those who weren't able to, we visited a few properties, first on the south end of Hunt Lane, an area where the property owner asserted they experienced a significant amount of water flow coming south off the mountain there. If you had an opportunity to see that in your email today, some pictures were sent, I believe, from the rain that came through last night. So what you see there.
 I'm sorry, not last night. Sounds like it was not that recently, but if you can see where I'm indicating on the cursor, that's this portion of where we looked yesterday. From there, we traveled along at Edwards as well, north or southward, and then ended on Molly Wagon, visiting largely the extent of that alignment.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor, I believe there's a large number of applicants associated with this, but it's my understanding that Robert Rhodes is representing them at least initially. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes.
 Mayor, I am representing seven families and I'm sorry, my name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm Hall-Estill and I do represent the applicants. Mayor, I am representing seven families and some of them want to speak. I'm going to cut my part to about six minutes and I think some of the other neighbors are going to speak in the open to public if that's okay with you. They will get three minutes of peace if they, I mean, when we go to public. They understand that, Mayor. Okay.
 Okay, so back before in 2007, when there were a number, I mean numerous annexations out this way, this street was put on the future plan. However, after 07, those annexations slowed almost to a halt in this immediate area, thereby eliminating the main reason for this future street.
 Now the staff's report indicates that, quote, it does not foresee any city-initiated construction of this connection and acknowledges that there does not appear to be any portions of the connections currently built or planned for construction or development, end quote. Staff further goes on to say that if indeed this street is taken off the future plan, it should be done after an extensive study
 I'd ask you to weigh the value and the need for an extensive study versus some of the rationale and issues that the property owners have expressed, will express tonight, and I'll express tonight. But before that, let me talk a little bit about the landowner's concern about the diminished value of their land. And yes, we completely, completely understand the Office of the City Attorney's position on takings.
 But, I would ask you council members not to ignore the practical, not the legal, but the practical aspect of this road. The City Attorney's most recent memo states that the only remedy available, which is what these applicants are doing, and I'm quoting, is to request that the City Council remove the unwanted portion of the street from the Master Street Plan.
 That quote should certainly tell you that my clients are going about this the right way. And further, you on the City Council have full discretion and authority to give them the relief they're asking for. You might ask yourself, what would happen if we were to grant their request and remove this portion of the street from the Master Street Plan? Would anybody in the city be harmed? No. No.
 based on no development currently out this way, no harm. Does it mean you can never put a road there? If the study to put a road there in the first place was done 17 years ago, isn't it fair to say that if the city is really going to put a road there a year from now, or five years from now, or 20 years from now, then they can do another study. It would probably be a good idea to refresh the study.
 What else is the practical effect of you all removing this portion of the road from the plan? Well, members of the Planning Commission that were in favor of its removal cited, and I'm quoting staff's most recent report, quote, that historically there's been efforts to minimize development in this area and they felt that the removal of the Master Street Plan was an opportunity to discourage growth in this particular area.
 So, some of you may recall that at one point there was discussions about the need for an eastern bypass. Now, this is something, this is a different part of Fayetteville. That need was diminished, if you remember, by the widening of Highway 265 crossover and 15th Street. Just like the eventual widening of Huntsville, Huntsville Road all the way to Elkins will
 Remove the need for this future street. I hope you followed that. It's the same whatever what happened in with with that other bypass that was decided we didn't need it was because of the widening of two other roads and Highway 16 you do the same thing eliminate the need for this road
 So, what else can you consider? Again, to quote the Office of the City's Attorney's most recent memo, quote, the City Council may also consider the potential impacts of these plans on landowners. Do y'all realize the discretion and the freedom that gives you? The potential impacts of these plans on landowners. You're going to hear from the landowners.
 And so I'm not going to go into all the things that they're going to tell you, but they will tell you that this will make a big impact on them if you remove this. So I would say that you certainly can and should consider the fact that this will diminish their enjoyment of their land
 and consider the practical issues that Mr. Wang, I think we've talked about Mr. Wang, and again, we're not yelling taking, we're talking practical. Mr. Wang was the one that was trying to sell his property. He eventually did, but he sold it at a loss. That was the practical effect. Lastly, but not least, you should consider what putting the road among these properties would do to the watershed, the current flooding issues, wildlife,
 I don't know about y'all, but whoever went on the tour, I saw two of the biggest bunnies on the property and three deer. The current flooding plus the difficulty in construction of this road compared to widening Huntsville Road. Further, some of those
 Some of those are things that the February 7, 24 memo from the Office of the City Attorney talked about that also should be considered when planning these future streets, such as quote the appropriate and best use of the land, also good civic design and arrangement, and wise and efficient expenditure of funds.
 This road would be very expensive. With all that said, we heartily believe that we've given you sufficient reasons and rationale to be able to take this future street off the plan, and I hope that you will do that and we stand ready and willing to answer any questions. And like I say, some of the other folks will speak during the public session. Thank you. Okay. Y'all just got about three minutes, so just hang on. You get three minutes in public comment anyway.
 Robert, do you have anything else you want to add? You've got about three minutes left. Yeah. But we'll  they'll all have three minutes apiece. Okay. All right. Any questions from the council for staff or the applicant?
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, thank you for an excellent tour yesterday, and thank you all to the residents for all your organization and information on the tour. It was really, really helpful. My question is, if we remove this street, and I know it's just a plan, and I know there's a lot of concerns
 variability, we could move it, we could do this, we could do that. Is there any prohibition from adding the street back in the future when there's additional growth out there?
 The short answer is no. A longer answer is in the intervening period between master street plans, if development does occur, we have zero leverage to require that connection. So if any of these property owners were to sell, which is my understanding that that's what started this conversation is that property owners were wanting to sell and possibly develop their land. We would not have the authority to have them either dedicate right away or actually perform some amount of street construction to accommodate this extension or this connection in the future.
 So, okay, so a little follow-up question. So the next time there is a master plan that's done like 2050 or whatever the next iteration is, at that time would you, if there was additional growth out there, would you be able to add maybe a new path or a new road in that area and require the right-of-way and all these other items that come with that?
 I guess putting that line on the master street plan. If it's not already been developed, yes. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Okay, well, we'll take some public comment then.
 Now everybody gets one turn it to Mike you have a three minute duration Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that Who would like to address this in check? Good evening everyone. My name is Carol Gregory I live at 2748 South Hunt Lane and
 where I've been for the last 28 years on a 14-acre pony donkey rescue farm. I'm one of seven families seeking to remove the proposed street from the master street plan. Our reasons are multiple, but I'll focus on just a few. The first one I call the watershed wetlands floodplain issue. On my property alone, there are two creeks, three ponds, and one of those ponds is spring fed. The proposed street would cross both of the creeks and destroy two of my three ponds, including that spring fed one.
 My house, as well as the ham and earning properties, sit in a bowl at the base of Robinson Mountain. The ponds collect sediment coming off the mountain, keeping it out of the Whitewater River and out of our drinking water. Massive infrastructure would be necessary to accommodate the full flow that comes off of that high mountain range,
 should the proposed road ever be built. If oversized infrastructure like bottomless culverts aren't built, my house and others will flood. The 2040 plan specifically states that agricultural land and springs should be avoided on master street plans.
 Second, the proposed street guarantees development on environmentally valuable land. As one of the planning commissioners noted, the land in our area has long been identified as unsuitable for development because of water and soil issues. Much of this land is prairie land. The planned street makes it inevitable that this sensitive land will be developed with all of the problems that will create.
 I have no plans to sell and I hope to stay in my home for as long as it's physically possible. But I know that if I live long enough, I will eventually need to sell to finance my long-term care. If this proposed street remains on my land, as long as there's no sewer line out there, which there isn't, the soil conditions will limit interest from developers and the proposed street will limit interest from single-family buyers.
 Third, we all rightly value transparency as a goal of city government, of any good government. But we landowners in the county never had any notice of the imposition of the proposed link street across our land. There were no signs on the street. There was no mail in our, no letters in our mailbox.
 It's my understanding even today that the only way I can discover the city's plans regarding land outside the city is to visit the city's website frequently, scroll through hundreds of pages of agenda materials in order to determine what the city intends to do with my property. This is not transparency.
 and it simply can't be the desired outcome. And finally, pollution. This bowl is at the base of Robinson Mountain. It holds air pollution and ozone that's increasing in our area. This proposed road will add exhaust to the mix. I personally suffer from asthma and a heart condition that's exacerbated by these issues. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Jordan Sheehan. My name is Steve Warden. I live at 2555 Edwards Road.
 I would argue I have one of the best views in the county overlooking the city of Feville. I live on a very steep hill at Edwards Road. There's a gas line right away that runs right on one side of one portion of my parcels. That right away when I bought the land was probably 12 foot tall full of crap. And I cleaned all that up. And what I discovered once I did was significant erosion on that right away.
 three and four foot gullies all the way down it from water running down it. I have lived there since 2020 in September, and I spent well over $100,000 trying to divert water significantly enough from that right-of-way to other portions of the lower part of the land I own, which was adjacent or connecting to Mr. Wang's land, to an area that wasn't tore up by the tree people that tore this land up before I bought it.
 They clear cut it. It was all trash in there. And I'm trying to get it where the sediment will settle and maybe not be so erosive. This road, the blue dotted line, crosses both my parcels of land down the bottom. Cuts me off from very little except for maybe 80 foot on one end and 60 on the other. But I would be looking at a highway going across the bottom of my land and then it would cut across and go what Mr. Wang used to own.
 I can promise you that the steepness of my land creates an undevelopable situation. And I would just suggest that this be removed. A developer at any time has to come before your city councils once they want to develop something and get approval for it. You would also have to annex a state into your city prior to this road existing. And then we'd go through the annexation process before this land was ever even used. I know there's already been one development.
 turned down down there next to the golf course because of the flow on highway 16 coming off of dead horse mountain road this road goes straight to dead horse mountain road no matter what they're all going to end up back on 16 if you put this in they don't go anywhere but 16. because there's a stoplight there now after many many years and many many deaths but all the traffic's going to end up on 16 eventually anyway and it's already widened to pretty much stonebridge bells road
 It will be widened to Elkins. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Shirley Eanes-Durning. My husband is Jerry Durning. We reside at 2600 Hunt Lane. We also have 2550 Hunt Lane, which was my place where I grew up.
 Mayor and city members, especially those of you who came to see what the Link Street would take away that can never be restored, I especially thank you for hearing us. My husband and I are Fayetteville natives. He retired from Kearney Cooper Electric. After 35 years, I taught in the public school system, Spanish, at Ramey Junior High and Fayetteville High School, 28 years, followed by adult education for Spanish learners.
 Our land that will be divided and destroyed by a road to nowhere, I'm sorry that's how we think of it, has been in my family since 1946. A creek crosses the almost 17 acres, and that is my big concern. It babbles after two-inch rain, and it roars after the spring floods. The best soil is down there. It washes off our hillside. It is where my dad had his garden.
 With the ham and the Gregory and the Farkas ponds removed and the big road building, erosion will wash away the banks and fill its rock bottoms with sediment and rocks. The Link Street Path divides our 17 acres in half. It takes out our bridge, our driveway, our two big buildings for storage, native dogwoods, lilacs, redbuds, sassafras, and our home of 48 years.
 Back in 2006, we created our revocable trust that expresses our desire for family to inherit our property. The second of our storage buildings was built in 2007. 2007, 17 years ago, someone in Fayetteville City Planning put this Link Street on a map. Did anyone check what a Link Street would do to the environment? The increased flooding, the pollution of air and streams? And anyone left along the street?
 Privacy. And those of you who took the tour, you can see we have our privacy. We don't have a fancy home. It's what we like. And the secrecy that the planners have exercised for 17 years is incredible. Finding out that there are restrictions on our land and the threat this presents, all this has been taking up way too much space in my brain. It goes against my sense of fairness. Restore our faith in city government.
 Keep it fair. Take away the link street. Art Hobson, University of Arkansas professor in 2003, wrote, Fayetteville needs a green belt on the edge of the city that is maintained in its undeveloped state. That is what we ask you to save. Mayor, I'd just like to give her a couple minutes because I would like to read. Ma'am, ma'am, I'd like to give you a couple minutes because I would like to read what you're about to read from Art Hobson.
 So how much time do you think it... About half a minute. I'll give you a minute. Art Hobson, he still writes for the local paper. He was at the university when I was in the 60s and the 70s. He's a physics professor, I believe. And he said, Fayetteville needs a green belt on the edge of the city that is maintained in its undeveloped state.
 and that's what we have we have those big fields where you see horses and cattle and i can sit at my mom and dad's place and look out there we're back off the road but if i want to see some horses and nature and sunsets and fayetteville in the distance that's hunt lane and that's what i would like to preserve thank you thank you okay who else would like to speak good evening i'm david ham
 I live at 2765 South Hunt Lane in Fayetteville. I have a 148-acre farm on Hunt Lane. I'm probably one of the largest landowners of the seven of us that are complaining about this. We purchased the land in 1968. My son five years ago purchased the 56 acres that my father previously owned before his death, and we had to divide to settle an estate.
 But my son now owns it, so we're about 200 acres plus on that side of the hunting line. The proposed road actually cuts right through the top of the farm, through the timber line. Then it drops down the bottom of my field and pretty much just cuts me right in half. Because I'm two triangles, so to speak. It goes across two ponds, three creeks.
 And they're wet weather creeks, but they do flood Pumpkin Ridge down at Stonebridge Golf Course quite often. When that culvert was put in, it was only a 12-inch culvert, and they came back in and put a 36-inch culvert in, and it still sometimes can't handle the much water that comes off the side of that mountain.
 We talked about wildlife, something that I haven't told anybody, but Dr. Matthew Finney, a veterinarian who helps take care of our cattle and our horses, killed the number three buck on the side of my mountain this year at Mountain Man's Ports. The number three, and that's out of everywhere in northwest Arkansas. Think about that, how close we are to Fayetteville. The number three sized buck.
 That's a big deer. Anyway, right now, my son, Preston Hamm, holds the trust for my portion of Hamm LLC, Land and Cattle Company, which is one-third of 148 acres, plus he owns all the cattle on it.
 Right now we're running about 85 head. We have about 21 replacement heifers and two replacement bulls that we're raising. So to jeopardize that situation would pretty much put him into a situation where he would have to sell his also if the road went through. Right now there's no plans on developing him. Not by me and not by him or my sister. So that's really all I've got.
 no proposed no proposed cell for development thank you thank you who else likes addresses
 Hi, my name is Robin Devine. I live at 1000 West Boone Street, South Fayetteville. I frequently go out to Hunt Lane to the Donkey Farm. It's a seven to nine minute drive from my house in South Fayetteville. It is such a refuge. It is such a respite from the busyness of Fayetteville, from the constant construction every which way you turn in Fayetteville.
 The beauty of having no cars out there and no noise out there except for the birds and the donkeys and the ponies is beyond measure. It's just beautiful. But the big thing that that refuge that Carol has about the donkeys and the ponies is she is an incredible curator of donkey poo.
 She takes the donkey poo and cultivates it into the best compost I've ever seen in my life. It's a process that takes many, many months with adding water and covering it. And if they put this road here, it's going to interrupt this whole bottom half of her donkey stuff. You'll have cars instead of ponds and creeks. You'll have cars. And it'll take the delicacy of peace out of the situation.
 The good thing about going to visit Carol's donkey farm, or refuge, excuse me, is that I get to meet the neighbors. There are wonderful neighbors out there. People come to get donkey poo. They drop off a half dozen eggs or some greens from their gardens. And people sit in the chairs and sit and visit for a minute. It's like old-time Fayetteville. It's community.
 And there's no roads that are interrupting this spacious, spacious place. And it's gorgeous. And I miss that in Fayetteville. My little neighborhood where I live right now is now house to house to house. Even though we had it rezoned to single family residence, it is huge houses. There's no peace in it anymore. It's ugly.
 to have that kind of development happen out there with the access to the road coming through. Those lots, those big huge acreages out there will have, the people who will be buying that land would be developers, not little farm people anymore. They'd be developers taking, to have access to that route, that the, whatever the heck they call it, that bypass route.
 i just want to say please preserve some of the beauty we still have left it's a beautiful place on the planet thank you thank you okay who else would like to address us i think this will be my last time mayor kyle smith 2801 dove drive um this is not a road this is an idea of a road it's a line on a map and that it's an approximate line on the map and a rough planning tool
 There's no imminent development proposed here, and as long as the land is in the hands of farmers and donkey poo connoisseurs, that's the way it'll stay. It's not going to be developed until the current owners sell to someone who wants to put a neighborhood there. And even then, the specific location is still to be determined.
 With respect to the Planning Commission, the three of them who wanted to use removal as a policy tool, I think that's a terrible policy for preventing development. What that would do would be to cede the city's authority to place the road to whatever developer bought the land eventually. And that's how we get development like over on Stearns. You remember Stearns?
 That was fun. We need more imaginary roads on our Master Street plan, not fewer. That's how we increase certainty for what's knowable in the future and it's how we preserve our options and our flexibility for all of the things that are not knowable in the future. With 11 people coming to town per day, that's for now, who knows what that will be by 2050,
 You know, that adds to the sources of uncertainty. What will our population needs and our housing needs be? Hopefully, we never need to grow out there. Y'all made a statement tonight, and if the policies follow that we're going to responsibly house all of that population growth here in town, where people don't have to drive from the edges, and we develop a livable city for all those people, then hopefully we never have to go develop out there.
 Until those policies are in place, you should keep the lines on the map so that in case we do end up going out there, we have the plans in place to develop it at least as responsibly as it can be. Please leave the map intact. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Marsha Woodruff. I live at 2303 South Malley-Wagnon.
 I'm one of the petitioners. I've lived there for 42 years. I have a pretty good idea of the traffic flow and all the critters and all the neighbors and what everybody does right and everybody does wrong and this street is parallel to highway 16 and in our neck of the woods all roads do not lead to Rome. They all lead to highway 16 and
 and the only way you get to Fayetteville and the only way you get to Elkins is Highway 16. And so it doesn't really matter too much about east-west roads. What matters is north-south roads that get you to Highway 16. The proposed road goes across half a dozen north-south streets, each that have an access
 to Highway 16. Okay? We don't need more accesses to Highway 16.
 proposed road ends in my yard. It ends in my yard on Malley wagon because you cannot build, at least without a whole bunch of money, you can't build between Malley wagon and Van Hoose. Malley wagons also known as Washington County 139 which makes a loop from highway 16 to highway 16. The reason there are no pair
 parallel streets to highway 16 between Mallywagon and Van Hoose is because there are extraordinary ravines and a really significant incline, Mallywagon being much lower in elevation than the Van Hoose side. So Washington County 139 is a loop from 16 to 16 and has absolutely no other outlets, none.
 So what is the utility of giving us two more ways to get to Highway 16? If I lived in Stonebridge and was in a real hurry to go to Elkins and wanted to skip 16 for two or three miles, it might benefit that person if they were going to Elkins.
 but all of us who live there our locusts and our lives are in Fayetteville so everybody that gets to my yard is going to turn left onto Malley Wagon go seven tenths of a mile from Stonebridge they're going to go east to my driveway turn left on Malley Wagon go seven tenths of a mile back to 16 turn back left to go to Fayetteville
 Or a few of them may turn right and go to Elkins. But the practicality and the utility of it is bizarre. Time. Hello, State Representative Chad Puryear, House District 25. That's the eastern part of Washington County where this affects. So democracy is a fundamental principle that ensures representation of all voices.
 In rural Arkansas, however, this principle is often overlooked, leaving many residents silenced. This lack of representation on the council for these residents is a clear example of this. So as their state representative, it is my duty to stand as a voice for rural Arkansas and advocate that their concerns be heard. Thank you to this council for hearing this appeal and giving us that opportunity to practice this democracy. Otherwise, these are the silent people that we just talked about.
 I sincerely ask this council to grant the modification request for the valid reasons given to this body. And I sent you guys a letter outlining some of the other stuff and then these guys have covered on it more broadly. As we plan for potential growth, it is crucial that this growth does not come at the expense of our rural residents. Balancing progress with preserving the unique character and quality of life in our rural areas is essential for sustainable development.
 Let us prioritize collaboration and thoughtful planning to create a thriving region to benefit all members of our community. I would also like to acknowledge Senator Jim Petty's support for these constituents as he was unable to attend tonight for a prior commitment in Little Rock. Thank you guys. Thank you. Hello, my name is Kaitlyn Tannehill Oxford, and I'm also running for House District 25. That was my opponent and we agree on this. This road needs to go away. So the reasoning is,
 These people have reached out to me and I've listened to them. And as Chad said, we're a voice for these people because we don't have representation in rural Washington County. Especially these people because they're technically where Fayetteville can build a road, but they don't have representation on the council. This road also funnels back into Highway 16 no matter what. If you go Black Oak, you're going to funnel back to Highway 16, which is the other east-west road that goes since nobody brought that up. Black Oak Road, there's a second road.
 And it's the other east-west. This road doesn't need to be there. It literally funnels back to either Black Oak or Highway 16. So it doesn't solve any problems with traffic because it all funnels back to it. It diminished the value on several of these people's property. As we know from Mr. Wang, his property was diminished. The value was, and he did not get fair market value for it because this road goes right through it. The watershed and the ecosystem is going to be affected if this road goes into place. I know I have my own personal piece of...
 paradise in rural Washington County and there was a bypass that I designated to go through that property a few years ago. Guess what? They just erased it. Easy peasy. So I know it can be done. I come from a family of engineers who also draw lines on maps all the time. Guess what? They just erase it. I would ask that this council get rid of this road. These people will be affected, the traffic will be affected, everything will be affected if this road goes into place. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Richard Farkas and I live at 2748 South Hunt Lane in Washington County. I'm here to ask for the removal of this proposed road from the Master Street Plan. It is my understanding that this road may never be built and would only be built if and when development occurs.
 In that case, the developer, who would be paying for most, if not all, of this street, would have a say as to its configuration. As an example, at the Dead Horse Mountain end of this proposed road, a new development was able to completely delete this proposed road and replace it with a much different configuration of residential streets.
 In the meantime, if and until development is planned, please remove this proposed street. I would now like to discuss the experience of one of our petitioners, David Wang. He is the source of our learning about this proposed street. It was Mr. Wang's attempt at the Planning Commission to remove this street from his property and the required notifications sent to adjoining properties that created our awareness of this street.
 There had been no notification from city planning, no signs, no mail, nothing. We asked Mr. Wang to come and tell of his experience and the difficulties he encountered attempting to sell his land due to this proposed street. This is what he said via text to my wife.
 Morning, Carol. Apologies for the delayed reply. We first started out with a realtor to list the property and had several that didn't make it to contract from verbal communication to our realtor concerning this road. We had one documented offer stating the buyers wanted to submit their own request to the Planning Commission to remove the road.
 The second offer was nearing a formal offer, but then the buyer's agent asked our agent to provide documentation that this road would not be built. We were told by a realtor they declined because of the road.
 The third buyer was when we were transitioning from our realtor to sell by owner, so the offer was sent to us directly, but had wording in the contract for 90 days of due diligence, which was dealing with this road. Overall though,
 Mr. Wang continues, I had lost track of how many potential buyers stopped communications or verbally texted me about no longer being interested after viewing the survey and asking about the road. Also, just an update, we did formally close on the sale yesterday, so there are new owners now at 2277 Edwards. Time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 My name is Ron Woodruff. I live on South O'Malley-Wagons Road. I live in Paradise, as do my neighbors. We live in a rural area. We live there because that's where we want to be. I've been there for more than 40 years.
 Planning is important and I understand that. I sat on the Washington County Court for two terms and I know what planning means. I sat there with Charlie Johnson and watched a lot of planning be done. It is important. Governments must, and you know this, governments must plan for the future. We can't just close our eyes and hope it happens.
 This is a simple case of over planning. That's all it is. It's over planning. For right now, this road has no purpose that will serve the public good. What benefit is it to the city that they've got these
 proposed streets up there with lines on it. It serves no purpose. There's no need. There's no need for this road. It serves no need to my neighbors or to myself. It serves no need to the city. It's a line on the street that's got us really messed up out there. It's too early to be talking about Dave and Ham's property and putting a street down the middle of his
 is cattle operation. It's too early to be talking about the adverse effects this has on the Farquhars' property and what it's going to do to their homestead and their property.
 It's too early to be talking about disrupting the way of life for the people who live out there. We don't need this road. The city doesn't need this road. I'm asking that you be good neighbors to us. We live adjacent to the city. Be good neighbors to us. Do away with this road. Do the right thing, and it doesn't cost a dime. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Do you have anybody on Zoom? Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. OK. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Let's get going. Bob. Wow. I want to thank you all. Thank you for making my job difficult. You know, I had all my notes scribbled out of why I would deny this appeal. I'm hard pressed.
 to vote against planning commission or the staff uh but i tell you and i know my fellow council members probably get tired of hearing me talk fable stories but uh dead horse mountain is a treasure uh that uh that area uh is a treasure you you've really made me get really confused and have to think about this in different ways and and and i appreciate that actually um
 Jonathan, can we pull up a map of like the GIS map and kind of look at where the green network is and Dead Horse Mountain and everything? Certainly. I'm not sure what you mean by the green network. So I'll start with the enduring green network plan.
 I also heard some comments about the topography and historic prairies and also soils. That's what you see on this map in particular. The prairie land is important and I know the water issues out there. My brother used to live in Stonebridge and I used to have to help him stack sandbags out outside his patio door and front door whenever a big storm rolled through. I know we have a lot of infrastructure to be doing out there.
 drainage and water retention and everything so
 If this is the road, what is the... If I can help narrate here. The road in consideration begins where I'm indicating it here on the western edge. Again, that would tie into Pumpkin Ridge if ever built. And the eastern edge is Malley-Wagnon. The shading or the polygon used here, that shows historic prairie. And if I can speak for the engineers and planners from the mid 2000s, it looks like there was some intent to avoid that to the greatest extent possible.
 Similarly, you can see these light blue areas are indicative of hydric soils. The lighter blue means less hydric soils or a lower proportion of the property of hydric soils. The darker blue are a higher proportion. It looks like there may have been some intent to avoid the higher proportions of it. And the lines here, you're probably familiar with those after the previous item. Those are contour lines. And this looks  I'm sorry, go ahead. Oh, on that bottom left there, is that dead horse or is that?
 Deadhorse is further to the west, that yellow line you see here. The current proposal from these applicants is not to remove this connection, which crosses the ridge here and was part of a previous subdivision's proposal. So that connection would still stay? That's correct. And it looks like there's other paths. If you were to look at, and people might be against this too, but I can't see the name, Oakmont maybe? Right at...
 at the north north of the uh blue line going up here uh nope nope to your left right here where that line is like i mean there's potentially for an east way it's connection there is there not or between mile away and whatever that circle is that is a oakmont that's a platted subdivision within the city limits but um
 okay thank you um no and thank you everybody that got up and spoke and i know you all are in the county but i'm ward one and you're you're right up against my board and if you ever got annexed you would be my constituents um so i i i take great reverence in hearing what you have to say um
 i i think those thanks for answering my questions and thank you all for coming here um i'm still confused about this i'm still working this out through my head you know i will say this road isn't planned i mean it's on the master plan but there's no current intention to build this road this is more just like a future
 If that's the question, that's correct. If the properties all remain undeveloped as these applicants have indicated they want to remain, this street would likely never be built. However, if they are sold, as it sounds like Mr. Wang's property was sold, it could potentially be developed similar to, I think there was a subdivision that those on the tour saw immediately north of some of these applicants where it was built for, I believe it looked like it was about one house for two acres north of here.
 Thank you. I can't tell the future and I'm hard pressed to remove tools from our toolbox but yeah, I'll just leave my comments right there for now. Thank you.
 thank you mayor uh and again thanks for that incredible tour yesterday i think uh bob i wish you could have joined us because we had a lot of these conversations here here yesterday on the tour um so maybe next time um you know i i am very concerned about the residents really not having a voice
 about when that line was drawn on the map and I realized that that line is it's just a planning tool it's just ambiguous but it's got other consequences and um so that's uh distressing to me I'm I'm always learning something up here pretty much every meeting and that that one's a new one um I think
 There were a couple of comments about within the Master Street Planning Guide about appropriate and best use of land and feasibility. Or right now where that line is drawn like we saw yesterday.
 That's going across four or five different ponds right in a really vulnerable watershed. And that's really concerning to me. And I appreciate, Jonathan, you showing that last map with maybe some of their thought processes about avoiding some of the remnant prairies and maybe some even more exceptional hydric soils.
 There's still a lot out there, I guess, to avoid. So for this appeal, even though I do like to plan, but in this instance, I do think that I'm going to support the appeal and ask that we vacate that street.
 I think the residents make some really good points about everything always ending up on Highway 16. I didn't really see the utility of it right now. And it's hard for me to see the utility of it in the future unless there is a major street that goes over Mollie Wagon or goes further to the, I guess it's to the east of Mollie Wagon over that big mountain. So it would take a lot of money
 and a lot more investigation and a lot more planning. So I will be supporting removing that tonight. And again, thank you all to the residents for coming out. And I'm sorry you were not represented when this planning happened. At least that's my understanding. If I'm incorrect, if they were represented, if they did have notice, please correct me about that.
 Who else? Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I echo what Teresa said. I want to say that I very seldom go against staff on their recommendations because I respect them so greatly. But this is one that's got me a little on edge about what direction I'm going to go. The tour yesterday was, I think somebody said,
 one of the landowners said it's our little slice of paradise. And it, quite frankly, was incredible. The land that you saw and, you know, I think somebody talked about the bunnies that we saw, you know, the deer. But the really part that got me was looking at the streams, looking at...
 where they flowed and how it might be affected by this potential road. But I still went back at the end of the day yesterday and thought, well, you know, it's just a line on a map. It's not going to be anything. As long as they retain their property, it's not going to be ever developed. But then tonight I hear some of the stories and it's it's.
 It still got me on the fence, but I echo a lot of my concerns is what Teresa talked about and what I think a potential road would do to a purely slice of a little paradise out there. And so that's my concerns. I think I'm leaning towards approving the appeal, but I'd like to hear some of the other council members' thoughts. Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 It was a heck of a tour yesterday and I appreciate the time you took to be our tour guide and prevent us from being lost because it would have been easy. I'm going to talk out of both sides of my mouth so let's just go ahead and get that right up front very clearly. It's been expressed, don't develop our land and ruin this.
 the city will never develop your land. The other side of my mouth is, which of you do you least trust to not develop their land? Because if everyone says we love it and we don't want to develop it, there will never be a road.
 Which of you would violate your neighbor's trust and your answer is probably going to be well none of us It would be whoever we sell our land to that might have a different vision. And so that's why there's lines for a imaginary road So that not any of you but that next owner or the owner after them that does choose to develop or
 that the city has some rational basis for saying you need to participate in creating the infrastructure to handle the demand that you create. So if none of you are going to develop, there is no issue whatsoever. You could
 other side of my mouth, all choose to voluntarily place your land in a conservation easement to perpetually from this day forward preclude its development. And with that,
 Why wouldn't we do cartwheels to remove a paper street from the map? You've encumbered your land so that subdivisions could not be built. You've guaranteed no matter who you sell to three generations from now, there'll never be a need for the road just as you described it to us tonight. And you described it very appropriately to us tonight.
 So that would be an avenue that you could pursue that would paint us in the corner because you would legally remove in perpetuity any need for a future road because we're not going to go out and build a road and we're not going to go out and build a subdivision. It would only be someone that you would sell to or if you yourselves chose to do that. So we're not asking you to develop
 Regarding the lines on the map, boy, I completely understand that. It makes us all crazy, and the ambiguity causes consternation for me as well. I'm used to roads being identified
 along property lines. Any good farmer will tell you you need a farm to market road and where do you build them? You build them along the property lines and you've got your fence and your ditch to hold water to help keep your road dry and that's where you place your road. And so my way of thinking these paper lines are in essence a good faith holding you hostage to say
 Who's going to develop first? They're the one that's obligated to negotiate with the rest of you to move the line so that it's no longer splitting property right down the middle. You'd never do that to a farmer not in the state of Arkansas. Where do you place that road along those property lines? And so it seems to me that the concern you've raised is a legitimate concern, but it's got
 a limited impact because if you're the only ones that would develop and you never develop, there will never be a road out there. So that's kind of that two-edged coin that you've placed me in as just one city council member. So I feel for you and
 But I don't want to let go of this opportunity. It's the only leverage we would have two generations from now when you've sold to someone and they turn around and sell to someone and then they decide to develop. And I hope that you can see that, that it's in no way a desire to impact you, but it is in fact an opportunity to enable us to tell a future developer
 You want to move the road, we want to move the road, negotiate with your neighbors, because you either need to buy them out or get that road on the property lines where it rightfully belongs. Now that's my take as an old Arkansas boy that ends up living in the city. And that would be my two cents worth. Thank you. Council Member Bunch has her hand raised. Go ahead, Sarah. Sarah, you're muted.
 We can't hear you. I'm sorry. Try again. Sarah, we just can't hear you. I'm not sure what's going on. Can you tell McGuire? So can you toggle that and just see? There she goes. Try again. Okay, you're currently unmuted, but we can't hear you anyway. Can she call in? Well, for some reason she's able to be heard on, um,
 It's a Zoom thing, McGuire, because she's being heard outside of the chamber and also on the cable. I'm sorry, Sarah, one second. OK. Holly is talking. Holly also is trying. Holly, would you just say something so I can tell if it's OK. If Holly's speaking, then yeah, Holly's trying to speak. But we can't hear Holly either. OK.
 I think they're going to keep working on it, sorry. I had a question to staff in case you're able to give us clarification. I echo the concerns that Councilmember Turk brought up about, and that was brought up, that maybe these residents weren't notified. I know that over time our processes have changed, but I think I was under the impression of
 you know this came into being I guess in 2007 but we've had updates over time was there any time that was publicized at all or were there notifications or public meetings where they potentially would have been privy to that or would it have just been when someone would have potentially gotten a new survey like when would they have known about that's a good question I I don't have the information on the two
 previous master street plans the one associated with city plan 2025 and 2030 With city plan 2040 it was considered at several public hearings at the Planning Commission. I believe heard it at
 three or four agenda sessions working groups that were publicized as well as Planning Commission hearings themselves City Council heard it several times as well I don't believe we have any municipal or state requirements to advertise in papers of general circulation like you see with some of our other requirements rezonings and such
 Thank you, Jonathan. Well, I would echo concerns that were brought up by residents. I want to thank you first, I guess, for the tour, for sharing so much information. I mean, it is a beautiful area of the county, right outside our boundaries here in Fayetteville. I think each council member, we think about, if this were us, right? We kind of put ourselves in those shoes and we all want to be good neighbors.
 And we have a lot of competing things that are across our desk that we have to plan for. I think you heard it in one of the public comments recently talking about, you know, 11 people are coming to Fayetteville alone every day and 33 to our region. And so we know that we're taking on, you know, a lot of growth and trying to harness sometimes where that's going can be quite difficult.
 I appreciate you sharing the concerns around the environment, the erosion, the flooding concerns. Obviously, this is some challenging geography through that area. What's part of what makes it very rugged and very beautiful and it's been a paradise for so many people.
 After I left your tour, I got to come to Ordinance Review. And I guess because I don't fancy much life outside of government meetings, I got to go to county services in Washington County where they were discussing planning in Washington County.
 Washington County historically has only had residential and agricultural zonings. They're recognizing in the conversation in Washington County specifically stated by the county attorney Brian Lester is that there's a lot of change coming at us and we're going to have to plan for it.
 You know, there's a lot of things that have been the same way they've been for a very long time, but things are, they're changing because we're no longer going to be a rural county. Now we'll have rural pockets and I think we want to, again, be neighborly and respectful and I think the county was recognizing that.
 But part of the responsibilities that we have to be good stewards to every member that will come and join us in Fayetteville and Washington County is to make sure that we're doing our diligence and planning. And so, you know, for me, it's.
 it comes down to that at this time we're not building a road, we're not trying to mow through these properties. And I know some of you probably haven't followed what the council's business has been. You probably don't geek out on government meetings like I do. But what I've seen us do over time, and I hope that we can hold hands in good faith, is that when we...
 go to do these possible developments if this road were to come to fruition in the far future is that working side by side with our neighbors to try to come up with the best plan possible. No one's trying to come and dictate or come and be a bad neighbor, I think, in that regard. So I think it's much like Councilmember Whitaker spoke to, unfortunately, you know, we have
 a lot of competing things that we're having to take into consideration and you know we can't hold you legally to not do anything further with your property um those are rights that you do have and so looking out for the the common good and the general interest for for the public at large is what we're tasked with doing and so for that reason tonight i'm going to have to be supportive to keep this on the on the map
 Thank you. I'm sorry, real quick, Ms. Norton. Mr. Mayor, I do have a point of clarification. I was incorrect on one item and found the information on the other. I'm incorrect. State statute does require publication in a newspaper, and we did so on May 13th in the Democrat Gazette in 2019. Okay. And I have Sarah Bunch, Councilmember Bunch, on speakerphone now, if you'll go ahead, Sarah. Okay. I have you on speakerphone also. Can you hear me? We can hear you.
 Okay, thank you very much. I don't have a whole lot to add, more to add to this, but I did want to weigh in on this issue. I am very familiar with this area. It's kind of in my own stomping grounds where I was growing up, and it's an area where we've had a lot of change in my lifetime.
 And I know I'm also very familiar with the one road in and one road out. You know, you've got Highway 16 and that's your connection to anywhere out in that part of the county. But the issue for me is it's not so much what the landowners now will do with it. It's their heirs.
 It's when it transfers to their heirs, and their heirs are not wanting to, you know, some of them may not want to have a farm. Down through the generations, they may not be farmers. They may not want to keep that much land. They may not.
 you know they may there's all sorts of things that could happen that can cause a piece of land to sell maybe someone has a health issue or there's a divorce or something like that so there's all sorts of things that can cause a piece of land to sell to someone who might want to develop it and so i have to think about um how how would i view this on other streets in thayetteville and i have to apply
 The same acumen to this street as I would to any other street in Fayetteville. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah. Okay, because I'm hearing back reverb coming back to me, so I took it off the speaker. So I have to look at this, and I do have a lot of questions about this area, because it is a very long connection there.
 But I also have to think, what would I do if it were another street in another part of the area? And I have to apply the same rules to every street.
 And, you know, so I don't know how I'm going to vote on this, honestly, but I understand everyone's concerns there. But we can't, you know, we only have so many tools that are our availability. And it is very hard if something is allowed to be developed out there. We won't have if we take it off the map, we won't have any tools.
 We can't get anything back from the developer there. So those are my thoughts. Thank you very much, Susan. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. And Councilmember Hertzberg, if you need for me to do that too, I'll be happy to call you. Well, Bob, you've had your light on a while. Okay. I just wanted to thank my fellow councilmember for their comments because I think they helped me come along further on my thoughts on this.
 i think i'm gonna uh support your um appeal uh you know fayetteville is growing leaps and bounds we know this and what you know i'm very pro you know planning for this but we also have to think about who we are and where we came from and one of the magical things about this area is that fable you know was always a college town but you know they but you know i have you
 friends that raise cattle at Morningside and 15th, I think they had 50 head or more. And that there are certain areas, Dead Horse Mountain, Black Oak Road, that are just treasures. And the fact that if we do annex, you are my constituents. I watched, I'm sorry, I missed Sarah's comments. I had to take a little break there
 But I watched the quorum court meeting last night. My wife is a justice of the peace on the quorum court. And there are talks about giving the cities more control of the zoning that happens right outside of the cities in the county. And so we are kind of the horseshoe that decides what the zoning is gonna be for certain areas and where, what type of development should go. And,
 Long story short, I'm going to support your appeal. I think that we need to keep some of our character. We need to keep some of where we came from and who we are and what we are. We need to protect prairie lands. That area already has so many problems with water issues and drainage off the mountains and into the watershed. And again, thank you. If you hadn't come tonight, I would have denied your appeal.
 I'll be very straightforward about that. And I have a hard time, it was a hard decision for me, voting against staff and voting against planning. But never thought I'd do this, but I'm gonna support this. Okay, anything else? DeAndre. So just to be certain, if we vote yes, that means we're supporting the neighborhood appeal. And if of course we vote no, that means we're supporting
 We're against it, right? I mean, because I've gotten lost in LA. Yeah, the resolution says you grant the appeal and you remove that section off of the Master Street Plan. Okay. Thank you. Mayor, before you ask for the vote, we need to do a sound check with our two Zoomers, and they had to log out and log back in, so if you don't mind for just a second, we'll see if we can hear them now. Okay.
 that's good i have a second for you let me do a sound check um sarah sarah no and we can't hear you again holly will you try i'm sorry we can't hear holly either i'm not sure how we're going to get the vote here tonight yeah i can see sarah i can't see holly so sarah can do that but holly can't do anything
 Holly, can you turn video on? No, we shouldn't. I have a question for Kit. Kit, if we can't see Holly, would a text message count as a vote? I think that if we can get the message to her, I think we can see her probably, and she can give us a...
 thumbs up or thumbs down if she voted yes or no. I don't know if you know the problem we can't see Holly we can see Sarah so Sarah could do that but I see Holly Holly unless you have a camera Holly here she is okay so we're gonna rely on the thumb method okay
 All right, thank you both. Mayor, we've got sign language here tonight. For yes and no. OK. I want to know if Holly would like to call in with her comments. She didn't have any. Oh, yeah, thank you. We double checked on it. So I don't think we have a motion on the floor. Yeah, there needs to be a motion to approve the resolution. I move we approve the resolution. I'll second. I have a motion and a second to approve the resolution.
 Karen, please call the roll. Jones. Okay, so I've proven the resolution means that voted for the appeal or against it. You're granting the appeal. I'm sorry. Yes. Moore. No. Whitaker. No. Vernon. Yes. Bunch. No. Oh, I heard you that time. Oh. No. Yeah. Turk. Can you hear me? Oh, sorry.
 Yes. And yes, Holly, we hear you. Turk? Okay. Hertzberg? No. No. There you go. Stafford? Yes. Mayor, it appears that the vote is four to four. I'm not going to vote. If you don't vote, then the appeal fails. Okay. We have the bond issue. Okay.
 Well, Mayor, we have figured out where we're at. There were two ordinances that were in Civic Clerk.
 I read the shorter of the two. Point of information on the last vote, I'm seeing quizzical looks because of the vote that was done via Zoom, because Holly was saying she could hear everybody and did a thumbs up. They just didn't hear Holly's vote. Can you confirm what Holly's vote was? Well, sure. Holly, was that a vote yes with thumbs up or a vote no, thumbs down? My vote was no. OK, that's what we thought.
 Anyway, so I read the first several pages of the ordinance.
 But then, the one I was reading ended with Section 6 and didn't go on to Section 7. So at this point, I need to read Section 7 through the rest of it so we can finish the reading of the ordinance. Where's everybody going? Oh, okay. We're going to take a little break. Okay. We'll wait. All right. We're taking a small break. Councilmember Bunch in Hertzberg.
 Let's go ahead and get started. Okay, now where were we? We were in the middle of the... No, well, no. We're going to table. Okay. What Kit read was correct. However, it was not complete, and the complete document is not out there.
 so we're going to get this straightened out so the complete document is out there and you all have a complete document and we will bring it back so i'm requesting that you table it to the next meeting okay well that's easy enough i am i'll make a motion we table it to the next meeting second all right we have a motion to second the table to the next meeting care which please call the road jones yes more yes we'd occur yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. So that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? We have a new business. We haven't even started. That's a good try, Mayor.
 Well, shall we say we're on? All right. All right, under due business. Wow. I predicted 10 o'clock, but I feel that that might be in jeopardy now. Yeah. An ordinance to amend 161.32 District P1 Institutional of the Unified Development Code. Kip?
 Whereas the intent of P1 zoning district is to protect and facilitate the use of property owned by larger public institutions and church-related organizations,
 And whereas the staff has identified opportunities to amend section 163.2.3.2 district P1 institutional to align with the district stated intent and requirements for other zoning districts. And whereas proposed change will better align P1 zoning district setback and minimum building height requirements with those of other zoning districts, add two additional conditional uses and increase flexibility for development in various contexts.
 and where staff and planning commission recommend approval of proposed changes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1
 At the City Council, the City of Tabler-Arksaw hereby repeals Section 161.32 District P1 Institutional and enacts a new Section 161.32 P1 Institutional as shown in Exhibit A attached here too. And I don't know if I need to begin or you need to begin on my proposed amendment to that. I've incorporated it into my presentation.
 I mean, if you want to go, you can go. If that works for the council and mayor. All right, go ahead. All right. Thank you. There we go.
 The intent with staff's time on this item is we want to cover five items for council tonight. I want to briefly introduce you or reintroduce you to the P1 Institutional Zoning District if you've not had a chance to dive into it, share some rationale for why staff is proposing this amendment, what this amendment actually is, and then the recommendation and how it was received by the Planning Commission. And then as Mr. Williams alluded to, a potential new amendment to be considered by council tonight.
 With that in mind and diving right in, the P1 Zoning District, as its name suggests, institutional zoning is intended for institutional uses.
 How this translates into Carmen parlance and what you may actually find around town as institutional users That can represent anything from a school to a park a hospital athletic facilities emergency services Those are all by right uses that the p1 zoning district allows it also allows some conditional uses as well things that you sometimes would find an association with some institutional uses like multifamily housing and
 Our interesting fact, our multifamily housing definition includes things like dormitories that you may find when you're thinking of like a seminary or activities like that.
 It also allows a few other conditional uses, most prominently wireless facilities. We do want to respect the FCC and allow cell towers everywhere, whether we are enthusiastic about them or not, as well as clean technology facilities, those less nuisance-causing manufacturing facilities that can contribute to our clean technology sector.
 As far as how those uses appear and defined in that zoning district is the most prominent Limitation of the P1 zoning district as regard to heights It has no defined height limit today, which may seem unusual But given some of the unusual uses you find in the institutional category that may not be surprising as it is today I
 You're allowed to go two stories in institutional use by right. And then as you move away from your property owner, you can go an equidistant amount higher and higher. A fun fact I want to make sure that's understood as we talk about height throughout this conversation is we do not consider architectural elements like steeples to be included in building height. So that is not a discussion. It shouldn't be a concern if the council is worried that we're going to run into conflict with some of those 
 but forms of expression that come alongside incorporating those features into a building.
 uh as to why staff is is considering this amendment or the amendment i'm about to describe uh first and foremost the next item on your agenda is a proposal to rezone a significant amount of publicly owned acreage for our parks department our parks natural resources and cultural affairs department specifically that comes with considering a lot of different areas of the city and they're not all uniform unfortunately the p1 zoning district is largely uniform as it's been written and as it's been instituted over the years
 Additionally, another consideration is that our, the main allowance in the P1 zoning district, which is called use unit four, which includes those categories like parks, schools, hospitals, it's allowed in many other zoning districts throughout the city, but there are many instances where P1 or a institutional,
 is the only appropriate use in that location. And we have concerns that applicants have often been driven towards requesting zoning districts that allow a wider breadth of uses that may not be appropriate just because they want to build an institutional use most commonly in an urban setting where the existing P1 zoning district would not accommodate it.
 So what is the proposed amendment that staff is bringing forward? It has three main elements to it. The first is the purpose section and we have added language to note that an urban form option is being proposed with this proposed or with this with this amendment. Our urban form options in Fayetteville offer an administrative approval route. It's been incorporated in our development code for well over a decade now. Developing an urban form is the
 the stick we want, we want in a lot of instances, people to develop in a way that addresses the street and promotes pedestrian access. And the care is that you can go through an administrative review process. It does have public notification and it's still subject to all the same standards
 As far as uses, the proposed amendment proposes to add two new conditional uses to the P1 zoning district. One of those is use unit 12B, general business. Those are your smaller scale non-residential activities. Think restaurants, retail, offices under 8,000 square feet.
 This had its genesis, frankly, in a proposal or change in ownership at Mount Sequoia. They recognized that they wanted to keep an overall institutional character to the property, but they wanted to insert some uses that were not serving solely that property. They wanted to have the potential to attract people from off-site. In that particular case, it was a coffee shop.
 Staff found that while that can be appropriate in some places, and we supported the rezoning up on Mt. Sequoia at the time, as did council, it may not always be appropriate. As a result, we're recommending it be a conditional use where it's subject to a higher level of
 Similarly, use unit 20 is being proposed as a conditional use. That's our large recreational property uses like golf ranges, things of that nature, recreational uses that take up large amounts of land. Sometimes that can be appropriate. Sometimes those can be nuisances where they create a lot of noise if it's like a big outdoor concert venue or something like that or a fairground.
 Again, it's often what you would think in association with institutional use, but in many locations it may not be appropriate and it needs that additional layer of scrutiny in mind. That brings us to the third piece of the proposed amendment, and that gets to the standards of the P1 zoning district.
 I'm going to be talking about building setbacks a lot. I describe those here as BSBs, building setbacks for brevity. Today, there's going to be, what's proposed are two separate sets of building setbacks, and that's for two separate contexts. The first is your more typical standard peripheral location. You think churches on large, or religious institutions on large pieces of land, parks on large pieces of land.
 They'll have conventional setbacks, which are currently are at 30 foot and 50 foot from the front property line. 30 foot if you want to put your building somewhat closer to the street or 50 foot if you want to put parking in front of it.
 That's being proposed to be reduced to 15 foot and 50 foot to reflect the fact that a lot of those properties are not significantly larger enough to justify that space. And that also reflects the C2 zoning district where we currently have a 15 foot front setback allowance for institutional uses as well.
 This carries through to both the side and rear setback standards. Currently in P1 it's 20 and 25 foot on the side setback. In C2 it's zero and 15, which we're proposing to carry over zero when you're next to another commercial use. So an institution like a hospital could be located with a shared wall with another portion of their facility.
 However, it would be increased to 15 if they're adjacent to residential property. So we're preserving that setback where sometimes institutional users need a bit of buffering
 Finally, the existing P1 building setback to the rear is 25 foot or 10 foot when there's an alley situation. Considering these are conventional setbacks, not in urban areas, we're proposing to maintain a 20 foot rear setback, especially with the convention in mind that many of these institutional properties back up to neighborhoods in a lot of our areas, especially along corridors, and that additional area may be appropriate.
 As I alluded to, there's two sets of setbacks proposed with this. That was the conventional ones. The second is what we call the urban form setbacks. So if you think about religious institutions or libraries or schools that may be in a more urban setting, a more centralized setting,
 This would allow a property to develop immediately adjacent to the street. Think about the Yvonne Richardson Center project most recently. In order for it to function from a zoning standpoint without being nonconforming, it needs to be allowed to front the street.
 Similarly, we propose a similar side setback on this. It could go to zero foot if it had a shared property line with a similar institutional use or another commercial use, but it has that heightened 15-foot setback when it's next to a residential use. And again, the same with the rear setback. It could go to the rear property line unless there's residential uses behind it, in which case it's a heightened setback.
 Oh, I'm sorry, I did not include the height change here. I'm sorry, I meant to include that. In discussing this internally, there was some concern about specifically the fact that the P1 zoning district has no set height requirement. If you have a bigger property, you can go higher and higher and higher. And then trying to create some predictability for residents and other users, we propose that replicate what the C2 zoning district has, which is a six-story height limit, and carry that forward with this proposal.
 with all that in mind staff is recommending approval of this request the planning commission considering it they forwarded to city council unanimously by a vote of nine to zero they felt that this was not only complimentary of the subsequent item subsequent item you'll be considering from the parks department but also that it would benefit city-wide institutions as well
 That also segued into a concern and conversation about unexpected nuisances that could result and the fact that there are several layers of processes throughout the city that can protect residents from it, such as our special event permit process, which this does not preclude. You still, if you want to have outdoor music venues, you may have to go to a conditional use permit. If you don't have one off events, you have to go through the police department and parking
 with that I didn't want touch on real quick mr. Williams item there was a proposal to or we discussed this many times over the years that our p1 zoning district references I'm sorry we're not a time
 How much? 36. Okay. That's perfect. Jonathan? The P1 zoning district makes specific reference to churches, which as we all know has a Christian denomination affiliation, which is likely the predominant religious observance in Fayetteville, but it does not acknowledge explicitly the potential for other religious denominations. So the proposal is to change the purpose language in P1 from church to religious institution
 Although the Planning Commission did not consider it, it came up recently, staff is in support of this and this is something we agree needs to change. I'm happy to take questions. And do you have, what questions? I'm the applicant. Okay. I'm sorry, anybody that has a motion to approve the application, please raise your hand. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 What's your amendment, Ken? Well, the amendment would be actually two parts because the, I would change the first whereas clause to say a property owned by public and religious organizations or institutions. I don't think we need to have larger in there anymore because we're allowing for foreign base or smaller things also. So we just say that. And then the purpose section.
 And I handed this out to the Ordinance Review Committee last night and sent everybody a copy of that this morning. Which say that the institutional district is designed to protect and facilitate the use of property owned by public and religious institutions. Again, I took larger out because with form basic it could be smaller. Larger facilities and institutions may still use historic setback regulations, but public and religious institutions may also choose
 to use urban form with built-in zones and minimum building street frontage, allowing administrative approval. So basically it
 It says the same thing. I've noticed this church a long time ago, but I didn't feel like it was worth coming up with a whole amendment just to go from church to religious so that we don't appear to be favoring any type of religious group, that it's just a religious group. But when I saw this being changed, I thought, let's go ahead and get rid of that secular-type problem and make it more general as religious facilities, religious institutions, and not just churches.
 Okay, you want to change the word from churches to religious organizations? Yeah, in the purpose I have an actual, I'd like to amend in exhibit A to what I have under this purpose section that I handed out in the memo. So it's a little bit longer, I think a little bit more clear about the urban form
 And then in the first where as clause, I would say that the property owned by public and religious organizations instead of larger public institutions and church related organizations. That would be my recommendation. Okay. Can I ask a question? Yeah. Okay. Well, number one is institutions or organizations, is there one better than the other as far as that goes?
 You know, you could say institutions or organizations. That's basically, I think, kind of the same term, interchangeable like that. So can I make a motion that we pass both of those, or do we have to address these one amendment at a time? No, you can do them both, or you can do them one at a time as you prefer. Okay. I make a motion we adopt both amendments brought forward by Kit. Second. Okay. We've got a motion and second to adopt both amendments by Kit. Any comments on it? No.
 Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? I'm sorry, Councilmember Bunch is gone. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 So what questions do we have, Bob? Okay, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. So I wanted to just clarify, I know that we, just a couple of crazy questions tonight. I guess it's getting late. So I wanted to clarify, you mentioned a lot of different kinds of institutions under P1. And we passed that cryptocurrency, and I can't remember what zoning type we went with that.
 That's a great question. If you recall, or if you're learning for the first time, each of our zoning district has a menu of allowed uses and conditional uses. Data centers was created as a separate use, not a zoning district, and it is not allowed by right or conditionally in the institutional zoning district. I believe we placed it in the industrial zoning districts.
 Thank you. I figured we'd gotten it right, but I just wanted to confirm. The second question, because you kind of mentioned steeples, and so it made me think about those big crosses that are like at Cross Church. Where do those fall into this category? How would that work? Be careful. I would love to let Mr. Williams answer that question. Okay.
 The way we handled it even before Jonathan's time with Jeremy when there was a church being built on Weddington, but now it is moved, is that they were not really part of the building. It was not an architectural feature. They were signed. They obviously expressed a message. And so they were under the sign ordinance and that limited their size.
 And I think that's probably the best way to do it. Now, when you have a steeple, that's really part of the building and I'll just yield to whatever, however you all want to handle steeples, even if it has something on top, whether it's a minaret or a cross or anything else, if it's a steeple, I'll just yield to what planning is already doing on that for height limitations. Thank you. The way our development code is calibrated, zoning code is calibrated is it's by stories, not by feet. That was a deliberate change about
 six or seven years ago. And the issue was that we were, I'm sorry, give me a little background. The issue was we were getting a lot of modern architecture. We're forcing a lot of people into modern architecture with flat roofs. And there was a lot of concern that we heard about that, both in the community and the design community. So we went to a story standard
 And we tied stories to building code standard for a story. So it's about habitable space. So it's habitable space between floor plate and floor plate. And a steeple does not have habitable space. It's just an architectural feature. So it is not subject to being described as a building story. Thank you both for those explanations. I don't know. Any other questions? Well, this takes public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber you have on zoom nobody on zoom raise their hand okay
 Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion would you like to have? What action would you like to take, Scott? I think Mr. Rick was first. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I don't want to hear it. I tried to get us out early. Okay.
 I really did. I worked it. All right. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Cledeker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Herk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. And in order to amend Section 161.32, District P-1, Institutional of the Unified Development Code.
 I'll make a motion we suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. And I'll second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Everybody, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. And Norwich amends section 161.32 district P1 institutional of the Unified Development Code.
 any final comments from the council no okay care which please call up jones yes moore yes yes vernon yes yes herzberg yes stafford yes okay number two
 an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-0007 for approximately two thousand four hundred and sixty one point six oh acres located at various city park properties
 from various zoning districts to P1 institutional. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from various zoning districts to P1 institutional.
 And section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville arc saw hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville for the zoning change provided in section one. John? Thank you, Mayor. As Mayor and Mr. Williams both referenced, this is a sprawling request that covers every single ward in the city, wards one, two, three, and four, and about 24 acres of land throughout the city limits of Fayetteville. Stepping back for a little bit of background and perspective on this.
 This is not the first time a request of this nature has come forward. The city is effective or aggressive, however you want to put it, about acquiring parkland through our parkland dedication tools, in the development code, through donations, through acquisitions.
 These do not always come to us with a zoning destination that's appropriate to be developed as parks property. Accordingly, in 2008, an effort was taken to rezone several properties, even more, but a smaller acreage, which was zoned to P1 institutional at that time.
 So, zooming forward about a decade, the voters of Fayetteville approved a sales tax bond project list, which included a number of parks projects. At that time, we began to identify
 hundreds of acres of parkland that did not have appropriate zoning for what the parks plan envisioned for those properties. That vision was further validated by our residents and ultimately by city council with the adoption of the Imagine Tomorrow's parks plans, which envisions not just one overarching classification of parks, but several different classifications, eight to be exact, that would need to be contextually established based on where they are in the city.
 which gets back to the previous item we just considered, adding that nuance for context within the P1 zoning district.
 for these 15 properties or 15 overall properties that are being proposed to be rezoned tonight. As was noted, it's 15 properties spread about just over 2,400 acres throughout Fayetteville to be rezoned from a variety of zoning districts to P1 institutional. I'm loathe to show you all lots of text on a slide, so I apologize for this next one, but
 This represents the scope of what you all are considering. Again, it is over a dozen properties, 15 properties totaling about 2,400 acres. Some of the largest ones include our city's lakes with the lakes within the city limits, like Lake Sequoia and Lake Fayetteville. They also include some of our more recent larger acquisitions like Centennial Park.
 Again, these came to us with a variety of zoning designations. Many of them are still developed as though for some level of development entitlement. In fact, if you look back at one of the previous master street plans we shared on an earlier item tonight, there is a street grid proposed on top of Mount Centennial Park where a subdivision was originally intended.
 Many of these things did not come to fruition. They came to our parks department, and now it's an appropriate time to take them from their residential, their commercial, their downtown, their industrial, their planned zoning district designations to more of a institutional zoning district that affords the parks group to program them for their necessary uses and those uses identified in the parks master plan.
 Which gets to a couple, some of the issues we considered. Many of these parks, because of that wide variety of zoning designations, are non-conforming. We ran into this most recently with the softball project being developed at Lake Fayetteville. The Parks Department had to come in and request a conditional use permit to expand their existing softball field. It's not a situation that we felt the city wanted to be in as we were stewarding our bond dollars to get these projects forward as quickly as possible.
 Rezoning them to P1 allows them to move forward in a manner that we feel like is already protected by both the council and the planning commission through other efforts such as your acceptance of these parks properties, your adoption of these parks plans.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending approval of this request. Planning Commission, especially with the, they heard the item similar to you all, especially with the P1 Institutional Zoning District Amendment as the item ahead of this on their agenda, forwarded it unanimously to City Council recommending in favor of it. We have received a significant amount of public comment on this item. I think I alluded to that at agenda session. It was very alarming to a lot of residents to see rezoning signs go up on,
 Over 2,000 acres of public parks, there was a lot of concern that there was intent to sell it, intent to develop it in a manner that was not responsible to the public. Without exception, from my understanding from staff, people were encouraged to hear that this was what was being done. The intent and effort was to use them as parks property and protect them as such. And I have yet to identify a piece of public comment in opposition to this request to date.
 With that, again, staff is the applicant for the site, or staff is the applicant, however, Allison Jumper is here as the director of Parks, I'm sorry, Parks and Natural Resources and Cultural Affairs. If you have questions, either of us are happy to answer those for you. Thank you. I think we ought to hear from Allison now. This is a vital moment for the Parks Department.
 She suffered through this meeting. I think we ought to give her a chance to say something. Really, I would just like to thank you for considering this tonight and for hanging in there. It's a little bit late. This really is largely a cleanup item and we would really like to get our properties into the proper zoning so that we can move forward more efficiently with projects. So I'm here for questions if you have any.
 Tracy. Sorry, I've got a question for just every topic tonight. Maybe this one's a little bit more on point than the last one. Scott had to tease me a little bit. So, like Underwood Park, I didn't see it on the list. Is it already zoned P1 already? Underwood is actually part of a...
 That's a good question. There were a lot of agreements with Underwood Park where that parkland would come to the city in stages as the adjacent property developed. And the portion that's in the PZD actually assumes parkland use of it. The PZD is calibrated only for it to be used as parkland. In other words, it's effective. I'm sorry, let me answer that more effectively. The parkland portion of it has the PZD's version of P1 applied to it.
 Do we have any other parks that are similar that are not included, I guess, that's in a PCD already that's designated as parkland? Not that I'm aware of. I know Ms. Jumper and her group exhaustively considered it. I think there are many parks that were not captured in 2008 in an effort to fully audit all the park acreage in the city. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Well, let's get some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this that's in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom? Nobody, Mayor. Okay. This is an ordinance. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have, or what action would the council like to take?
 I make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Excuse me, she's absent. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 endurance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-7 for approximately almost 2 500 acres located at various city park properties from various zoning districts to p1 institutional any final comments from the council yeah deandre do you have a cup nope bob do you have a comment i was just going to make a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 I thought we just did that. Oh, did we? No. I did just have one comment real quick. Sure. I just wanted to say thank you. I think this is a great project. I'm sure it was not a fun undertaking to go through all of that. So I appreciate the energy and effort on it because I think it will make those projects progress. And you're right. Taxpayers told us they want those projects to happen. So I'm happy to do that.
 Yeah, I really appreciate it when we do things like that that create those efficiencies, so thanks. Okay. Bob, you made a motion to go to the third and final reading? Second. And second. All right. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Why don't you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Arnott? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-7 for approximately 2 461 acres located at various city park properties from various zoning districts to p1 institutional
 Any final comments from the council? Everybody good? All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Lederker. Yes. Berner. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Ertsberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. School number three. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribing rezoning petition RZN 2024-0003 for approximately 1.5,
 1-0 acres located on East 12th Street, east of South Washington Avenue in Ward 1, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RAU Residential Intermediate, or KIPP. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A.
 and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban. In section 2 that the City Council and City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to South Fayetteville, about two blocks east of Walker Park. It's a piece of property, or it's a pair of properties, excuse me, two parcels that are straddling 12th Street. About 0.4 acres of the overall 1.1 acre site is on the north side of the street and is developed with two three-plex buildings. And the southern portion of the property, the larger of the two, includes about 0.7 acres and includes three four-plex buildings.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from NC Neighborhood Conservation, which this property received during the Walker Park Plan in the 2000s, to RIU Residential
 When evaluating this request from a land use compatibility standpoint staff does find it to be so This area is a mix of residential housing types including on the property itself There's a fable housing authority property to the east developed with attached residential housing and throughout the walk apart neighborhood You can find a mix of
 albeit predominantly single family homes, a mix of two, additionally two, three, and four family dwellings, all within a few blocks of this property. With the RAU zoning district allowing only the development of single two, three, four family dwellings and at a lower building height than some of our multifamily zoning districts, again, staff finds it to be compatible.
 When looking out towards our long range plans, staff finds it to be consistent with those. This property is designated as a residential neighborhood area, which is that future land use map designation that supports a wide variety of residential uses depending on context.
 Given this context, with a pretty well established street network, several items that you can see here contributing to an infill score of seven, staff finds this rezoning of this property to residential, intermediate, urban to be complimentary to both the surrounding area and to the future of this site specifically.
 A couple of items I wanted to bring to the council's attention. As I noted a moment ago, RIEU, the proposed zoning district, permits single two, three, and four family dwellings. The property is developed with five, three, and four.
 five buildings of which there are three and four family. And see the existing zoning district does not permit any single family or does not permit any attached residential units. So it is as of today, a non-conforming use of the property. However, there was a question which leads to my second point at agenda session of if there are alternatives to RAU that were explored and considered.
 in discussing this with planning staff, the answer was yes. Now there's only one increment other than RAU in our zoning code that allows single two, three, and four family unit or housing by right, and that's RI-12, residential intermediate 12 units break room. While that would address the use issue, it would not address the lot area requirement issue of the underlying property. The property is not large enough that it could actually be, would address that nonconformance issue. So RAU is the lowest requirement
 or zoning district that could be applied to bring this property into conformance, which as I alluded to or mentioned earlier, staff is supportive of it additionally because of compatibility and long range plan consistency reasons as well.
 There have been a couple pieces of public comment on this item. We have had some inquiry about it, although no statements of support or opposition from that individual. And there was a follow-up contact to staff expressing frustration about the previous property owner's maintenance or lack of maintenance of the property in hopes that the changing of hands to the applicant today will see it maintained or improved upon.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously by 9-0 with very limited comment and noting that our concurrence with staff's findings and finding it to be a compatible proposal. And with that, I am available for any questions. And Mayor, I'm seeing, I believe Addie Manzi is the applicant for this item, if I'm not mistaken. She's online.
 Who? Abby Manzi, and she has her hand raised. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 I'm sorry actually, Mayor, I believe she's here for the last item on the agenda. I don't see an applicant for this item. I'm sorry for the confusion. Thank you. Okay. We do have someone in person. That's not who I have found and who I've been communicating with. Thank you. Yes, please. Yes, it's time. I'm Paul Sims with SWO Consulting and I was going to echo what Jonathan said. He took the words out of my mouth.
 Currently sitting with three and four plexes on it, and that's what RIU allows density wise so it's simply making a non-conforming part two parcels bringing them into conformity and not increasing density and They do plan to remodel and improve the site. So I hope that makes the neighbor. I think her name was Penny I hope that makes Penny's day and That's all I had
 Okay, does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Bob? No questions. I was just going to make some comments. Well, sure. Okay. I support this. I'm familiar with the property. Its current state is in a state of disrepair, so I'm looking forward to having someone have the ability to refurbish, remodel, or rebuild these. One thing I want to point out is,
 Whatever happens here. We are adding this a lot of did see a South Washington Which I'm all for and I think the neighbors on South Washington are fine for it But I hope we get some improvements to that street at some point because South Washington is a pinched little street with rough edges and and it's a very walking neighborhood everybody down there walks ride their bikes and right now it's it's tight and it's a it's
 The street, South Washington itself is in, I would say, disrepair or just the design of it. Okay. What else? No? Alright. Well, let's take some public comment. Where's my line? Yes. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage any one public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to? Surprise, I lied. I'm back for one more. I hope you will pass this because it matches a long history of rezonings over the last several years for that neighborhood. It does resolve a lot of the technical issues Jonathan was talking about.
 And the maintenance issue is a big one down there, right? But I want you to be aware of the consequences because Improving the maintenance remodeling will probably raise the rents Redevelopment which I would support would also cost Probably a dozen affordable housing units in the town. And so with this which is a totally appropriate action and
 comes an increased need to look at other proposals that come forward with an eye to remembering the responsibility that you create with this decision to maintain affordable housing, encourage additional stock everywhere you can right now. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Who you got on Zoom, Susan?
 No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wish? Yeah, Mike. I saw Mike first. All right. I was just going to move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. I'll second. All right. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Oh, excuse me. I'm so sorry y'all. I'm so late. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property describing rezoning petition rzn 24 2024-3 for approximately one and a tenth acres located on east 12th street east of south washington avenue and ward one from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban i make a motion we suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading second we have a motion in the second to go to the third and final read coverage please call her up
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-3 for approximately one and a tenth acres located on East 12th Street, east of South Washington Avenue and Ward 1 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Any final comments? Yes, Tracy. I just want to point out that right now the owner could make any kind of remodeling or upgrades they want to. So there's nothing preventing them from doing that. So just a point of order here because it was sort of implied that rezoning had to take place in order to remodel and make it more suitable and habitable. And that simply is not the case.
 What is true though is that they'd be non-conforming houses without rezoning and so you might be reluctant to put a whole bunch of money into a house that's non-conforming that you can't change its footprint or something like that. Right, but if you kept the same footprint, you can remodel and upgrade without any penalty or anything. You're not changing the footprint of the house. Okay, thank you.
 I would just say that I think it'd be good to bring this into compliance and give them options.
 i i recognize the comments made by council member turk but also um you know this has historically been a very affordable spot i mean obviously if there's money put into it it's going to put pressure on what their rents are but um and we with rezoning we can't you know we can't do rent control we we can we can encourage that this can be you know as affordable as possible obviously you know we can say you know please consider you know the the break
 residents that have historically been able to be in this particular area. But the truth is whenever, you know, there are investments made, typically it does, you know, push folks out. And, you know, this is an area that I've been lucky enough to spend some time in. During the pandemic, those neighbors were hit really hard and we delivered food boxes to them and, you know, it's had the properties changed over, et cetera. So, I mean, we have a lot of changing areas within our community. I think it's,
 It's okay for us to acknowledge that sometimes we are going to lose housing stock. And as we think about those gaps that we've been shown by staff, trying to understand when we potentially do widening those deficits because it is areas that will have to improve somewhere else. So just something for us to consider, but not necessarily to say no by any means. Okay. Anything else? Yes.
 Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okey dokey. Let's go on to number four. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-0004 for approximately 11.67 acres located.
 in the Oak Brook and Bridgeport subdivisions in Ward 4, from our PZD residential plan zoning district and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RI12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre in NC neighborhood conservation kit.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from our pzd residential plan zoning district and rsf-4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and nc neighborhood conservation
 and section two that the city council the city of fayetteville are accelerated by a men's official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect his zoning change provided in section one jonathan thank you mayor with this item we are shifting to northwest fayetteville and toward four more specifically we're about a block or two west of rupo road between mount comfort to the north and weddington drive to the south
 This request includes about, or not about, exactly 54 platted parcels within the Oakbrook subdivision and the Bridgeport subdivisions. That sounds like it may be an even split, but in reality it's 53 platted lots within the Oakbrook subdivision and one within the Bridgeport subdivision, which you can see in the upper left-hand corner of the screen here.
 This property was zoned as the Oak Brook Planned Zoning District in 2010, with subsequent infrastructure improvements and platting occurring. Among the conditions of that PZD was that the subdivision had to be built out by a certain date or those entitlements would expire.
 This has since happened and as a result the applicant has come before council or has submitted application to rezone the property from its previous PZD designation to some existing zoning district standards including a mixture of NC neighborhood conservation on about just shy of half an acre of land on the east side of September Stroll, which you can see me indicating here between front ports to the north and winter evening to the south.
 and with the remainder of the property being rezoned to RI-12 totaling a little over 11 acres of land. Staff finds the request to be compatible. The NC zoning district, or both these zoning districts, were very specifically selected in coordination with the applicant with both the entitlements of the previous BZD in mind and the existing development in the area in mind.
 This portion of Fayetteville has large multifamily buildings about a block to the east. If you think about the links development segue into larger lot single family developments to the west and northwest, including the remainder of the Bridgeport subdivision.
 What the applicant is proposing is a mixture of single family, two, three, and four family dwellings on this property. It is worth noting, if you didn't get a chance to delve into the PZD requirements from 2010, the PZD actually had much higher entitlements, allowed six family attached units, so by our code, multifamily dwelling. So this is something of a down zoning from that previous zoning entitlement.
 Staff also finds this to be consistent with our long-range plans. This is similar to the last item, also a residential neighborhood area, which depending on the context supports different amounts of residential development. Given this location, again, segueing from the more intense multifamily development along Ruppel Road into the lower density single family developments to the west, staff finds it's an appropriate place to insert some.
 somewhat higher density single family homes in the form of neighborhood conservation and it's 40 foot lot widths and the potential for some smaller attached town homes or buildings through the RI-12 zoning district.
 As far as issues on the request, one of those is self-imposed. I'm going to talk about that right now. Being out on the tour on Friday, I realized that the exhibit A and B that were submitted with the ordinance don't make any reference to the NC, the neighborhood conservation portion of the request. So I'd like to hand out briefly a proposed amendment I'd like council to make if they're
 And to step back a few slides for any attending on Zoom to explain exactly what the amendment is proposing is
 We did not distinguish when we submitted this to legal that there was a portion of it, which I'm indicating here, those four lots to be proposed to NC Neighborhood Conservation, it was all captured as one legal, all going to RI-12. So I apologize for that confusion. And again, if council's willing to entertain that amendment, that would reflect the intent of the applicant's request, what was heard at the planning commission, what has been described to the public as well.
 And finally, the last item I want to touch on, as I alluded to or spoke to at agenda session, there has been some mixed public comment on this item. We have heard some concerns similar to an earlier item tonight that there'd be apartments built on this property, whether they meant that in the literal zoning code of the sense of five units are attached or more, I don't know what RI-12 allows is up to four units attached, which is again, less than the zoning entitlement that was granted under the PZD.
 We also had a group of residents come and speak with planning who approached staff with several concerns. They were afforded the opportunity to attend the meeting or submit comments. They ultimately did not, which hopefully indicates that their concerns were assuaged in some regard. Thank you.
 with that in mind and again please keeping the the amendment in mind staff is recommending approval of the request the planning commission afforded to city council unanimously they found that the applicants efforts to mimic their pre-existing or their previous zoning entitlement was commendable and compatible with the surrounding area and when recommended council approve it
 And with that, I'm available for any questions. And Mayor Tracy Hoskins is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Would you like to speak for the council? Good evening, council. My name is Tracy Hoskins. I am the developer and builder of Oak Brook subdivision. Oak Brook came through, I believe it was about 2000, I think the first time it came through was about 2007 or 8 or so. And then over the years, there's been some changes, some various changes in the PZD, which also over the years has been a little bit different.
 has created a little bit of confusion because
 Here we are 10, 12, 14 years down the road or whatever and so the same Planning department is not here today and the same Planning Commission is not here today and the same City Council is not here today and so so everybody gets a little bit of amnesia except for the guy that wrote the codes to begin with and sometimes my interpretation doesn't line up with staff's but staff is This is actually a collective effort staff suggested that uh
 And I remember this prior to when I was on the Planning Commission, we were trying to kind of get rid of all the old PZDs and get them into updated zoning. And so this is actually a collaborative effort with staff.
 that same regard to to get rid of the old PCD zoning and put the property in a zoning that was not available to us back then which basically almost mimics exactly what the PCD conditions were. In
 It's actually a little bit of a down zoning because as Jonathan has stated, under the PZD we could have done some multifamily or what have you and we never did and don't have the intention of that now. And as far as single family, two, three and four family or whatever, that's all stuff that we could have done under the PZD.
 So this is actually a little bit of a down zoning. We're not changing any of the lots, not changing the size of the lots or density at this time or anything like that. That's not what we're after. We're keeping everything basically the same as what it is. Also under the PZD, we could have done home businesses by right and so that goes away with this rezoning as well. So anyhow, there were some neighbors that were
 concerned at first and then we basically were able to show them explain to them exactly kind of what we were doing and basically, we're just bringing the neighborhood into the under current zoning and Hopefully alleviating a lot of the confusion that we've experienced in the last decade or so when it comes to pulling permits for various projects or what have you so
 I'll be here if you've got any questions. Thank you. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff? Bob? Yeah, I'm going through your 40-page document that you supplied. And thank you for that. Yeah, I didn't know it was 40 pages, but okay. Thank you for giving us more reading. It looks like you're trying to do stuff with certain vernacular with the southern, am I looking at the right project? Yeah, I believe so. Yes.
 Kind of southern vernacular and Americana kind of. Yeah, the PCD was actually in, I think it was five planting areas, I believe. And the area that we're working on now is what was originally phase two of Oak Brook, which would be, I think it was planting area three and planting area four, if I recall.
 Okay, and so that's actually the area that we are rezoning, along with four other lots along September Stroll and Westfield.
 And let me elaborate on those four lots. As we got into this, we were going to do the entire thing in RI-12. As we got into this, we noticed that we had four lots that would become immediately nonconforming because they're three feet too narrow under the RI-12 zoning. And so basically to cure that, we just put in neighborhood conservation because the minimum lot width on that, I believe, is 40 feet as opposed to 50 feet under the RI-12.
 And so, so we didn't want to have, immediately have non-conforming lots and so that's, we just chose to do those in the neighborhood conservation. Thank you. Okay. Tracy, I just want to make sure, this was handed out tonight. Are you familiar with this particular diagram? I'd have to see it. I want to take a look at it. I just want to make sure you're still in agreement with the proposal.
 Yes, this is correct. Yep. Okay. That's my only question. Bob? Anything else? Or, um, yeah, yeah.
 sit down and share that all right anything else teresa i just want to thank you both jonathan and you tracy for the tour that was really helpful the other day and then i want to move to amend to include uh the nc on the map that you handed out jonathan so that we're all correct uh tonight second we have a motion second to uh
 put the ENC on the map correct all right okay care would you please yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes okay any other questions well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber tonight on this reason?
 Okay. No. No, sir. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Warren. Yes. Lederker. Yes. Arna. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Arna.
 In order to rezone the property scribe and rezoning petition RZN 2024-4 for approximately 11.67 acres located in the Oak Brook and Bridgeport subdivisions in Ward 4 from RPCD residential planned zoning district and RSF-4 residential single family four units per acre to RI-12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and NC neighborhood conservation.
 Scott. I move we suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Burnham. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes.
 In order to rezone the property, it is cried in a rezoning petition RZN 2024-4 for approximately 11 and two-thirds acres located in the Oak Brook and Bridgeport subdivisions in Ward 4 from our PCD residential plan zoning district and RSF for residential single family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and NC neighborhood conservation. Any final comments from the council?
 Carriage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, let's move along to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-0005 for approximately .30 acres.
 located at 1510 West Markham Road Ward 4 from RSF 4
 residential single family four units per acre to Riu residential intermediate urban kit Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classifications property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF for residential single family four units per acre to Riu residential intermediate urban and
 And section two, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend its official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Allow me a moment. There we are. This request takes us to central Fayetteville, just west of the main University of Arkansas campus. You can see the Razorback Stadium just on the upper right-hand side of the aerial image here, a few hundred feet to the northeast.
 This property in particular is at the northeast corner of Markham Road and Hornsby Drive and it is developed with a single-family home built around the turn of the century County Records indicators built around 1906
 uh the request before council tonight is to rezone it from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban when reviewing the request from a compatibility standpoint staff what's had somewhat mixed findings on this this is a largely almost exclusively single family neighborhood especially in the immediate proximity you do see some more varied resident housing types as you move several blocks in different directions but
 And these blocks in this particular area, it is a uniformly single family. However, the RAU zoning district was intended to afford the opportunity for inserting some smaller scale residential developments in areas like this and try to be as compatible as possible, including that as a limited height requirement to be responsive to that required in a lot of our single family zoning districts.
 From a land use plan standpoint, staff did find it to be more consistent certainly than we were able to determine on the compatibility standpoint. The proximity of the property to Razorback Road, a major transportation corridor along which runs a trail, in addition to its proximity to the University of Arkansas campus, we found it to be an appropriate place for the potential for additional housing.
 that additionally it is located along a main transit line for Razorback, Razorback Transit as well. When evaluating the request, and one thing that ultimately pushed staff's recommendation one way over the other is the size of the lot. Ultimately there's not a substantial amount of development that can occur on it. The residential intermediate urban zoning district does have what appears to be very generous entitlements in that it has no capped density.
 However, that is ultimately capped by several of our development standards, whether that's requirements about the amount of imperviousness, the concrete or building footprint put down on the site or parking requirements if it's built residentially, which the RAU zoning district only allows.
 with that in mind staff ultimately felt comfortable that the scale of development would be responsive to the area and we are recommending approval of the request planning commission's recommendation was split however they did forward it to the city council ultimately but it was by a vote of eight to one there was very limited comment from the planning commissioners
 The dissenting vote felt that this was an incompatible request, however, and expressed frustrations that they perceived that the pressures of the U of A's growth in its student body was causing requests like this to be made and the potential for encroachments of what they perceived to be incompatibility in the neighborhoods west of campus.
 To date, staff has received no public comment either before the Planning Commission had it or since. I understand that there may have been some comment heard at a ward meeting, but I'll of course defer to the council members if I'm mistaken on that one. Available for any questions and Mayor, I believe Ashley Patrick or his representative is here for the item as the applicant. Thank you. Mayor Warranty, Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 good evening council will kelstrom on the here on behalf of the applicant lnf construction um granted the hour of the night i'll try to keep my comments short but um
 So what we're basically looking at is a 0.3 acre lot on Markham Road. It is, we're asking for a rezone from RSF4 to RIU. For reference, this is right behind those newish, taller houses on Game Day View that sort of overlook the stadium. They're right behind that.
 So a couple ways that this lot is different from a lot of the other lots in this neighborhood is for one of them, this lot is surrounded by other lots that have been purchased by the U of A and by several other lots that have been purchased by LLCs.
 After we sent out public notice, or as we were sending out public notice, we sent out probably 35 letters or so, and only about five or six of those were to actual individuals as opposed to the university or LLCs. And accordingly, there was not any public comment, as Jonathan just said. Okay.
 This lot is also, unlike a lot of the other lots in this neighborhood to the west of the football stadium, this is not in the hillside, hilltop overlay district. It doesn't have a real extreme slope. It's not on top of the hill like a lot of the other lots are.
 With all that being said, this is coming with staff approval. It's coming with an 8 recommendation approval from the planning commission. As Jonathan said, it's a pretty small lot. Even though you can build two, three and four family on this, you're ultimately going to be pretty limited by the size of the lot. There's really a limit to how much you can actually build here.
 with that being said uh rezonings like this or a real moderate increase in density is a good way to get more housing and gentle density increases in the city so with that i'm here if you guys have any questions um as well as my client ashley patrick thank you okay what questions we have for the african or the staff oh and no questions but uh oh okay i just think this is a
 You know, this being, you know, right a block away from the stadium with the growth of the university, I think this is a good rezoning walkable campus, you know, because of the pressures of the university and how many students are adding. I think I support this.
 You know, I wouldn't want to see this go up the hillside too much, but right here I think it's a good use of this spot. And so I'm gonna vote to approve. Okay, well that's good to know. Teresa. Thank you. I am very familiar with this lot. Extremely familiar with this lot. I would hope you would drive by, Bob, and maybe you already have. But the
 resident right next door is completely shaded out by those big high-rises that are right there on game day Road uh you know and he will be super squeezed in with this redevelopment uh it's kind it's really sad actually and his family has been in this town probably as long as yours maybe longer
 So we haven't done him justice by allowing these four and five story buildings, I think they're four story, to be built right next to him because he's totally shaded out and squeezed in. So my question to you, Jonathan, with the particular limitations on RIU because of the size of the lot, could a two, three, four apartment building be built there?
 What's the maximum density that could reasonably be built on this corner lot? It's also a corner lot, so it may have more entitlements than maybe some other lots. That's always a good question. When you all ask me that, I think there are a number of iterations of how the property could be developed.
 I don't know that I'm confident enough to say exactly what the unit count would be. I know developers can be very clever in how they can incorporate parking into their site as opposed to having surface parking. That can be a huge determinant of how much land can actually be dedicated to housing. Parking takes up a lot of surface area.
 I'm going to have to say, I don't know how many units it would have. The REU zoning district allows up to four attached units. If they were developed in that way, it would require one parking space per bedroom if it was done as townhouses. If it was done as single family or duplex, it would require two spaces per bedroom.
 and oh sorry the building height was the second question uh I pulled up Street View just for my recollection as well uh I believe the way the grade falls on those those houses that were built I think they're three and a half stories might be the the I know it sounds like I'm splitting hairs but I think they have like a half story at the top uh but the RU zoning district allows two up near the street and then you can go up to a third floor as you segue into the property
 Thank you for that. Yeah, it's just really kind of hard to tell what could be constructed there. And I really just, you know, I'm going to oppose this because this is an RSF4 neighborhood. And, you know, even though you didn't get comments, I know exactly how the neighbors feel about this. And, yeah.
 I don't think it's gentle development. I don't think those other houses on game day parking are gentle development at all. I really would like you all to go to drive by and take a look if you haven't already. So I'll hold the rest of my comments for later, thanks. Susan knows exactly where it is. Oh, I will.
 Susan's first house. Jonathan, just a quick question. All of our short-term rental licenses are used up. There is no ability for this development to become a short-term rental. That is correct. Ms. Masters, Jesse Masters, our development review manager, sent me the numbers before the meeting, and we are at 475. We're not even able to take any off the wait list this week like we've been able to do in drips and drabs since the beginning of the year. Okay, well, I guess we'll take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that i would like to address this that's in the chamber okay you have anybody on zoom yes sir okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a
 ordinance it's on the first reading what action would the council like to take or what comments would the council like to pop um i'm just going to say i understand the pain of of growth and that it's it's difficult we have to make difficult decisions i i still support this but we're on the first reading i'm i'm willing uh if other council members would like to leave this on the first reading and do uh
 drive-bys and stuff, I'm fine with that. I think I'll still support it. I just, our city is gonna change some and I think, you know, like I said, being within a block of Razorback Road and close to transit and close to campus, I gotta support it, I believe.
 Sarah? I just because you'd asked about whether or not you know we looked at the property or been familiar with the area, I did want to just confirm that I am familiar with this area, have been in that area, actually visit a homeowner not too far down for a year.
 flooding type issue, a short-term rental thing. But I've also been, if you kind of look, I'm looking at Street View and it was jogging my memory, there's actually a fraternity house, I believe it is, in one of the single family homes. It's like one of the fraternities, it's right there. They're good neighbors, it appears. I went to one of their fraternity meetings at one point.
 I echo some of the sentiments as far as, I think it's a special area. I've been here since the late 90s. I went to school here and that area has always been incredibly special as you go up that hill. It holds a lot of unique characteristics that are very unique as one of our hills in Fayetteville. I think there is sensitivity amongst us that are here on council.
 really the truth too is that there are pressures with the university and they're gobbling up space properties as well and this inevitability like they spoke about of you know where they've been encroached in that particular area is that you know when we can make those thoughtful decisions
 Hopefully we're going to get thoughtful development that goes in there. For that reason, I'm supportive of it. I'll be hopeful maybe the 1906 house will be there and have new development right alongside it. We'll have to wait and see what comes with that development.
 commiserate that I mean those changes are definitely you know hard to see and I think they're very special areas and I think we definitely have to talk about what policies and legislative changes with our master plans and how we do a potentially you know full-scale rezone in the city need to be looked at so that we can protect those special areas I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. That won't hurt anything to at least do that really.
 Okay, we have a motion second go to second reading care would you please call the roll Jones yes more Yes, we'd occur. Yes Yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg. Yes Stafford. Yes. Oh
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-5 for approximately three-tenths of an acre located at 1510 West Markham Road in Ward 4 from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 thank you mayor um i would ask that we hold this i don't think we need a tour i think you all can kind of drive by and look at the neighbor next door um and and see how that family feels the pressure of development and put yourself in maybe their shoes or consider it at least
 And yes, the university is gobbling up a lot of property, absolutely. There's no doubt about it. But the other part of this too is that this house was built in 1906. We're doing a University Heights historical context review. This house would, I can't remember if the line is right there on Hossel or if it actually goes all the way down to Markham.
 South to Markham it would have been it would be in this proposed district, so I'm not sure I'll have to check and get back to you, but it would be Nice if you all could just drive by and take a look at this Okay, so I assume we're gonna leave it. I'd like to actually advance to the third and final reading please second
 Okay. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bedecker? No. Berna? No. Terk? No. Hertzberg? No. Stafford? No.
 So we're going to leave it on the second rating, Mayor. Okay. Mayor, in advance of advancing to the next item, I did want to confirm Council Member Turk's comment. This property is within that study area for the Historic Context Survey. And, Mr. Mayor, if I could, I would just comment that, again,
 my no vote to advance it is not a no vote for the rezoning in the project itself but deference to award for council member the project is in that ward and I want to defer to that thank you okay Bob do you have something else oh okay it's alright I mean I don't I can
 Okay, let's go on to number six. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 2024-0008 for approximately .13 acres located at 3420 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4 from RA, Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services, Kitt. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northwest Fayetteville in Ward 4. It's currently developed with the stormwater facility for the Goddard School, which is located on the southern portion of this property at the hard corner of Mount Comfort and Salem.
 In July of 2016, the property on which the Garden School sits today was rezoned from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. More recently in January of this year, the property immediately to the north was rezoned from RA Residential Agricultural to Community Services.
 At that meeting, I advised that it was their intent to continue using this as their stormwater facility, and so they weren't proposing to rezone it. As the development plan has developed, it's been identified that they need to move that facility, and accordingly to use it for any portion of the project, it needs to be zoned in accordance. And so the applicant is here tonight requesting that it be rezoned also to CS Community Services.
 Of deference to the recent consideration the Council gave this item, which I believe was approved unanimously, I will forego some of my comments, but I'm certainly happy to double back and talk on those. In a nutshell, this does continue to find rezoning portions of this property to CS Community Services to be both compatible and consistent with our long-range plans.
 I did want to touch on one item, I believe it was Council Member Hertzberg brought up at agenda session, what's going to happen to the new sidewalk that was being installed while you are considering the rezoning. That is still being considered. This property is evaluating how to access sewer. If you'll recall, the sewer was offsite for this particular piece and there may need to be an extension as a part of that.
 So there is the potential that some of the sidewalk, which was recently built may have to be removed. All of that would be replaced at the applicant's expense, however. With that in mind, staff does recommend approval of this request. The planning commission forwarded it to city council unanimously with no comment. And there's also been no public comment either on this item. And I'm available for any questions. And Mayor, this time, Addie Manzi, who's online on Zoom is the applicant for this item. Sorry for that confusion earlier to both you and her.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah. Perfect. Yes, I am here to answer any questions that you may have. Yeah, we are planning to rezone this property just to get it in the current zone that we are for the Goddard School. But yes, I'm here for any questions you may have. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Anybody gets one turn to speak, you have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council. Members, stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this? Nope. And no one on Zoom. All right. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 It's on the first reading. What is the wishes of the council and what discussion would they like to have? I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Warren?
 In order to rezone the property described in... Uh-oh. All right. We've still got another one. Hertzberg? No. Yes. Stafford? Yes. All right, Bob. I knew how you were going to vote. I was just anticipating that. In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-8 for approximately 0.13 acres located at 3420 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 i would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading no motion second to go third and final reading care which please call the road jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Tert? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 2024-8 for approximately 0.13 acres located at 3420 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the Council?
 carowinds please call the roll jones yes moore yes wedeker yes vernon yes turk yes herzberg yes stafford yes now as i was saying susan do you have any uh see i tried to save you all page anyway no sir i don't have any announcement at this hour all right
 We are traveling to somewhere tomorrow morning, aren't we? At Northwest Art and Subcouncil. Yep.