2019 reporters. Sunridge, please call the roll. Sorry. Sunridge, please call the roll. I'm going to get to Fetch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Scoggin. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. All right, welcome everyone. Under recognition, I would like to recognize Dr. Gerald Jordan and his news reporting one class from the University of Arlington. So if you'd stand to be recognized, please. No? That's the whole class gets to stand up. Yeah, there you go. That's good. You will certainly have something to report on after this evening. All right. Under reports tonight, we have the monthly finance report with Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm going to report on the month of February, month two in our fiscal year. We remember we got off to a little rocky start in January. We were down. February, we picked up a little bit. We're still down on the general fund, about $72,000 compared to budget at a year-to-date basis. Sales tax is down about $17,000 compared to budget. Building permits are down about $57,000. However, as I say, that's less than 1% of budget or $72,000 for the general fund. So I'm not overly concerned at this point in time. As far as street fund is concerned, the street fund is up 2%. That is basically because of the sales tax on gasoline that is turned back from the state. HMR, we started with 3% down, excuse me, in the month of January. We picked up, we were up 5% in the month of February. So right now we're about 1% over what budget had been anticipated. The parking fund, that was the HMR fund, that parking fund, parking fund is down about $4,000 or 1.3% of budget at this point in time as far as parking revenue is concerned. However, fees are up a bit for fines. So we're pretty level compared to budget at this point in time. Water and sewer is up 3% over budget. The volume and usage is about the same as it was at this point last year. At this point in time, the 3% increase is generally due to the automatic cost of living increase factored into the rates. Trash and recycling is up 3%. It is down about $100,000 compared to budget. But if we remember, the new rates have not gone into effect yet. They will go into effect next month. As far as the airport, the airport is also down. Gasoline sales are down 18% compared to budget. That's compared to, remember, last year. We had a very, very heavy year. Flights in general are down as far as the rental income, et cetera. That's holding fast. We'll keep an eye on that at this point in time, but that is down. So economic... The activity is down just a little bit compared to what we had anticipated for the first two months, but we're showing signs of picking up again. So I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Next we have the ORT Ozark Regional Transit Report. Thank you, Mayor, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the Public Information Officer for Ozark Regional Transit. Just giving you a periodic report. Over our ridership for the year, for the entire network, has been 21,465 year to date, which is a 5.5% increase over last year. I should say that 2018 was probably the year that we bottomed out, at least we hope so. Ridership continued to decline all last year, so hopefully we will see increases based against that throughout the year. Last time I was here, we didn't quite have the year-end results yet for our ridership. And ridership for Fayetteville in 2018 was 124,417 compared to 115,128 in year-end 2017, which is an 8% increase. So Fayetteville kind of bucks the trend with the rest of the system in that we had an increase in ridership in Fayetteville, and there's a decrease everywhere else. Year-to-date ridership in Fayetteville so far this year is up 34%. And of those riders, 200 were wheelchair-accompanied and 223 were bicycle-accompanied. We have recently received four brand-new minivans converted to be wheelchair-accessible in February. So we received four new. We retired three, and those three, believe me, had well outlived their useful life. One of them had right at 300,000 miles on it, which is a credit to our maintenance facility. Okay. We received a year ago a grant to replace the final 12 buses that were lost in the fire that we have not been able to replace yet. Those buses are currently on the assembly line in Indiana, and our executive director and our maintenance supervisor is going up there tomorrow to inspect and hopefully be able to sign up on things and start receiving the first of those within a couple of weeks. RECEIPT HAS BEEN DELAYED DUE TO THAT GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN WE HAD BACK IN JANUARY. WE WERE FILLING OUT THE REPORTS FOR THAT GRANT, BUT THERE WAS NOBODY IN FORT WORTH TO ACCEPT THEM, SO EVERYTHING GOT PUSHED BACK A FEW WEEKS. WE HOPE TO RECEIVE ALL 12 OF THOSE BUSES OFF THE ASSEMBLY LINE BY THE END OF MAY. WE ALSO GOT A GRANT BACK IN SEPTEMBER TO BUILD A NEW ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AND OPERATIONS CENTER. AND WE'RE LOOKING TO GET THAT We've had to kind of punt on that one a little bit. The FTA was telling us, the Federal Transit Administration was telling us that the way that you administer the grant and start construction of such a thing is to qualify bidders and then have them do a design build. Well, no. It was kind of like sitting in an episode of Shark Tank because we were talking to the contractors and architects and they said not for $2.9 million. We're not going to do that. We've kind of backpedaled, and so we interviewed several architect engineer firms yesterday. And so we will go through a whole vending process with that too, and then start looking at that. But it's probably going to be 2020 before we actually get that building built. We've been working well with Razorback Transit. I don't speak for Ridgeback Transit, but I have been in a couple meetings with them this week and one of the things they're doing is they have switched over to a numbering system for the routes and gotten away from the colored system and we already have a numbered system And they have turned over all their data over to Google Which we did a couple years ago that I believe they had you know a lot more administrative Hands in the pot in order to be able to do that. So But in the very near future, we should be able to, everybody go on to Google Maps and route out their trip and be able to look at Razorback Transit in conjunction with ORT and to the end user it will be one seamless system, hopefully, we're hoping. Where it would be just getting on bus 16 and transferring over to bus 11 and one's ORT and one's Razorback Transit. Another step in that direction, Razorback Transit uses a tracking software called Passio. We're abandoning our tracking system due to a lot of other issues, and we're going to go with Passio as well. So the phone apps are going to be the same, and apparently, from what I've been told, You'll be able to look at both systems in conjunction on one phone app and also be able to route out your system. So truly, if all the things that the IT gods – tell me is true, then Fayetteville is truly going to have a viable transportation system in the very near future. So thank you all very much for being behind us through our times of need and just in general. And with that, I will open it up to any comments, questions, or concerns. All right. Thank you, Jeff. What questions do we have? Anybody? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the good work you're doing. Okay. The next order of business under agenda additions. Okay. I know that the city attorney has drafted up a resolution against Senate Bill 631 that I'm bringing to you tonight, and I will need a motion and a second to add this to the agenda. Sarah. I move that we add the resolution to the agenda. Kyle. Second. I have a motion and a second to add a resolution against Senate Bill 631 to the agenda. Son, would you please call the roll? I'll have to add agenda edition. Okay. Fudge? Yes. Perk? Yes. Mint? Yes. Terrace? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Yes. And as I told you at the agenda session, I was planning on doing this and I heard much response from the aldermen or the city council members. We couldn't really put you all down as sponsors, but let me read the resolution for the record. A resolution to express the city council's support of local citizens' rights to regulate and encourage development that preserves the property values, beauty, and vitality of their own community... and our citizens' and Council's opposition to Senate Bill 631, which would remove our citizens' right to maintain Fayetteville as one of the fastest-growing and most desirable places to live and work in the United States, whereas Senate Bill 631 would remove the authority of our citizens and elected city council to ensure Fayetteville remains the attractive, healthy, and prosperous city it has become in the 26 years since the Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance was passed unanimously by the City Council on April 20, 1993. And whereas the stated and proven purposes of the Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance are, to create a desirable environment for Fayetteville residents, businesses, and industries, filter pollutants from the air and release oxygen, decrease stormwater runoff, increase property values, protect investment, screen incompatible land uses, unquote, and several other beneficial purposes. And whereas the Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance was the result of long-term and extensive consultation with and cooperation and compromise by developers, city staff, realtors, environmentalists, planning commissioners, builders, landscape professionals, and members of the Fayetteville Board of Directors, and whereas the Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance has always ensured that builders and developers can profitably develop and use their property by providing numerous mitigation possibilities when trees need to be removed for successful development. and whereas Senator Bart Hester's Senate Bill 631 endangers the local consensus and cooperation between the development community and environmental community, epitomized by the Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance, which has served Fayetteville and its citizens well for over a quarter century, helped put Fayetteville on the Best Cities of America list, and dramatically increased local property values. And whereas Senate Bill 631 should not be enacted into law because it is absolutely unneeded, undesirable, and a sad example of big government dictating the revocation of a strongly and widely supported tree preservation and protection ordinance which should remain within the power and authority of our citizens and their locally elected and locally serving representatives. Now, therefore, it be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby expresses its wholehearted support to maintain and strengthen the right of local governments and their citizens to decide local development issues, especially one as revered by the Fayetteville citizens as their tree preservation and protection ordinance. and hereby request that our state representatives support local citizen control over how their town or city should develop, rather than having out-of-town legislators dictate what our community should look like, and request that all Arkansas senators and representatives vote no on Senate Bill 613. 631. Okay, there you have it. 631 was something that was introduced about two weeks ago, which... I know I made the statement I thought the 550 was one of the worst looking pieces of legislation I've seen. Well, it looks like those hits just keep rolling in. This basically to me is nothing much more than a tree slaughtering bill that is being introduced by the legislature. And so we will take any questions that you might have or what's your thoughts? Just on a personal note, I was on the City Council in 93 when this was being presented. It was being presented by one of the most conservative members of our City Council, Fred Borsanger, very strong in the chamber and a good friend of businesses. And he's the one that explained to the City Council how long this had taken and all the compromises and cooperation between the developers and environmentalists to come together for this tree preservation and protection ordinance. Since that time, for the six years I was on the council, now 18 years as city attorney, I have seen a couple issues come before the city council over this tree preservation plan by developers. But I believe that never has a development been turned down without some possible work around and so that this tree preservation ordinance has not stymied a development. The City Council and the Planning Commission have been very responsive in trying to ensure that even though we want to preserve trees, we want to be fair to everybody. And so this particular bill is certainly not needed by anything that's happened in Fayetteville. Of course, it's not being introduced by everybody in the state legislature. We've got some fine working state legislators down there as well, particularly from this city. I will compliment them. But this one was something that was actually introduced by Senator Hester, which there you go. If I could add just a few comments. I want to remind the council and for the public record that 91% of our citizens said that preservation of mature trees is important to the characteristics and support of infill development. 85.5% of the citizens in Fayetteville support acquisition of land for trails and conservation corridors, which are typically our hillsides and our canopied areas. 81.5% of our citizens of Fayetteville support acquisition of land for parks and conservation land and the protection of forested hillsides in the city of Fayetteville. We met with developers, designers, engineers to go through a recent review of our process of our tree preservation ordinance and the protection codes. The last meeting was on July the 12th. We had very strong participation in that meeting. We asked about tree preservation and protection changes that they're interested in, and we had a very positive reception, but I will say that zero, zero percent of those in attendance stated that they wanted this removed from the code. So, even our development community was supportive of our preservation requirements. We even had a quote from one of our developers I want to share. It says, looking into the future, Fayetteville loses tree canopy to hard surfaces. We will be less attractive to high quality developments. We'll bear the burden of resulting erosion problems, increase in heat island effects, and the loss of the quality of life that our residents and visitors of the city want to have. And we think that captures really the majority of where our citizens stand on this issue and is why this bill would be detrimental to the city of Fayetteville. Not to mention just the development that we have had in our community. We've had canopy laws since 16, 17, and 18. And in each of those years, even in the replacement canopy that was replaced, it will take between 45 and 50 years for that canopy to grow to the same size. And so it is important. I might also add that our ordinances do not prohibit the removal of trees. As you know, all of our zoning districts allow for tree removal. We have minimum canopy requirements depending on what they are, but it does not require THE INABILITY TO REMOVE TREES. AND I ALSO MIGHT ADD THAT IN LOOTER ROCK THERE'S A LOT OF DISCUSSION THAT SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTS MIGHT BE RESTRICTED FROM THE REMOVAL OF TREES AND THE CITY OF FAY VILLE ORDINANCE DOES NOT PROHIBIT ANY SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OWNER FROM REMOVING THEIR It does protect them when we have development of subdivisions, when we have development in commercial, industrial, all of our zoning districts, but it does not prohibit a landowner on their property from maintaining or removing trees once that property has been developed. Also might add that this particular bill not only speaks to trees but speaks to landscaping requirements And so we believe it has a significant impact on the city's landscape Requirements that are in our code and for that reason and to represent the majority of our citizens We think that it is very prudent to oppose this legislation so uh i just want to say um thanks to our city attorney and mayor for bringing this to us i think this is pretty important that we keep our tree ordinance as somebody who's worked in and out of development probably for two decades now i know the importance of having a place that people want to live to build if you build stuff where people don't want to live that's that's a problem so i'm Glad that we have the ordinances. I understand people are like it's hard to build here But they keep building and they keep building because we have the ordinances I'm glad to see this We will take some public comment everybody gets one turn at the microphone five minutes Keep your comments to me Stay on topic Don't engage the council member, anybody out in the audience. So you can get more time if the council members, by motion and a second and a vote, the majority of the council gives you more time, then they'll stipulate how much time that will be. And then we'd like to have your name and address, please. So who would like to address us tonight on this resolution? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we approve the resolution. Thank you. Second. Now, Council, I would like very much if this passes tonight, which I think there's a good chance it will, those of you that I'm going to sign this resolution tonight, we will send it to the city, county, and local government committee tomorrow morning before they may discuss it or not, but I want us on record before they even – I know the chief of staff will be going in the morning to Little Rock. So we will send that resolution. I also would, if you want to, if you want to stay after this meeting and actually just sign on the resolution with me, I mean, I would really appreciate that. So you've got your signature on there if you wish for it to be on. Okay? All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Sorry, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. Yes. Thank you, Mark. Very much. Okay, the next ordinance we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 19th, 2019 City Council meeting of mandates. Number two, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Wings Avionics, Inc. for the airport hangar at 221 Ernest Lancaster Drive for rent in the amount of $1,649.38 per month. Number three. A resolution to approve a one-year lease agreement with Atlas Interiors LLC for the south side of the corporate hangar located at 4166 South School Avenue. Any amount of $850 per month with a requirement to provide certain minimum aircraft maintenance services. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 19-23 and authorize the purchase of a RTKGNSS system from Laser Specialists Incorporated in the amount of $18,420 plus taxes to be used by the engineering division for in-house engineering design work. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $12,478, recognizing parkland dedication fees from the Southwest Park Quadrant to be used for the purchase and installation of two 20-foot shade umbrellas. at the Wilson Park swimming pool. Number six, a resolution to approve the renewal of four special needs assistance program grant agreements with the US Department of Housing and Urban Development in the total amount of $283,976 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Number seven, A resolution to authorize the purchase of a new Holland 260 speed rower from Williams Tractor Incorporated in the amount of $142,130 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract for use at the biosolids management site. Number eight, a resolution to approve a one-year contract extension with Williams This form technology is incorporated any amount not to exceed five hundred and twenty eight thousand six hundred and ninety three dollars and fifty five cents for rehabilitation of sanctuary sewer mains using cured in place. Sanitary sewer linings and approval of a contract amendment to exchange the professional engineering endorsement to new city staff. Number nine, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of forty seven thousand seven hundred and forty nine dollars plus split taxes from. AIT Services, Incorporated, for the replacement of the fill auger assembly and exhaust scrubber condenser assembly on the biosolids management side thermal dryer system and to approve budget adjustment. Number 10, Permanent. A resolution to approve supplemental agreement number two to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the additional amount of $18,082 to add final engineering design and bid services for the replacement of an existing 24-inch water main adjacent to Morningside Drive associated with utility relocations necessary for Arkansas Department of Transportation job. 040579, number 11, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a replacement emergency backup generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company in the amount of $26,965 plus applicable taxes pursuant to a source well-swapped and purchasing contract for use. at the Futrell Drive lift station. And number 12, a resolution to authorize purchase of a replacement emergency backup generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company in the amount of $102,545 plus foot taxes pursuant to a source wealth locked in purchasing contract for use at the Farmington lift station and to approve the budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Son? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Son, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6488 for approximately 0.42 acres located at 825 West Montgomery Street, from RSF for residential single family four units per acre to our Mf6 residential multifamily six units per acre subject to a bill of assurance That was tabled and it was left on the third reading and table to this meeting Yes, we would suggest that you accept a Slight amendment section 3 which reads a copy of this ordinance along with the bill of assurance shall be recorded in the office of the city a circuit clerk an ex-official record for Washington County, so we would request that you add Section 3 to that. Most zonings do not have to be filed of record, but if they have a bill of assurance, it's better to have them filed of record. Okay. So that's an amendment of Section 3 that would say something short here, just adding the bill of assurance? Right. It's saying that it should be recorded in the circuit clerk's office. Okay. Okay. All right. Sarah? I move we add the bill of assurance in the language stated by Kit. Yes, it's what I handed out to you all in Section 3. Okay. We'll be adding Section 3. Kyle? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend the bill of assurance to Section 3, correct? No, it's actually to amend the ordinance to have a new Section 3 that does talk about that. filing and recording the bill of assurance. Okay. All right. Very good. All right. Before we go, is there any public comment on the bill of assurance? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Any comments? Very good. All right. Senator, would you please come to the row? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now we're back to the amended ordinance. Does staff have anything they want to add? Mayor, I don't have anything to add. Is the applicant here? I believe Mr. Posey, the applicant's representative, is here. Then I can speak for the council. Yeah, please come up. Brock Posey, Southern Brothers Construction, representing Mr. Tim Ballard on this property. Just here for any questions. You guys already know the whole role, so if you guys have any questions, I'm here to answer them. Thank you. Is there any questions from the council? Mr. Pope. Okay, thank you. All right, we will take public comment on this. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have five minutes. Keep your comments addressed to me. Don't engage the council member, anybody in the audience. Stay on topic. You can get more time with the council by a motion and a second, and a majority of the council vote to give you more time. Then they'll stipulate how much time we're going to give you. or if they ask you questions. So please give us your name and address, who would like to be first. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council then. I'm sorry. My name is Tracy Youngblood. I live at 40 West Greenwood Street. So in the initial application, the – developer asked for exactly what is spelled out in the bill of assurance um an rmf6 rezoning and even in the application the developer called it an unusual request and it was an unusual request because it is breaking with the residential single family for character of the neighborhood And in their initial assessment, the city said that it would be much better to use existing tools in the RSF for toolbox. The current zoning that we have, that would be more appropriate. And those tools would have been to build two single family homes with accessory units or one duplex with an accessory unit. However, this developer is wanting to build two duplexes, hence the rezoning request. So two two-story duplexes, again going back to the language of the city's assessment, introduces a different typology and inconsistent development pattern into the neighborhood. It's also a density that, for safety reasons, is problematic for a single entrance area. A comment that I shared previously was that if this neighborhood were being built new now, 30 households would be able to be built for a single entrance, and our neighborhood already has 31. The RMF 6 was the developer's big ask. It was an ask to change the reality of the neighborhood that he bought in. And instead of negotiating for something more in character for the neighborhood, this proposal and the bill of assurance gives the developer their first choice, their big ask, that even they noted in the application was a long shot. Thank you. So at this point, recognizing that this is something that the city planner with the bill of assurance has worked to make sure is going to be limited in a way that isn't egregiously out of character for the neighborhood. I understand the value, its value as a compromise. And I want to share with you my, my main concerns that I still have at this point. I believe that the multifamily zoning could set a precedent for the entire east side of the neighborhood. The same person who owns the house that's currently being rezoned also owns the house across the street. It's also a large lot that is potentially a place where more buildings could be built. I shared the last time too that a realty company recently bought the one plus acre property that is contiguous to the two properties that this man from Fort Worth owns. And so I, and that this realty company has begun approaching my neighbors about buying their homes. So you can understand the concern that chipping away at that single-family zoning is the first step in what is already this slide toward a very different character neighborhood, a multifamily character neighborhood. So that risk of overbuilding is a big concern of mine. Another concern is the single entrance. We talked about the 30 households, how we already have... 31 and this would be adding yet another. So I have questions about how the city would be able to help our neighborhood to stay safe and to keep this kind of fluid coming and going in the entrance of our neighborhood if it is overbuilt. And finally, a third of our neighborhood sits in a floodplain. So I wonder how the increased density and development is going to affect our creek, which my kids are sitting here today. And they're only here today because I made them come because they would rather be playing in the creek. And I have concerns about that. I have concerns about the stormwater. about the entrance and I haven't heard those addressed and I don't know how the bill of assurance is going to open up a dialogue for us to be able to make sure that our safety and well-being in the neighborhood is maintained. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Linda Baker. It's nice to see you all again. I live at 30 West Greenwood Street in this neighborhood. I'm here today because my main concern Teresa touched on was safety. I feel this rezone as is compromises our safety as a neighborhood and I just have some information to share that I kind of found out today. I measured and it's approximately 27 feet wide, our ingress and egress, and it's about a 180 degree turn from school. Effective radius of the curvature of vehicles follow when turning per the US Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration Turning buses and trucks require 25 to 30 feet. So we're at 27 28 and 35 feet for large vehicles. An acute angle corner may require a slightly larger radius to accommodate larger vehicles. Now I understand that's not faithful, but that's the United States Department of Transportation. The 180 degree turn off of school would need approximately 28 to 43 feet for a single unit truck or bus. per the Texas Department of Transportation Minimum Designs Manual. We have about six school buses coming to our neighborhood a day. And... So the average width of an ambulance is about eight feet. The average width of a fire engine is about eight feet. The average vehicle width is about six to six and a half feet. So you can see where if someone were to park on the street, like four cars did today, that we may have trouble coming in and out safely, and especially if there's an emergency with many elderly people needing an ambulance. And then there's something I want to share from the Arkansas fire code. It says developments of single family or two family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall be provided with separate and approved fire apparatus access roads that meet the requirements of D107.1. There are some pertinent exceptions are the ones that I'll read. Where there are more than 30 dwelling units on a single public or private access way, and all dwelling units are protected by approved residential sprinkler system, access from two directions shall not be required. I don't have sprinklers in my home. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of no less than 20 feet. So again, hopefully no one parks on the side of the street. The minimum turning radius shall allow for the largest apparatus to turn onto an adjacent street without entering into oncoming traffic and without going over a curb. That's pretty impossible if there's more than two cars waiting to turn out of our neighborhood. I know that was a lot to process, and I appreciate your time. What this means to me is that our neighborhood would be more unsafe if a rezone for additional dwelling units is approved without appropriate safety guidelines addressed, which they have not been. These are current up-to-date guidelines that I found today on the internet. And they're to protect the city citizens, you know, that we all love and live here. So I just feel like we should deserve as much safety as any other new neighborhood that gets built. So, you know, big picture, like, there should be no more blowing units approved until some of this fire safety and safety issues are addressed. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address some of this? Hi, good evening. My name is Robert Davis. I live at 1 West Montgomery Street. It is directly affected by this because I'm only one door down. Just a few words. Throughout this process, I've heard some very compelling and heartfelt arguments against this development or rezoning. We have shown up to every single meeting asking for the help of our elected leaders here. You know, many of us have voted for you guys and we support you with our tax dollars. I can assure you that the combined taxes paid by the people in this neighborhood, especially some of them living here for 50 plus years, far outweigh any taxes paid by this company. This feels like a classic case of the people versus business. This council is supposed to represent its constituents and, you know, not necessarily bend to the will of the companies around us. You know, if we accept this amendment, it's going to feel like a shot to the gut for this neighborhood. You know, I'm just concerned about the same things they're concerned about. Flooding, safety, parking, identity of the neighborhood, trust of the people. I don't lock my doors. I don't have to. I live in a great neighborhood. And I just want to keep it that way. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on this? Hi, my name is Chaley Burke. I live at 60 West Greenwood Street. I have lived in this neighborhood most of my life. I currently operate a graphic design studio out of my childhood home, which I inherited when my parents passed. So I'm 28. I've lived there over 20 years. I don't have anything specific to add to what's been said, except that I deeply support and am very invested in the project. retaining the culture of the neighborhood as we experience it today. Having grown up there and having watched Teresa's kids grow up there and my own nieces and nephews now growing up there, we want to make sure that the city is interested in the same way that we are in maintaining the integrity of the neighborhood's character. I'm not terribly excited about multi-family housing in what is traditionally a single family housing neighborhood. We also, I think, all have concerns about how this housing will be used if it's. Going to be sold if it's going to be rented I'm not partial to either but I want to know that there's going to be eyes in the neighborhood that we're all feeling like we're investing in the same space and that we're creating a community and when people who don't live in the neighborhood are Investing in it by developing properties there we don't really know that they share our values and our values are for a strong community and and a strong sense of neighborhood in that space. And so I second all of the concerns about safety, about ecological damages due to maybe improper building techniques or ill-considered building styles. And so without having more to say, I just wanted to share my support for retaining the integrity of our neighborhood. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Thank you. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council first. I've got a couple of You may have been going there, but I'd like the fire marshal Some of the things that were commented chief do you want to address this on this yes, sir? I'm sure you all reviewed this Well, I'm sure the fire marshal has the you know the number of homes in the neighborhood is very difficult to retroactively enforce And new developers, we can do the two ways, in and out, for new developments. But it's very difficult to force a member. You'll have to correct me if I'm wrong, Garner, but for the person that builds that 32nd home or the 31st home beyond the limit in an established neighborhood, it's difficult to tell them they also have to build an entire street in and out of that area. Garner? Yeah, I concur with the chief. A question that... Can't be answered tonight, but is that whether or not these duplexes would need to be sprinklered due to the fact that they're over the 30 limit? But that that that. Question will be answered by the fire marshal when we get to the building permit stage. Oh, so we get to the building. This is a zoning, not a permitting issue, correct? So you're saying that could be addressed when it gets to permitting? Yes. That will have to be decided up or down. Yes. Okay. So you feel the engines can make it down the street? Have they been down the street before? Yes, they have. And yes, I think they can make it down the street. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thanks. Anybody got any questions? Yeah. Yeah. So the main thing that I feel like, just to clarify, I think I've been down there to look at it, but the idea is that just to make the picture so I understand you're saying that the fire truck can go through, if there's three residents and that – and they park in their driveway and they have someone there and they're parking on the street. The street is so narrow if you have cars parking along the street and you have a fire truck and I think that's what they're saying. So, I mean, what kinds of things could we think about in that case? I mean, how does that get handled? I don't know if that's a question for you or for Gardner. Well, with 27 feet, we could get around cars parked on one side of the street. Now, if they're bunched up, you know, directly opposing one another in the same area, that might be difficult. But we could restrict parking on one side of the street if it's not already. If we run into those issues typically in a neighborhood, then that's when you typically see one side of the street marked with no parking? No. if the fire marshal has the I guess authority to do that request if the narrowness imposes a safety hazard for response time correct yes we've done that in other parts of the city I really don't foresee folks parking It's a soft shoulder. It doesn't have a curve. It's what's called a barred-edge drainage. It's got a solid, soft place where you can park. I don't think it's likely that people will park on both sides of the street and reduce the width below what an emergency response vehicle can navigate. The other issue on whether or not sprinkler, that rule over – 30 Units is already exceeded and if you added under the existing zoning that rule would also Have to be resolved. So the fact that the the units share a common wall doesn't Doesn't it's kind of neutral to that question. Okay, you know questions for the chief Okay, Chris, could I ask you about the stormwater runoff in the area? Have you all looked at that? I This is not one that I've looked at specifically, but as the development comes through, if it is a single family, it would not be subject to review requirements. There is a drainage channel that runs through there, but I'm not aware of any specific issues that have been raised out there. I just wanted to clarify with Chris. So we actually have more protections if this is built multifamily than we would if it were single family in terms of our stormwater? Yes. Single family and duplexes are exempt from storm drain requirements above that. It would go into the next level of development review. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Tom. I've actually got a question from the applicant if you'll come forward. So they mentioned the lot across the street, and I see that there's a little over a half acre there that's got the same ownership. Should we expect to see a larger rezoning coming through soon? No, sir. If you look at it on the GIS, you'll notice that almost that entire lot is floodplain except for where the house is existing. That is the primary reason you're using this home right here as opposed to the lot across the street. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Okay. We have an amended ordinance. We're at the third and final reading. What final comments do we have from the council on this? Anything? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Okay. That passes five to three. All right. Thank you all. All right. Moving on to the next item. Number two, an ordinance to amend 161.2 of district R and residential office 161.21 district C, one neighborhood commercial. 161.23, District C2, Thoroughfare Commercial. 161.25, District C3, Central Commercial. And 166.24, Non-Residential Design Standards of the Federal Unified Development Code to provide a form-based development option for districts R0, C1, C2, and C3. This was left on the third reading. And I guess table to this meeting. Kit, do you have anything you want to add to that? Yes, I do. The, obviously the City Council Ordinance Review Committee met. We looked at only section 10. The first nine sections are totally everybody in agreement with. These are a good thing. I asked for a little bit of time to work on Section 10. Unfortunately, with everything going on in the legislature, I haven't had much time to work on Section 10. So tonight I would request simply that this ordinance be amended to remove Section 10 at this point in time. I will come back with that and other potential changes to the Unified Development Code regarding religious institutions and other public institutions. But tonight I think we might as well go ahead and pass the nine sections that everybody is in complete agreement with. And so I have prepared an ordinance, a three-page ordinance, because it's got nine sections, that I would ask that you amend the current one, too. Is everybody okay with that? So everybody should have those three pages in front of them. And, of course, it's exactly the same except it doesn't have Section 10. Okay. Sarah? I move that we amend the ordinance to remove Section 10. Okay. Kyle? Okay. I'm a little concerned about moving forward without the applicability section. That is the section where we apply the design standards to development that's administratively approved. Well, the applicability section is in there right now, as is the purpose section. It's just that there were some changes sought in that section. So the change in the original section ordinance brought by the planning committee or recommended by the Planning Commission included the applicability section so that they would apply to the development that's administratively approved. I'm concerned that if we take that out, that we're leaving that process open to development that's now potentially close to the street without design standards for the duration of time that it takes us to get in place whatever other changes we need. And that... That bothers me a bit, so I would prefer that we pass the entire ordinance as it came from Planning Commission and then re-amend the applicability section later in a separate ordinance. And that was my understanding of what we had discussed at ordinance review, that we would separate the issues. There's a critical part of the applicability section. Applicability section that's being being changed here that I think needs to stay or else we should hold the entire The entire thing until we're ready to do that It's the current I mean, if we don't – if we pass the parts that we're asking – a kid's asking us to pass, does it not cover until that point that we can add that in? Or how do we – like, I'm just saying, like, whatever exists does not work until we can add that in or no? Well, I'll refer to Garner on that. I thought that the non-residential design sense would apply to all of the other nine sections that are being passed, even without a specific change in the applicability section. Okay. but if that's not correct and correct I'm not sure if City Council retains the applicability section that existed and was recommended that existed in the ordinance before plenty Commission recommended changes if if you retain that applicability section The design standards will apply if the applicant chooses to go a form-based version. They have two tracks in these districts. They will apply. But if you take the whole paragraph out, then I think that is a problem. I guess what I could... Number one, I hope it's going to be coming back pretty quickly But I think that you all can you've heard a little legislative history here And it's a legislative intent of the City Council is that all of these nine sections would have these design standards applied to them Even without changing the purpose and activity sections and I'm sure that's the way planning will apply that during dependency of when we're going to come back with with potential other changes and That is that the consensus that you do want them to apply to all the other nine sections If so council knows the impact of not applying them if you build if you allow the zero setback A building moves to the sidewalk can be a very good thing if it's done correctly But it could also create a blank wall. So we do need design standards to guide that Yeah, thank you mayor I appreciate the explanations, and I think Kyle's point is well taken. I wasn't sure, Kit, that I understood what you just said. Did I hear you correctly that if we indicated verbally as a group that the design standards were supposed to apply, then the legislation was unnecessary for the time being? Just for the after bill section that you did, would, let's do it like this, you know, if you want to go ahead and pass them initially, that's fine. I'll come back later with my suggested amendments to them. So if you want to pass it as it's already before you, that'd be fine. I guess that would certainly be my preference. It gives me a little bit of pause to have verbal legislation, even if we do have genuine intention to come back quickly. Okay. So we pass everything like it is, but then we come back and discuss the religious institutions? Yes, I will be, when I find a little time, Mayor, I will be looking at those two sections plus other sections of the Unified Development Code to try to make sure that we're following the Constitution. Okay. Chair? MS. Well, in reading the original Section 10, it is listed in Section 10 that that is the section that repeals the subsection on applicability. So therefore by striking Section 10, we're striking the repeal of applicability. So I believe that it would still hold. No? MR. Well, it's probably – I think it's probably better. to go ahead and just pass it as is and i will come back as soon as possible with the amendments that i think are need to be made okay then i will uh withdraw my motion all right we have uh we'll just add that i i think the city attorney made a persuasive argument at our ordinance review committee that um But there are problems with the applicability the way it is, and I look forward to addressing those. And I hope that when we both find time that we can work on that together to bring forward a way that addresses religious institutions throughout our entire zoning code in a more suitable way. So thank you. Okay. Teresa. Teresa. Well, I'm really uncomfortable with passing something that we're actually going to amend in the near future. I mean, what is the reason why we have to get this done tonight? I mean, I have not heard a compelling reason to go ahead and move forward on this. So I would be in favor of waiting until we have a revision from Kit that is a complete package. Is there a compelling reason that I'm missing anything? Sorry. Thank you, Mayor. I think the argument that came forward was part of our lean government efforts to kind of streamline some of the processes, but the concerns about our religious institutions Or problems that were broken before this change and this is this change is not is not causing that that problem So I think we can go ahead and pass this without making that situation any worse That was kind of the rationale that we had an ordinance review behind Changing coming back with a second one was that it's it's really a separate problem We're trying to address not one that is tied to the end the kind of germane interests of this of this ordinance. I I can also assure the city council that if these are attempted to be applied to a religious institution, the city attorney's office will be saying they're not supposed to be applied, regardless of what your ordinance might say, because we're basing ours on the United States Constitution as well as federal law. So either way, we're not going to – my office anyway would be opposing them to be applied to religious institutional buildings. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. I think I'll explain really well what happened at the ordinance review committee meeting and I would go a step further to say that It is important because of the way we're administering things now that we take up the issue of applicability Pretty major changes suggested by the city attorney as a separate discussion because they apply all over the city Not just to these particular zoning designations whenever we make that change and I would also go a little bit further to say that I AT LEAST BASED ON MY RECOLLECTION OF THE COMMITTEE'S DISCUSSION, THAT ISSUE HAS NOT YET BEEN SETTLED AND WE DON'T HAVE A CONSENSUS YET. WE DO HAVE VERY STRONG ARGUMENTS FROM OUR OWN CITY ATTORNEY, BUT WE ALSO ASKED FOR THE INVENTORY OF PRECEDENTS FROM OTHER COMMUNITIES THAT DO APPLY DESIGN STANDARDS AND HAVE CHOSEN TO APPLY DESIGN STANDARDS IN THE MANNER THAT WE INTEND TO. WE ALSO HAD A PRETTY FRANK DISCUSSION THAT SOME OF OUR DESIGN STANDARDS SHOULD BE REVISITED PERHAPS EVEN SUBSTANTIALLY TO ADDRESS SOME OF THE COMPELLING ARGUMENTS THAT OUR ATTORNEY RAISED. I DID WANT TO DIRECTLY ANSWER COUNCILMEMBER TURK'S QUESTION ABOUT IF THERE'S A COMPELLING REASON TO DO THIS TODAY. I THINK THERE IS AND I FEEL STRONGLY THAT THERE IS. THAT'S BECAUSE, WELL, TWO THINGS. FIRST OFF, THERE'S NO THREAT HERE. AND I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S A COMPELLING REASON YET TO WAIT. THERE'S NO THREAT BECAUSE THIS IS ENTIRELY AN OPTIONAL PERMITTING TRACK. FOR A DEVELOPER, IF A DEVELOPER HAS A PIECE OF PROPERTY IN ONE OF THESE ZONES TODAY AND THEY WISH TO DEVELOP SOMETHING, THEY DO NOT HAVE THE OPTION, UNLESS THEY'RE GOING TO PURSUE A REZONING, WHICH IS A MINIMUM OF 60 DAYS AND TYPICALLY 90 DAYS TO BUILD IN A BETTER FORMAT. THEY'RE ALMOST FORCED INTO A STRIP MALL OR INTO A BIG BOX FORMAT IF THEY HAVE ONE OF THESE ZONES, IF THEY HAVE INVESTORS OR PARTNERS WHO ARE TIME SENSITIVE AND ARE ORDERING THEM TO PROCEED QUICKLY. once this legislation passes uh when our planning department suggests to them that they might try a different site plan now they have an option to try a different site plan without going through that rezoning procedure potentially uh well frankly puts them on an on an even playing field to do development a better way without having to pursue the rezoning and it's in my opinion critical um absolutely critical for for the long-term health of the city's corridors, that they have this option as soon as possible. We see developments come through, development proposals come through the door every day that we had no idea were being worked on until they walk in the door. And once they come in the door, the laws that they submit the application under, the laws that apply to them for the permit. And as soon as that application walks in, if that project is executed, that condition is set. IN LITERAL CONCRETE AND STEEL FOR SOMETHING ON THE ORDER OF 30 TO 50 YEARS. AND YOU ONLY HAVE TO DRIVE UP NORTH COLLEGE AND LOOK AT KEY INTERSECTIONS LIKE TOWNSHIP AND NORTH COLLEGE TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS WHEN APPLICATIONS WALK IN BEFORE WE HAVE THE RULES And so this is one way that it doesn't force anybody to do something. In my view, maybe it should go a little bit farther, but it's a good middle ground. But it does allow people the option to pursue better development patterns without having to get a rezoning, which often convinces development outfits that they shouldn't even try to do something better. Okay. So let me get this straight here. So we're talking about passing everything tonight. And that the city attorney will work with someone to address the religious... Well, the Ordinance Review Committee, Mayor. Well, okay. Whatever. I just need to know who's going to be talking to who after we do this. So we will look at this again with what you will consider your revisions to religious institutions later. That's correct, Mayor. And if a religious institution comes in, then you will step in between and give your opinion on whether it's... My advice will be clear, Mayor. Yes, I know. I don't have a vote. I got that, but you will have an opinion, correct? Yeah, that's correct. All right. All right. Is everybody clear on everything? Yes, Gardner, do you have something? It's a little late in the game, but I wanted to make sure everybody understands that this change that the planning commissioners recommended doesn't create a the problem of whether or not the design standards can be appropriately applied to religious institution or county or city buildings. That was in the ordinance. This change doesn't create that. This change is a minor change that allows an applicant to choose the form-based track in four districts. The design standards and whether they're applied to religious institutions or county or cities I totally agree with the city attorney we need to take a look at that Because I think they are problematic but this change the Planning Commission recommended doesn't create that problem That's not what simply just brought it to my attention The other design standards had been attempted to be applied to religious institutions And I had objected to that and they were not but then these came in and I did not notice that they were so All-encompassing that would in fact include religious institutions, and that's what caused me concern. Okay, I Well, I don't believe we've taken any public comment. Would anybody like to weigh in on this one? Okay. Come on, Peter. Mayor Jordan? Yes. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I started speaking on this once before. My objection is... I have a question and objection. The question is, as I understand it, there is going to be an incentive for developers to take the fast track with the form-based zoning and avoid delay by proceeding under the existing policies for RO and C123. I believe that would be correct. Is that right? That is correct. All right. That is correct. And that's why I object to it. I'd like to finish my little... Show and tell that I was doing last time and I got interrupted, but this is that piece of property that's catty corner from the botanical gardens. They were two years ago. They changed the designation from our road NSG and the battle was in part over form based zoning. And this is a proposal for a veterinary office under a form-based zoning regime. And I understand it's pending or was recently and that the veterinarian had to take it before the Board of Adjustment. But the point I was making is that if you situate the building this way, pushed out to the corner where I say it doesn't belong because there's no other building along the street. from the Springdale border all the way down to the commercial node at Joyce. But if you took it and you reversed it and put the building back where it used to be, you would have no more carbon dioxide, no more methane, no more nitrous oxide, no more hydrofluorocarbons. You'd have no less vehicular traffic. There'd be the same number of cars dropping off the same number of cats and the same number of dogs. I think it would be safer because that's a very dangerous intersection. I live there. And there'd be better visibility across the corner. But the thing I didn't get to mention at all is that the utility lines run along the streets because that's where they used to be planned. And I was at the planning commission meeting when this came up. And it was going to cost the developer or the veterinarian, because he's not going to eat the costs, between $400,000 and $500,000 because the utility lines are going to be under, you know, they were based on the way things were in the good old days, by my reckoning. And now they were going to put the building on top of them. Now, I think they were working on different workarounds. But it just is almost like watching the Taliban, this fanatic movement. devotion to form-based zoning and having to push buildings out to the corner everywhere citywide and that's my objection because it really there really is a carrot and a stick here and I think it's gonna put form-based zoning where it doesn't belong I've already read quotes and I could read dozens of them which I won't do that form-based zoning shouldn't be imposed on suburban neighborhoods. It's designed for urban neighborhoods, and it really can allow every neighborhood to have its own character. And so I would ask the city not to do this. RO in particular is a buffer zone kind of zoning, and it should be protected where homeowners have moved into developments Thinking that it would be that the RO areas would be built up under the old regime And I don't see any reason why they shouldn't be Um, yeah, I'd like to actually talk a couple a little bit about a couple of those points um He is correct that we're just talking about the arrangement of the buildings. And his point about the utilities is actually a good point. And the reason it's a good point is if it was left in the previous zoning, they could choose to move the building up front or stay back. So if there is an issue like utilities, that they would be able to go through this process and move the building around. without having to go for a read zone. I think that's actually kind of a benefit there. And we know that buildings, if they're pushed to the street, cause people to slow down. If you've ever been driving from one state to the other and you hit these kind of small towns, you don't pay attention to the speed limits that are posted. You pay attention to the fact that the buildings are closer and you just automatically slow down. Without any fear of, you know, the cops. It's just I know I need to be slower. So pushing the buildings to the street where possible makes sense. And then giving them the option of which way to put it actually makes sense as well. So I'll be in support of this. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Well, we're ready to vote then. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Aye. Anybody like to unfold it? No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Okay. Did you care to vote, Sarah? Yes. Okay. So that passed 62. Sorry I didn't catch you. You're gone. Yeah, that's okay. That's okay. All right. Now we're going to revisit this later on, right, Ted? That's correct, Mayor. Ordinance review. All right. Thank you all. All right, number three. An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed to the petition RZN 19-65. for approximately 2.14 acres located at 2827 West Whippoorwill Lane from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sloan. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Oh, it's on. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition to RZM 19-6524 for a proximate 2.14 acres. Located at 2827 West Whippoorwill Lane from RSF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre to RS 8, residential single-family, eight units per acre. Okay. Your Honor. I have nothing to add, Mayor. I believe the applicant is here. Is the applicant here? Would you like to speak before the council? Hello. Justin Reed with Bates & Associates, Surveying and Engineering, and I'd be happy to answer any questions that I can. Okay. What questions do we have of the applicant? Slump. You got one more up here. Oops, sorry. Hi, I'm Brad Brown with the Roth family and I'm here to answer any questions that you guys may have. I do want to say, I want to clarify something I said last time talking about the available housing around this location. I realize I was misunderstood or I misquoted. Either way, what I was talking about of the houses in the four, 500, $600,000 range, I and the immediate area surrounding is all related to new construction. As of right now, if you look on Zillow or Realtor.com, there's nothing for sale in this neighborhood, which that was never my intention to lead you guys or anybody else into that. But if you look in the surrounding areas still, there's only one other house that is visibly for sale on Zillow, and it's only a make me move, which means it's not even really on the market for 200,000. Everything else is in the 400, 500, $600,000 range. or it's a lot for 125 000 or 85 000. um what we're looking to do is trying to keep the lot cost low so we can have housing low um dividing the lots into these six lots helps us do that um the main purpose for this rezoning is to be able to get that six lots instead of four by shrinking down the street front as required. So any other questions, I'll be glad to answer. We're here for you guys, so thank you. Is there any questions for the applicant? Okay, we will take some public comment, and here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute limit unless counsel... By motion and a second, the majority of the council votes to give you more time. Then we'll determine how much time that will be. Keep your comments to the chair, which would be me. Don't engage the council member. Don't engage the applicant. Don't engage anybody in the audience. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I'll get you back on topic. And I would like to have your name. We would like to have your name and address when you come to the microphone. So who would like to be first? Somebody's got to be first. We'll keep it for hi, I'm Chris McGinnis to live 2930 East Inwood Lane. I know we've covered a lot of this, but I spoke last meeting about the uniqueness of our neighborhood versus some of the nearby adjacent neighborhoods based on traffic flow, safety, walkability. I know adjacency is not the only issue to be considered when a zoning request is made just because there is higher zoning nearby. This zoning increase is definitely, by definition, spot zoning. It's not consistent with the neighborhood or the area. Developers knew this when the zoning, when they acquired the land, they shouldn't immediately expect a change from the city council. The many more areas where it's higher density zoning is appropriate. Please don't assume because we're adjacent to Seder that we're structurally the same neighborhood. We have no sidewalks. We have beautiful wood lots with no way of even seeing around the corner, seeing all incoming vehicles while we're walking in the road. Seder has multiple access points out and into the neighborhood, including Mission, Crossover, and Star Drive. We only have Crossover. We don't have a safe back way out. Unlike most of the other neighborhoods on crossover, we're near a major intersection and we have no safe way to get out of the neighborhood to go to school, to go to work, to commute, pedestrian, cyclist, any of that. We live near one of the busiest and probably one of the most dangerous intersections. We're not here asking you for sidewalks. We're not here asking you to fix our drainage problems. Most people have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars of their own on that already. We're not asking you to build us access roads so we can get out of our neighborhood and commute, exercise, anything safely. We're not asking you to make our neighborhood easier for other people, pedestrians, cyclists. We are asking you to not increase the zoning and make all those issues worse. Our street is just adequate enough to handle our current density. It can't handle an increase. Responsible citizens look ahead and plan for the future. You guys are challenged with planning for the people who may potentially move to Fayetteville. But while you're doing that, don't lose track of the needs of the families that you have here now. Don't vote to make the situation worse and set the city up for problems in the future. Don't vote to change what makes us desirable. This is not the right place, not the right time for this zoning increase. Current zoning is not only adequate, it's more than adequate for what the builder has vaguely told the city council they planned for this property. Please stand up for the citizens that you currently have in Fayetteville and protect our wants, needs, and beliefs. Please vote no, make the current zoning on this property official. I do plan to be better informed in the future with the city house planning sessions as Mr. Mars requested. I really don't want our established neighborhoods to be turned into something that's no longer desirable. We need to find a way to incorporate us into the city. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who would be next? Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. I don't know if I forgot that word three. I spoke on this last time and then I thought about it some more. First of all, Just as background, you know, I continue to object to this feather plucking of single family homes. And I came across some more data. It's in the city's energy action plan that 50% of Fayetteville's residents live in single family homes. But this is census data that goes back to 1940. And in fact, in Arkansas, 69%. of people live in single-family homes. It says the level of single-family detached homes has remained fairly consistent during that period in the 60%. Single-family detached homes were at their highest level in 1960, making up more than two and three of the total housing inventory. People want this. I also have a builder's article where at least some builders claim that 80% of Americans would prefer to live in single-family homes. So again, there's nothing weird about wanting to be in a neighborhood of single-family homes. And quickly, Kansas, 72.4%. Louisiana, 64.1%. These are neighboring states only. Missouri, 68.8%. Oklahoma, 71.4%. And Tennessee, 67.3%. So actually, the percentage in Fayetteville is low. And I thought about that. And I imagine it's because you have, what, 30,000 students here? And we all lived in apartments as undergrads and grad students. And that may skew the numbers. But for those people who want to have single-family homes... I think they should be able to, and I think they should be able to protect their neighborhoods. I was going to speak for the other property, except I wasn't familiar with the particulars of the bill of particulars. And also, it seemed like those four people did a really good job, and I didn't want to screw up their case by taking their side. But no, I know who I am. But I really wish the city would understand. Understand these the Roths since 2010 have filed 137 land documents. They're professionals. I think they came into this property through a 1031 like kind exchange. I'm not sure. I'm just kind of winging it. But they're not ma and pa kettle, and they're not a young married couple who got into something they didn't understand. They know exactly what they're doing. And I think this is an invalid use of spot zoning. The last thing I'll say is that last time I spoke, I said if the neighbors had protective covenant, that I thought the city had the power to rezone, but no exposure. I don't believe that's entirely true. I think if the city rezoned to where... the RSF-8 was a conditional use, then the rezoning wouldn't impair the rights of the people protected by the covenant. But if you gave these Roths, these professional people, well, they're land sharks is what they are, but if you gave them a right to put an RSF-8 on property that's protected by a covenant, and they did it, then there is a civil conspiracy statute that gives liability under Arkansas law, and I think the city would have exposure. But I haven't seen proof of a covenant, and I'm not an Arkansas lawyer, and they haven't said they have a covenant. They did last time. They haven't this time. But I just wanted to clear that up. Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address this? Hi, Laura Kate, 3045 Eastonwood Lane. I have a second copy of our protected covenants and we are using it in the lawsuit we have filed against the Roth. It is active and we will be rolling forward. I am one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit. This is really a crucible moment in the moment of Fayetteville. Are we going to allow our developers to continue to pick off our neighborhoods? Are we going to band together as Fayetteville residents for established neighborhoods? Are we going to, as a city, decide to have college become what it is now? Or are we going to allow it to have the median and the trees and to get to be Fayetteville as we are? This experience has taught me that we all need to continue to have a voice in our fable government, other than voting in everything that I vote in. I'm a loyal voter. I try to pay attention to the issues in the news and to educate myself and to help rally those around us. We are requesting that you do not allow the developers to change the rules of the game. When we bought into our houses, we saw the covenants. They knew the covenants. They received it when they got the two lots. They knew that it was one lot to one house consisting of 20 lots. That's 20 houses. They are trying to increase the number. They say six. I know we all had experience in 2005 through 2010 when some developers went bust, and the words don't always fit. My past experience in West Fayetteville and Ward 4 in Salem Village, our developer left us with $42,000 in debt that the POA had to get out of. We are a Covenants. I did not want to buy into a POA after my past experience. And we are asking as neighbors together, as Fayettevillians, for y'all to protect our neighborhood, allow us to live as we are in the area that we've decided, The 0.25 house per person is not sustainable. That is a short-term win over the next 30 or 40 years. That is the long-term that we need for a Fayetteville that we want to see in 100 years or 200 years. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yeah, sure. Good evening. I really appreciate their view, and you've had some great speakers. It's really unfortunate that Fayetteville's... I don't have a cat in this fight, but this is what's going on around all of Fayetteville. They're picking off single or one or two lots, and they're sticking four or six or eight units in it, and they're calling it affordable housing. I don't even think the council knows what affordable housing is as far as their official definition of the three-bedroom with $300 or $500 or $800. My point is you can't keep letting people that have... The ability to come in and put multiple units in an established neighborhood. This is an established neighborhood, and it's really disheartening to think that their builders are coming in and picking up ones or two lots and sticking in. five, six units, and it's wrong. And I would hope that the people would realize this is a neighborhood and it shouldn't be whatever goes. I like the idea of infill, but it has to fit with what's around it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. My name is Ray Parker. My wife and I live at 2965 East Inland, and we've lived there since 2010. Okay. This is my third time to address the council on this particular matter, and I thank you for that opportunity. With our neighbors on the Inwood-Whippoorwill-Stardust Loop, we share many concerns about the proposed rezoning. We are concerned about the volume of water flowing off the hillsides and down Whippoorwill, a full 50 percent of which is caught and held by the pond at the bottom of the street, according to the city's own water study. We are concerned about where this water will go once the pond is covered and replaced by impermeable surface. We are concerned about the loss of the more than 150 trees encircling the pond and the resulting environmental impact of that. We are concerned that the developers will not be able to meet even the 25 percent minimum standard of tree retention if they proceed with their proposal to construct an alleyway with rear entrances to their homes. We are concerned that the developers suggest new building plans for this lot every time City Council meets. We are concerned that the developers declare their desires to play in the Fayetteville construction market and have fun doing that. For us, this is not play, nor is it an issue of having fun. This is an issue about our homes and our lives. We are concerned that overbuilding at the base of Whippoorwill will create a morning traffic log jam awaiting entry to an already gridlocked crossover road. We are concerned that this log jam spills onto Inwood Lane as drivers seek a speedier morning exit from the neighborhood. We are concerned that the way to the businesses at Mission and Crossover is perceived as an easy, walkable path, when clearly, with the narrow sidewalks and volume of high-speed traffic, it is anything but. We are concerned that this adds only more cars to Crossover Road, defeating notions of creating more pedestrian-friendly infill. We are concerned this rezoning opens the door to unwanted substantial neighborhood change, not the positive incremental plan change the Council desires for the city. We are concerned for the precedent this sets for the rest of our neighborhood. Like you, we are greatly concerned with the influx of new residents into Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas and their impact on home prices, traffic patterns, and city services in the future. We are also fiercely concerned with maintaining the natural beauty and character of our neighborhood and others like it that make Fayetteville so desirable and livable. We are concerned that Fayetteville, like cities such as Austin and Boulder and Fort Collins and Portland, could be loved to death. Mayor and members of the City Council, please listen to our concerns. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the Council. Yeah. Does anybody else want to speak here tonight? Okay. Let's do two more then. I just thought there was going to be seven more people coming up. I'll just skip down. My name is Bill Reagan. I live at 2668 East Huntsville Road. I just want to make a couple of points that I didn't hear from my neighbors. There are only 20 houses in the Glendale housing addition. If approved, this new rezoning will represent an 80% increase to that housing addition. That's a substantial increase, 80%. The 2030 City Plan contains a soil suitability study that indicates that whippoorwill is rated very limited for development. I quote, soil characteristics are an important determinant of land use. Soils with high water tables and poor percolative ability greatly increase the cost of the community sewer systems. These conditions can also lead to increased stormwater infiltration and stress of the capacity of the wastewater facilities. At the eastern edge of the city limits, a large mass of the most restrictive soils is located between Mission Boulevard and Crossover Road. Urban development is best suited in areas to the west and northeast where soil limitations are the least restrictive. Your own soil study indicates that you should have less urban development in this area and not more. Here's the 2030 plan if you guys want it. It's got the soil study in it. Okay. The 2030 city plan also has a quote at the very beginning that says, growth is inevitable and desirable, but destruction of community character is not. If approved this rezoning, I think it will have started a progress that will fundamentally destroy the character of our housing addition. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is John Wisdom. I live at 2825 East Inwood Lane with my wife, Michelle. One of the things that I wasn't here for the second meeting, and I missed that, but one of the things that came up when our neighbors were talking was that our neighborhood isn't even in the closest school district for elementary. So we can't walk to Vandergrift from our neighborhood. Our kids go to root school. So we are required to get in a car and drive to take our kids to school. So that is something that I just want to throw out there. I know y'all are in charge of the education part of this, but, I mean, we are adding eight homes. Multiple kids can be involved in that. And to me, that just is a fundamental problem over on that side of town. That just is not going to get easier. It's not getting better. I think our neighbors have brought a lot of very good reasons why y'all could deny this request on merit, right? We've also discovered that the builder could go through the normal procedures, lot splits and request variants to get to a number of lots he could build on. So I think the neighbors have really given y'all a good couple of reasons why you could deny it and let the builder kind of go through the lot split process and see if the houses are markable at a size that's already zoned for it. So we're asking you to deny the request based on the multiple reasons that we've shared with y'all via email, text, telephone calls, and the meetings. So we just ask you to listen to citizens, respond, and if the builder has an option, they have those available to them. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Hi, I'm Cindy Murray, and my family and I live at 1667 Stardust. And I'm going to be very brief. I kind of like to have a win-win situation. And like now, the current zoning of RSF 4 is not being utilized to its full potential. So why not stop there? And then we have a win that it matches closely to our neighborhood. And that way, and also you can meet the demands of satisfying people that are coming into Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading, so Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I have a couple questions for planning staff. The first question is about the underlying zoning standards. From a density calculation, more than two acres at four units per acre, they could, by lot area, have eight units. Am I correct in my understanding that is the minimum lot width that is preventing them from subdividing as they desire? Theoretically, they could get to eight units, but they could not get to eight units with the street frontage, no. It's the lot width. The lot width. Yes. Okay. Well, I think that's another feather in the cap of the argument that our lot widths in general in our zoning designations need to be reviewed for parcels that don't have typical Typically, parcels might have 100 feet or even 150 feet in depth, and that's how those rules were written, but this is a unique geometry. My second question is about the infrastructure that would be required. I understand that if they were just to build on the existing parcel or renovate the house, that no new infrastructure would be required. But is it the case if they were to do a… LOT SPLIT FOR SIX UNITS AS THEY DESCRIBE THAT NEW INFRASTRUCTURE SUCH AS SIDEWALKS WOULD BE REQUIRED TO BE INSTALLED. YES, SIDEWALKS WOULD BE REQUIRED. MY THIRD QUESTION. It's not so cut and dried. I noticed in the staff report that staff had written a bit about Their findings on compatibility with the existing neighborhood. I was wondering if you might elaborate on those for us today certainly, I Think I know all the council's aware of this but there's was a little bit of confusion introduced to that tonight and RSF 8 is a single-family district the permitted uses are single family the question here is how much lot area and width do the two districts require and RSF 8 has exact same permitted and conditional uses the RSF for but the lot width Is 50 feet and the square footage is 5,000 square feet so Really the unless you view building a home on 5,000 square foot to be more incompatible than 8,000 square feet I'm not sure the compatibility issue is all that sharp the other Confusion that was introduced tonight was that somehow the city might be taking a liability I'll refer that to city attorney, but I the present zoning RSF4 is more dense than the covenants. Covenants is one unit per acre. All right. Anybody else? Sir. Yes, I have a question, and I think maybe Chris Brown could possibly refresh my memory here about the drainage that comes off the hillside there is captured by the pond. Hey, Chris. Could you tell us, you spoke with us at one of our agenda sessions about the drainage that came off the hillside that was, you know, your study that was captured by the pond versus what would be maybe running out into the street if it weren't there. Tell us a little bit about that and kind of Okay, sure. Well the the area that the pond captures Is about four point six acres the total drainage area of that entire Basin as it as it exits and goes out towards Mission Boulevard Is over 300 acres. So it's a very small amount and Area that is captured versus the total area the total acreage It does provide some stormwater services both water quality and quantity Essentially because the pond has a leak in it, which allows the water surface to go down. And then when it rains, it has capacity to detain the water and release it more slowly. We figured it reduces the flow by about 50% of what it would be if the pond was not there. So it does provide some services, but it is a very small area as compared to the overall drainage system. Okay, and so Garner with with the number of houses that could be built on this what type of drainage Program would they have? Versus like if it were just one house or two houses there depends on what the developer does if they maximize the lot split possibility and they would not be required to do the water retention and If they go above the six Dwelling units that they proposed that they could do as a lot split with the street frontage Then they would be under our water retention requirements. So if they do above six, then it's okay. Thank you In looking at the drainage map So the pond is capturing water, but the stormwater runoff problem is actually, where would you say that? Is that originating on the lot or is that originating further up the hill, the source of the water that this is capturing? Right. It's coming off the hill above. So it's actually coming off the neighbor's properties and then this lot is capturing it. Right. So you could say that the stormwater services that it's provided as far as detaining water, it provides a benefit for downstream properties and not necessarily this development. Right, so that the runoff issue originates further uphill in the other neighbor's backyards. Right. Thank you. Okay. Sure. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, I have a question. I've heard a couple of times in two or three of these meetings that they said something about 150 trees would be lost. Loss of 150 trees. Can anybody address that? There are a substantial number of trees around that pond, and there are some pine trees and some oak trees. I did not count them. Has that been through an urban forester, or have they looked at it? Typically, in a rezoning request, the urban forester would not do an assessment of the zoning. But we could lose 150 trees. I can't verify that number. Okay, I'm sorry. What about the applicant? Can you estimate how many trees you're going to remove? No, sir, I don't have those numbers in front of me. Okay. All right. That's all the questions I've got. Thank you. I would like Garner to clarify at what point in our review process do we assess tree canopy? I know that we don't look at that at rezonings, but that does come further along before they're issued a permit Yes, it does and it comes right back to the same subject. I address with strong drainage if they go maximize the lot split tree They're exempted If they come in and build more houses under our normal subdivision processes, then yes, they have to. MS. Okay. So by rezoning it, we're allowing it to go through the subdivision process, which provides more protection for trees and drainage. Is that correct? MR. It may. MS. Okay. MR. It may. MS. Thank you. MR. Okay. Matthew. MR. I'VE HEARD SOME EMPHATIC ARGUMENTS, BUT A MAJORITY OF THEM HAVE NOT COMPELLED ME TO OPPOSE THIS. WE HEARD THAT THE INFRASTRUCTURE WAS REALLY DIFFERENT, BUT I THINK AFTER DEVELOPMENT IT WILL BE IMPROVED. WE HEARD A LOT ABOUT COMPATIBILITY, BUT THE ZONING THAT'S REQUESTED IS RESTRICTED TO SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTIES ONLY. So I agree with staff that the request is generally compatible, especially considering that on an aggregate basis there's a sufficient amount of land here to develop the same number of homes if the zoning was kept the same, but it's a technicality with our frontage requirements that's preventing that. Of course, I'm not speaking to the covenants, and I understand that covenants may be another layer that the developer has to navigate. What finally convinced me though wasn't those, or the last thing before that is the pond. And I asked about the pond at the very first thing. And the pond has given me maybe the most concern. the pond and the potential loss of it and the potential loss of the trees around it, but as I understand it It's a parcel right now with no Restrictions on it above and beyond what what's already there in the zoning And the covenants and that means that It could be scraped Clean without review and have a home put on it today and that that's the relative comparison I'm looking at It's a real unfortunate set of starting conditions, but I want to make sure that I'm making relative comparisons. I will say that the thing that convinced me was looking at Stardust Lane and the north side of Whippoorwill around Stardust, where the homes are... Or the lots the parcels are substantially smaller Than than other parcels on Inwood or on whippoorwill and and I suspect are of us very similar size and similar lot with to what's being proposed and to me that is I guess in so in so many ways the The smoking gun or the final mark that that convinces me that the request is compatible So I'm going to vote for it, but I wanted to say, you know, that there's something that has come up, these criticisms of density that I feel I need to comment on. I think we have these mental models that anything that is more dense than what we've got today is, you know, the beginning of turning Fayetteville into Manhattan, which is something I would just be very opposed to. And I don't think that kind of fear is realistic. When we're talking about new single-family homes and there's already enough land if this were a regularly shaped parcel to do that number of homes, that says to me that this is a very reasonable request. And when we talk about density, I think we've got to be cognizant of really what the different densities are. You know, eight units per acre of single-family homes is not the same thing as 50 units per acre of high-rises. It's nothing like it. And there aren't even commercial uses here. And modest increases in density like this are, you know, there are real social reasons to support them, reasons of equity. I mean, modest increases in density are the way the middle class competes with the wealthy on land prices. Without modest increases in density like this in in many locations in the city We're in we're forcing The the market into a situation where only the wealthy can afford to buy a piece of land and build on it And live on it and this isn't to trivialize criticisms of the development process and or who is or the motives that are in the development process. I don't intend to trivialize that at all. But I do and I am defending the facts that smaller homes may not be capital A affordable for those of us who are struggling, but they are relatively affordable for the middle class compared with larger homes that would be built without those modest increases in density and i believe very strongly that modest increases are how the middle class competes on land prices uh and i think i think um The social reasons for supporting those modest increases need to be front and center in our debate. And even though some of these decisions are hard or controversial and we have strong emotions, all of us, I think, have strong emotions or anxiety about them, I think that's a debate that the city needs to enter into with open minds because, you know, at the end of the day, we're still going to be neighbors here. AND WHETHER WE LIKE ONE ANOTHER OR NOT, JUST KIND OF LIKE FAMILY GETS STUCK WITH EACH OTHER, WE'RE ALL HERE. AND WITHOUT THESE KINDS OF MODEST INCREASES, I THINK WE'VE GOT TO ASK OURSELVES IF WE CAN REALLY PUT THESE PROBLEMS OF HOUSING AND TRANSPORTATION RELATED CLIMATE IMPACTS AND SO ON AND SO FORTH, IF WE CAN REALLY PUT THAT STUFF OUT OF SIGHT. And I don't think we can put those things out of sight. And I think modest increases like this are very much compatible with the vision that we've laid out and the plans that we've laid out. Okay. Teresa. Thank you. Well, this neighborhood has been around for a very long time. This is a well-established neighborhood. There are plenty of other places to have those modest increases that you just mentioned. I think the Highway 71B corridor is a great place to have high density and expanded or modest increases. This area, I think, should retain its compatibility. And the compatibility, in my world view, would be to not pass this rezoning ordinance. They will be able to actually have more impermeable surface than they do right now. And yes, they won't be able to, you'll have to go through some kind of review. But still, this neighborhood has been around for quite a long time. It's also the gateway to the neighborhood. And so I won't be supporting this rezoning. I think we also again need to be cognizant of climate change. Sure, they can go ahead and fill the pond in right now, but again, I believe that we really should be thinking about less impermeable surfaces and taking that in consideration. There are already water problems in that area. We do not need to do anything that will exacerbate that situation. So I will be voting against this, and I think that neighborhood integrity well-established neighborhoods should be left that way they should not be changed folks came in bought into that neighborhood knowing what the zoning was they did not anticipate the zoning would be changed and it may impact their property values most like you likely it will thank you Well, I've listened with interest both sides of this argument because there are some good arguments on both sides and there's some very invalid arguments on both sides. But it does come down right now. I do think that due to an administrative error, that's all you can say, due to an administrative error, the covenants that were associated with this neighborhood, the validity is questioned. That was an administrative error. But what we do know and what is rational is that this neighborhood was established with these covenants, and the people that live there expected a neighborhood that fit within the covenants as it was designed. Someone is taking advantage of an administrative error to come in and change the nature of the neighborhood the way I look at it. And I am not going to support someone coming in and changing the integrity and the heritage of a well-established neighborhood. And that's my number one reason. But there is a lot more that I thought about. I'm not an engineer, but I do know about... stormwater management after six years on the water sewer committee where we've done our stormwater study there is a problem with the runoff in this area and I don't care what engineering says you got to put your boots on to go walk across this property when it rains and I went down after a rain one day and looked at the property this does stop the volume it I mean it helps with the volume because it is a very permeable situation. There are trees that are all down, this drains to the south, into our stormwater system. And this helps with the velocity. If we had a lot of impermeable rooftops and concrete and pavement, This is going to send water directly into the stormwater system down there on the south end of that development, and we don't have the capacity to handle it currently. I'm sure you can say there can be an engineering magic, but I don't think that we always do engineering magic or we wouldn't have the flooding that we have across this city right now. Sorry, we haven't. The other thing is I do think that there is a real safety issue. If you look at the volume of traffic that has to come in and out of this neighborhood as it approaches the highway. I think Mr. Reagan said that this was a how many I'm going to ask you that how many percent increase. Yeah, that's what I heard. Eighty percent. Is that modest? Eighty percent does not sound modest to me. It might be modest when you're looking at the overall growth of the city, but that's not what we're looking at here when we're talking about compatibility, when we're talking about safety, and we're talking about the heritage of a neighborhood. All these other things we've talked about, trees. But anyway, we heard a lot of arguments from the neighborhood. And there was some pretty... Tough ones like, oh, this is business versus the people versus business. I don't think there's a single person on this city council that says, Takes this the business versus the people and so that's a little bit tough for someone up here to to hear because What we're looking at is a specific zoning on a specific piece of property in a specific location With the specific heritage that's associated with this and so I will be voting no on this for those specific reasons Thanks, okay Thank you mayor Yeah, this one's tough because we do hear a whole lot of neighbors here speaking against it. We don't hear any neighbors here speaking in favor of it. We get a few emails, and we have to chart a course that's right for everybody with limited and lopsided public input. And I said at the very beginning that... that I'm not sure, wasn't sure where I was going to come down on this and asked everybody for suggestions for how we deal with the broader challenges. And I appreciate those who have engaged in that conversation. And sorry, I'm the numbers guy, and so I've heard a lot of questions come up involving numbers tonight. So I've... googled a couple of things on the spot mr thomason talked about 69 percent of arkansans living in single-family homes and and quoted us some numbers from other neighboring states that are pretty similar i think it's totally normal for for folks to want a single-family home and what we're talking about here is a single-family zoning but it got me to thinking i wonder what the median home size and lot size is and turns out it's been radically increasing our 2018 new home constructions are topping out at a median house size of over 2 400 square feet in the 70s that was 1400 square feet we're quickly approaching double um you know our average lot size in arkansas is statewide so lots of rural areas is still only seven tenths of an acre so so even there we're looking at we're looking at trying to fit into a neighborhood that's substantially less dense than that with bigger homes than was normal when they were built um With that size house, it's totally normal to wonder where we're talking about affordability, and I think we had that question. I don't think anybody knows what to call affordability. There's no good industry standard. Try to find one. It's not out there. But the best math that I've been able to do through working – with the Housing Authority and talking to them about the their efforts in housing folks who most desperately need affordable housing kind of my rule of thumb is 30% income somewhere around the median the median income so our area median income here is $65,400 for a family of four that puts your your monthly payment on quite a bit higher than I would have expected, actually. Whether or not these will be affordable, I'm not sure if they will be available at that rate. But as, sorry, Theresa, you got called John earlier, and as John Latour used to tell us, EVERY BIT OF HOUSING IS AFFORDABLE FOR SOMEBODY, AND WE DON'T BUILD IT ALL FOR THE LOWEST INCOME OR NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE THIS WOULDN'T EXIST. SO I EXPECT THAT WHATEVER GETS BUILT HERE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE THIS IS GOING TO BE NICE AND GOING TO FIT IN, AND WHILE IT MAY NOT MEET OUR DEFINITION OF AFFORDABLE, IT'S GOING TO MAKE ROOM FOR SOMEBODY ELSE TO MOVE UP SO THAT SOMEBODY FURTHER DOWN THE AFFORDABILITY SPECTRUM HAS A PLACE TO MOVE IN. We hear a lot about established neighborhoods, and that's a really hard argument to ignore because we all live here in Fayetteville. We know what we love about this city. The established neighborhoods are what's beautiful and attractive, but nobody can move into one expecting it to never change. We are changing. Change is going to happen. And when we say no to... every established neighborhood, all that's left is greenfield development out on the edge of town. We would love to say that we can put it along college, but the people along college are going to object to that. We'd love to say we can put it out on Weddington. The folks on Weddington are going to object to that. And until we can figure out how to all share a little bit of the burden of growth and change, The only alternative is to shove it out on the edge where there's nobody to complain and then we complain about them driving past us Traffic on Weddington is horrible because we keep adding houses further out here If we don't build in this neighborhood, we'll probably add them out on on Huntsville Road But we won't add four or eight houses. We'll add 40 or 400 and and all of those cars are going to be going to the same place that the people who would live here would be going, except they're not just gonna be driving a block-up crossover, they're gonna be driving up two and a half miles of crossover. So I have a hard time seeing this as anything but a reasonable compromise for the problems that we're facing. From a traffic standpoint, I understand an 80% increase on Whippoorwill or Inwood. but out on crossover the latest traffic counts on that with 28 000 vehicles a day my worst estimates here using eight houses and 16 houses i think we got two acres of eight a piece if we could pack 16 on there at 10 trips a day we'd be looking at 150 new trips max added to that 28 000 that's about a half a percent increase Think that road was designed Engineered to handle it and it's gonna take it either way So we might as well give them a little lower little shorter commute time. I will probably be supporting this I'm interested in any other Conversation if you want to want to persuade me otherwise, but that's where my math stands right now Okay, so no, no, no, please. We've had public comment. I'm sorry public comments done Okay This is not tough for me. I received numerous emails and phone calls as this is my ward, Ward 1. I don't know how we can improve upon the existing natural state of the land. The trees are there, the pond that's there, the people who live there. I would trust that a single family homeowner would actually care for that land more than a developer. Those are two different intentions. One intention is to make money. One intention is to enjoy the neighborhood character as it stands. We're robbing Peter to pay Paul when we talk about a more strict tree and draining oversight if we up zone. I am in support of density and development. I am supporting small affordable homes. However, there is no guarantee that the homes will be affordable in this placement. There are no guarantees except to retain the existing development because that's what the people bought into. That's where they moved. That's where they are. That's what people wanted when they got there. This is making a square peg fit into a round hole. I'd like to see the density move to 71 business where there are existing amenities available. where we can walk to what's there. We don't have to drive. The whole idea is to not have cars. That's what I would like to see, where people want density. When I lived in Queens, New York, that's how we did it. You didn't have a car. So if you live there, you're going to have to still have a car. So the compromise is to work within the current zoning as I see it, and I'll be voting against this. Okay. Sure, Marcia. Thank you. Thank you. yeah i want to start with the issue of compatibility um first of all this is a single family district that we're proposing and it's would be between rsf4 and rmf24 which is right across the street so that's a very modest increase in density and an appropriate infill step between the two I want to talk about drainage. I actually do have quite a lot of experience designing stormwater management systems for infill development and You know the the drainage issue on this property where the water collects is not the source of the problem The source of the problem is uphill. So if you are concerned about drainage in your neighborhood I would suggest that you employ some low-impact development strategies in your own backyards to prevent the runoff of from accumulating on this line creating problems further down the street uh... in regards to walkability inside walks and this is within less than a quarter of a mile of many basic services including grocery stores banks restaurants uh... convenience stores any everything that you need is within a quarter of a mile and while the current infrastructure is lacking you know when you think about We're building homes for the future, not just for now. And these homes will be there 50 years. And hopefully we will have an opportunity to improve this and make this community more walkable. We learned a lot of lessons when we built Mission and Crossover about how we need better forms of development. In fact, that's one of the things that we... did earlier tonight was give form-based options so that we can do a better job with future development. And in order to do that, we need to put the consumer density near these nodes of commerce so that we can infill the city, take that from a strode to a real functioning place, in terms of placemaking, and that's how that gets built. You put the people there, and then the services get there, and then we have the tax base to add things like sidewalks, which by approving the rezoning request actually will require the developer to build sidewalks on this portion that they are developing, which will improve pedestrian safety in the neighborhood. You know, and in terms of transportation, this parcel borders... Cross over road, which is part of the mayor's box around the city, which is where we are supposed to be according to our 2030 city plan, concentrating population and housing density. This is where we intend to run transit lines in the future, and we need the population density to support that in order to make the that successful. I hear a lot about thinking about existing residents rather than future residents, but our existing residents, many of them are aging and need different housing types and can no longer maintain these large lots. And think about when you become a senior citizen and you would like to maybe stay in your neighborhood, but you can't. maintain your house or maybe you need to live on a single level. Or maybe your kids, because this is a family neighborhood, maybe they grow up and they want to start their families and they want to live in the same neighborhood. This gives them a gateway opportunity to stay there and build multi-generational neighborhoods. You know, if you look at what makes successful neighborhoods, having, thinking about where three generations of family could afford to live in a neighborhood and that's starter homes that's family homes and that's senior homes and this will help infill that and address those issues of equity so ultimately this is I think this is a great proposal and I will be supporting this request thank you yes boy this is something I have I have gone back and forth in my mind on this issue and I I I'm leaning one way, I'm leaning another way, and the things that I see that are positive about this have all been discussed in great detail by other council members. But to hit on what Ms. Marsh just said about three generations of one family being able to live in a neighborhood, that's a possibility here. Also, our population is aging, and if you want to phase out of your larger home that you live in but you still want to stay in the neighborhood, there's not a lot of options for you. If you don't have children, you know, this is not just a child neighborhood. It's not just a family neighborhood. It's a neighborhood for people that are retired. It's an existing neighborhood for people who are retired. And if this is rezoned, it will continue to be a multigenerational neighborhood. I believe that. Okay. Don't think this is spot zoning. That was something that came up quite a lot I just don't see that because of what the zoning is around the area Stardust Lane is sound is it 24 units per acre? Yeah, and Then you have all the zoning on setter and everything I don't quite see that as being spot zoning because of the proximity of higher density zoning nearby the things that concern me though is the even if it's a small amount it concerns me the drainage that's going to run down even if it's running down from houses up above we all know water runs downhill but if this pond catches a little bit of it and keeps it from running out on to crossover road that is that is concern of mine here it is true it's in the mayor's box and that's where we're trying to put housing and keep people closer in as much as possible instead of having them out on the fringe of the community. And one of the things that I have mentioned before as far as the number of cars on crossover, they're not all coming from Fayetteville. They're coming from Elkins. They're coming from Baldwin. They're coming from areas where there is cheaper land where more houses are going in, and they're not generally high-density homes. They're RSF4 or maybe... maybe RSF 6 or 8. So I am not quite decided on this yet. I probably won't decide until I actually cast my vote. So thank you. Okay. Small. I'd like to thank everybody for coming out and for the kind of the long discussion. I believe almost everybody has, you know, the kind of the same concerns. We're worried about the environment. We're worried about drainage. We're worried about traffic. I don't think any of us are really worried about the developer up here or out there. So I think some of the concerns of the people in the neighborhood, the actual methods to deal with those concerns are kind of backwards. If we don't allow houses in the mayor's box, then those houses get put in Elkins, they get put in Goshen, and then they drive in. Traffic is literally number of trips times distance. And so if you increase distance, you increase traffic. That's just kind of how it works. And so while I'd rather see higher density even farther in, this is still pretty close, and it's a lot closer than Elkins or Goshen. So I think putting houses here lowers traffic rates. ON THE ISSUE OF WALKABILITY, I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ISN'T SIDEWALKS, BUT YOU CAN WALK FROM THIS TO TWO BANKS, TWO GROCERY STORES. NO, ONE BANK, TWO GROCERY STORES, TWO GEMS, MULTIPLE RESTAURANTS, AND I GUESS I'LL CONCEDE THAT YOU CAN'T WALK TO THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SINCE THEY WON'T TAKE YOU, WHICH SOUNDS LIKE AN ISSUE I WOULD LOVE ANOTHER BOARD TO LOOK AT, NOT US. So walkability is definitely possible here. When you build cities, the best way to build it is to have nodes. You don't want to build up and out. You kind of want to have something that's nice, and then you start repeating it at specific nodes. Mission and Crossover is clearly a node. I went to... I think it's walkscore.com, and this has a slightly higher walkability score than most of Fayetteville. Clearly it doesn't have what downtown is, but we're not going to get there until we start increasing the density at the places where those nodes are forming. And there's a couple of nodes outside of the city center, uptown. Mission and Crossover is definitely one. Okay. So walkability is important to all of us. I think this will help. I think people, you could have a nuclear family here and one person not have a car because they have the ability to walk to the grocery store and come back. And I have walked across Mission to Crossover. I've even taken my kids. It's not, you know, I'm from, you know, looking down from an ivory tower and being like, you can do this, and then not willing to do it myself. I have done that. I would love to keep the pond. I mean, I really would. This one, I've probably asked staff more questions than any other as a city council member about keeping that pond. Could we allow almost an apartment complex by the street and keep that pond? What can we do to keep that pond? And I don't think that's an option if the developer wants to take it down. they can do that in the current zoning, they can do it in the next zoning. That pond, as much as I hate it, is kind of a mute point. On affordability, which is pretty important, I know a lot of people mentioned that there's $500,000 houses that aren't selling. That means that we've actually reached... the carrying capacity of $500,000 houses. And so when that happens, developers see that and then they start kind of building down. Unfortunately, as they expand, they always go to the most expensive and then work their way down. The fact that there are $500,000 houses sitting, that means the developer is going to go, well, I should probably build $350,000, $300,000 houses. WHEN THOSE $300,000 HOUSES ARE BUILT, WHAT HAPPENS IS IF SOMEBODY MOVES INTO THAT AND EITHER A LEAVES THEIR $200,000 HOUSE WHICH LEAVES AN AFFORDABLE HOUSE OR B THEY JUST DON'T BUY IT. THERE'S A LOT OF HOUSES THAT ARE GETTING FLIPPED AND THERE ARE $150,000 HOUSES WHEN SOMEBODY BUYS IT THEY'RE PERFECTLY FINE, PEOPLE CAN LIVE IN THERE NOW, BUT A DEVELOPER REALIZES BECAUSE THERE'S SUCH A SCARCITY OF HOUSING Could buy that hundred fifty thousand dollar house got it and then sell it for 350 But if they could buy a new one right up front they could buy that 350 and then the 150 doesn't get rehab So that's how building more actually helps affordability It's the next house that somebody's leaving is the affordable house not the one that we're building I'll be in support of this about this breeze zone I think it's a modest increase. RMF 24 is right above it. So this is actually less than the precedence that was set to the north. So thank you. Okay. Mark. I'm not sure that I've made my point clear earlier, so I wanted to reiterate it. When I was talking about traffic and safety, it's not on crossover road. It's entering and exiting the neighborhood and the traffic within the neighborhood to get from one end of it to the other. I know there's a lot of traffic out on Crossover. I think everyone in the neighborhood knows there's a lot of traffic on Crossover. And that's exactly what the problem is with safety, is the volume of traffic on Crossover and how do you get in and out of this neighborhood if you start backing up in the neighborhood because you can't get in and out. That's the problem. So that makes it unsafe. You don't know whether to cut through. You don't know whether to go around. You're backed up. You don't know if you need to take a right or a left. Most people will be taking a right out of it and making a circle. That's the safety problem, not how many cars are on crossover. There's already a lot of cars on crossover. The other one is the pond. If you noticed in my argument, I did not mention the darn pond. It's not the pond. It's the permeable surface that slows down the water, that helps with the volume of water and the velocity. And we paid good money for a stormwater study. And I would love for people in here to take a minute and look at that. We do have areas of water running down the mountain through this neighborhood, but even worse in other areas. But why compound the problem? If you have more homes and more rooftops and more pavement, then you're not going to have a permeable landscape. area to help manage this runoff and like I say it runs directly to the south I went after the rain the other day to look at it because I wasn't sure about the volume that actually runs into that drain and it's already a capacity it will run over the road I mean there's ways to manage it by engineering I'm sure but we have a lot of water running off the top of that hill that is going through this neighborhood this is the very bottom before it gets to cross over There will be problems and if you've lived through a flood situation here and been on City Council There are areas when we have the big rain that flood that I'm sure when they were planned, no one ever imagined that they would flood. We talk about planning for the future. Well, this is all part of planning for the future. And so I wanted to make my points clear. I do think safety is a problem, and it's not the number of cars on crossover. It's the way that traffic goes through the neighborhood and comes in and out of the neighborhood. And the water is not about a pond. It's about traffic. impermeable surface that will be on an area that is very important to help manage the velocity and the volume of water that's heading to the south of this area just my point thanks hey anybody else all right before all the final comments time to vote Sandra would you please call the roll no no yes no yes No. No. Sorry. Yes. Yes. Mayor, there are four votes in favor of the ordinance, and you may vote if you choose to. I'm not going to vote. Well, then the rezoning has failed. Okay. All right. Number four. An ordinance rezoning property described rezoning petition RZN 19-6525 for approximately 2.37 acres located at 509 East 15th Street from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to I-1, heavy commercial and light industrial. Now this one failed the council at the last meeting, but Mark asked to reconsider, I think, at that meeting. So and in fact say council agreed and it was reconsidered. All right, so So so it was placed back on the agenda for tonight So we're kind of on the third reading and then we'll start again We have additional news because I know that some people on the City Council were very concerned about potential gas stations and things like that there and the applicant has submitted a bill of assurance and to not include gas station. I'll ask Garner. I think you worked with him on this, and you might want to report to the council. Well, it does two things. It prohibits underground storage, and it prohibits the use of a gas station. So both are prohibited. So I have... redrafted the ordinance to include reference to the bill of assurance that has been offered and So the first action tonight, I think should be your consideration of whether you want to amend the ordinance to Recognize the bill of assurance Okay, I'm in the ordinance to recognize the bill of assurance second I Okay, and it is to this ordinance that I have presented to you tonight with three sections on it and the last one Indicating that a copy of this ordinance along with the bill of assurance shall be recorded in the office of circuit clerk an Ex-official recorder for Washington County. So that is the amendment correct? Okay. Let's talk about that What discussion do we have on the amendment pretty straightforward? I would just like to think the owner for Working with us on this, you know consistently This is that been a challenge with the light industrial zoning is the underground fuel storage tanks and the gas stations And I hope at some point we will amend that zone to remove those by right uses so that we can extend more opportunities for light industrial zoning within our city Okay, would the applicant like to say a few words in the council? Sure. I First of all, I'd like to apologize if my previous appearances at the previous two readings seemed rather mercenary in getting this passed. I hope that you remember me as a servant leader realtor rather than – and I don't think you see many realtors speaking for their clients in front of here. I'm going to regroup here, and Mr. Stoll, could you put up the – the – the – the sewer line overlay on this on this property because the sewer line goes right through the middle of the property it cuts it in two so you really have four acres but the the east the east side on the east side of the sewer line it's about where the road is Is where the sewer line is on the east side? That's where the floodplain is that leaves you about one acre on the other side on the west side That is out of the floodplain so the the point of making that is that you have a natural buffer to where where a building can be built without a lot of buildup and cost and the most likely use of this property is going to be a small warehouse with an office or two or three warehouses with offices on it because there's a lack of inventory on that particular structure in Fayetteville. We've submitted the bill of assurances because I didn't understand what the concern was. I've tried to sell this property to prior part of this owner to Casey's company. come and go and Murphy Oil. They don't want this property. They want the one on the corner of Morningside and 15th Street because there's a stoplight that would allow them to come and get go out of it. They've turned this property down three or four times. But if your concern is that there will be underground storage tanks, It's too close to a sewer line and a floodplain. And I thoroughly, I talked less into going ahead and signing the bill of assurances so that we could move forward in making this an economic property that would be productive for small businesses. Submitted the bill of assurances. The sewer line goes through the middle of the property. And I think approving this ordinance with the adjustment satisfies two points. Envision 2050. Permit a growing, diverse economy with pathways to prosperity. And 2050 vision, I think that this gives an opportunity and a property that is very, it's going to be hard to build on. That's the bottom line, and this gives it its best opportunity to provide an economic benefit to the city of Fayetteville, and somebody's going to wind up using it. For Vision 2030, I think it's going to find that it's consistent with the traditional town form with the change of the RMF 24 policy. on the west side to I-1 because on both sides, the east side and the west side of this property, it's I-1. And it's south of 15th Street. And across the street, you've got commercial stuff going on the other side. I think it's out of place for it to be an RMF-24 at this point because it's there. The rest of the RMF-24 behind it to the south, that's all floodplain. It'll be pretty expensive to try to build into that. that but this will be uh and this is uh got flood plain on it also uh with those changes i would hope that you would uh you would make a favorable a favorable vote for the uh for the thing and thank you very much to you if you have any questions i'll be able to answer them okay thank you for your efforts on this by the way um do we have any questions for the applicant okay do we have any uh public comment on this see now i'll bring back to the council Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. So I'll get you to please call the roll. Bench. Yes. Return. Yes. Van. Yes. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number five. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Well, what public comments do we have on the amended ordinance? Okay. Bring it back to the council. We're ready to vote then, correct? All right. Any final comments from the council on the amended amendments? Yes, Mayor. Yes. I just want to own a little bit of misunderstanding on this one. Last meeting, I voted against it, mostly on the concern of underground storage tanks that might become underwater in the flood zone. And I want to thank the... for agreeing to rule out that concern. But when I look back at the map, and Garne, you had it up just a second ago, I realized that we had been looking at the entire parcels outline, but it's actually already split zoned, part of its RMF4, and the part that's mostly the floodplain that we're most concerned about is already industrial and they could have already put the tanks there. So with that in mind, I'm going to be changing my vote tonight and supporting the rezoning. Okay. Any other comments? All right. So I'm going to ask you to please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marsh? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now I can move on to B5. An ordinance to amend 166.04 requiring infrastructure improvements, developments, and city limits of the Unified Development Code to change the parkland dedication ratio for multifamily dwelling units and the fee-in-lieu formulas for single-family and multifamily dwelling units related to parkland dedications. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Sarah? So moved. Sonia? Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Senator, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And known as amend section 166.04 required infrastructure improvements, development in city limits of the Unified Development Code. to change the parkland dedication ratio for multifamily dwelling units and the fee-in-lieu formulas for single-family and multifamily dwelling units related to parkland dedications. And before we go forward, there had been some questions about duplexes and how much, you know, what they are and all that kind of stuff. So we had a meeting, myself and Connie and some others of the Parks and Rec Department and discovered that we needed one housekeeping measure. Back when we were adding some new development type areas like large scale, we always had large scale development, they had a large scale site plan, but there's also a small scale site plan and unfortunately that was not included in the applicability section of this parkland ordinance. And therefore, we felt like we should include it because if you build a couple duplexes or something on a small site, then you should probably pay parkland fees just like someone to building it on a different site. So I have created a new section one where I rewrote the applicability section primarily just to include small-scale site improvement plans. A couple other just grammatical errors or small changes in the language has no substance But I would ask that you would amend the current zoning. I mean the current ordinance to this new ordinance that I provided to you with the new section 1 and now the old section 1 is now section 2 and let me let me read what I'm asking for that and City Council an act replacing subsection I as follows I applicability the requirements of the subsection shall apply to residential lot splits subdivisions large-scale developments plan zoning districts large-scale site improvement plans and small-scale site improvement plans provided these requirements shall not apply to a lot split or subdivision that does not create more and more vacant lots on which a Residential structure could be erected pursuant to the Unified Development Code. So that would be the amendment. I would ask what you make Kyle I will make a very slow motion That we amend the ordinance to include get section 1 and to change the previous section 1 section 2 I I wasn't going to second the motion. I actually had a question for staff. Oh, okay. Well, then fire away. At what point in the – I'm not against the amendment, but I have a question about the way this is applied more generally and I'm concerned about it. And before I frame my question, I was wondering what point in the – they just picked one. What point in a large-scale site improvement plan would a parkland edit be implemented? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I parkland and loo fee be assessed be required to be paid at this time it's when their um final plot is filed okay um so so here that's what i thought and so here's where i'm going um I don't think this should be applied at this level. I think it should be applied when building permits are done, and specifically at the end of the permitting process when certificates of occupancy are issued. Paying parklander fees should be a requirement to achieve a certificate of occupancy. But as this is written today, there are a couple of problems. One, there's the possibility of double dipping, because we assess this when PLATs are filed, And then later something besides a single family home might be constructed on a parcel which had been platted and already assessed. We might charge twice if a small site improvement plan, for instance, were to go in on a parcel that had already been platted. What we have here are a couple of different processes which really aren't, which really don't exist in parallel. We decided to assess this both when parcels are created and when a development program is approved. And in some cases, for instance, single family homes and duplexes, we don't have a development permitting process. We only have building permits and platting. But with more intense multifamily, those development processes are in place, even though all of the land that they're being performed on has already been planted. ON THE OTHER HAND, IF THESE WERE ASSESSED WHEN A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY IS DUE, IT WOULD BE EASIER FOR US TO TRACK AND ENFORCE BECAUSE WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO FOLLOW THIS ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS. IF SOMEBODY GOT ENTITLED AND WON AN APPLICATION AND A PERMIT TO BUILD BUT THEN THEY FAILED TO EXECUTE THE PROJECT, THEY WOULDN'T BE CHARGED UNTIL THE PROJECT WAS, UNLESS THE PROJECT WAS COMPLETED. AND I THINK BOTH OF THOSE ARE REALLY IMPORTANT POINTS TO RECONSIDER THE APPLICABILITY SECTION IN ITS ENTIRETY. I'M FINE WITH THE AMENDMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF THE CURRENT STRUCTURE, BUT I CAN'T VOTE FOR MAINTAINING THE CURRENT STRUCTURE BECAUSE OF THESE DISCREPANCIES. AND I DON'T RAISE THIS ISSUE IN ANY KIND OF A WAY THAT SAYS, YOU KNOW, THIS ORDINANCE needs to be attacked. I think this is a normal outcome when ordinances are written over time, one complaint at a time or one discovery at a time or one initiative at a time. This is the kind of thing that happens with legislation as it grows slowly. But I think there's an easy fix for us by saying we should assess these fees when certificates of occupancy are issued. Oh, and the last thing, I'm sorry, was... We often see units converted from commercial to residential or residential to commercial. And in one case we don't charge a fee and in another we do charge a fee, but then there's no credit. You know, certificate of occupancy gets around every single one of those issues in a really clean and elegant way. Well, I think you made good points, and in fact, Mr. Stoll and I were talking about that. We decided for some other reasons that not to immediately go to that. At this point in time, there are some issues. issues that we're trying to resolve that are fairly major and some some issues before the council that you will you will Hear about in the future where we're trying to resolve Some other issues about the park land fees, but I think you're absolutely correct We talked about the fact. We don't want to do it this way anymore either and whether or not we do it at the building permit level or at the certificate of occupancy, there should be another level and not these development standards. I know that through the years, We have gone back and made adjustments when maybe somebody didn't build out their plant, and so they were refunded the money. But still, we feel like that's cumbersome. And so we definitely agree with you. We think that this should be done in a different way, much closer to the occupancy or at least the building. And so we're going to bring back something to you on that. We're just not ready tonight. And I did want to at least put the small sites in there. while we're looking at a more comprehensive rewrite of that. I believe that the best practices collects this at the billing permit phase. I understand waiting for the certificate of occupancy, but that's a weak tool because when a moving van is about ready to go into a house and we haven't collected the park fee, You have some difficulties. So I think best practices is that the building permits fee? Stage and if the if the house isn't built that those those would be returned we have a process for that You know, I appreciate both that something might be being worked on And that that we might refund but there's still the issue of double dipping on parcels and just the The cumbersome nature of the process itself, this looks to me like a layer cake of workarounds. Yeah, I agree with all that. I was just pointing out that the occupancy may not be what you want to do. But we can have that discussion later. I'm not going to make a motion to change it tonight, but I am still not convinced that we don't have time to make some of these changes that I'm mentioning. And this might be a roundabout way of saying that I would personally like more time with the ordinance in a setting where we can discuss these things at a more technical level with more time without taking time away from our other business at a regular council agenda. Maybe that's an ordinance review or Parks and Recreation Advisory Board again with some of us participating or another format. I think that's a good idea. What's everyone doing? What are you thinking? Everybody okay? Dad? Sarah? Yeah, I would like to refer this to ordinance review for further study. I really agree with the intent of the ordinance, but I'm having trouble with the technicalities in it. Okay. Kyle? I would agree with that and withdraw my motion because I realize it is a bit more complicated. And I guess the one thing I'm looking at here is, Now we're talking about when we assess fees like this isn't also an option to dedicate land And I'm not sure how you assess a land dedication after after something's already built on so I'd like to talk more about all of those nuances and intricacies and and Just would change my motion to table this until Can we get an ordinance review committee in before the next city council meeting? This would cover both dedication and fees it doesn't cover just feelings it talks about the activity of the subsection So it talked about both dedication and fees if you don't Change it now then when somebody brings a small site improvement plan that we can't assess any fees and that's that's what you want then we can do that and There is a major issue that I need to try to get resolved with the developer that I will be bringing to you. And the reason I did not want to immediately change this is because this is a fairly delicate matter, and I want to be able to come bring you some sort of contract to resolve this other issue. It is much more substantial than a few minor park fees here or there. So that's why I presented the applicability section this way rather than trying to immediately change it. I would ask for not an ordinance review committee meeting, but instead giving me some time to try to work out the issue I have with this developer to see whether or not I can present something to the city council that would be acceptable for you on that issue before we go back and do anything besides just include small site plans. Okay. Mark? Okay. You talked a lot there. And I might have missed something. I don't know. We have a pending situation that we need to deal with, and that's why this is in front of us tonight. Well, the pending situation is we forgot to put in small site improvement plans. But there is another thing that is much more significant that I have been working on with an entity that I'm trying to get a resolution or at least a proposal that I can bring to the city council for your approval. And I think that changing everything else earlier is going to make that more difficult, and that's why I did not want to go to the other change immediately. I still don't understand why. It's here tonight for us to consider. Yes or no? Is there a sense of urgency here for a specific situation, or is it okay to delay it? I think that we ought to, now that we've found at least a tiny hole that we're going to—I want to plug that hole— pass the new fees that has been recommended to you, and then allow me to continue to negotiate with this other entity. And when I have been able to hopefully successfully negotiate with this entity, present a plan and contract and maybe an ordinance, in order to effectuate that contract and handle it at that point rather than trying to... I just think this would make it more difficult for me to come to a good resolution for the city. If we did pass it or if we didn't? I think I asked a yes or no question. He is such an attorney. I recommend that you pass it as amended. However, if you don't want to include small site plans, then you don't have to. However, that would mean probably we wouldn't be able to collect if somebody had a small site plan with some houses on it or duplexes on it. I don't like to see that. I'd like to have everybody play at the same rules, which is why I suggested this amendment. but i would like to see it pass with this amendment tonight and give me that's what i asked thank you that was a yes i'm sorry i got it i finally got it through here thanks okay kyle i'm sitting over here by the lawyer so i think i can translate it sounds like we're back where we were on another issue and we've discovered In trying to fix one procedural thing, we've got a small problem, a large problem, and we've even talked about needing to do an impact fee study on the whole thing anyway. It's definitely more complicated than I think we intended it to be. Well, this other problem actually had already been there. I've been working on that for a while. before we notice small site plan that's a pretty small problem I'm not really too concerned about that one right the other this other one is a little bit more see okay so there's there's a large problem needs a large solution we have a small problem we could fix now and then the whole way we handle it can be changed later it I guess I'm wondering is there a reason why we can't pass it Either with or without the small sites amendment. Yes, you can pass it either way. With the amendment, we would be fixing a problem where we've missed some charges. Adding the amendment, we're worried that we might double dip. But we're not going to pass the whole thing tonight. If we're not going to pass the whole thing tonight, then I guess it doesn't matter. Up to that point, it really doesn't matter. What? I'm not sure what you're suggesting. I am prepared to... I look at the entire thing as an imperfect solution anyway. And to adjust the fees the way we're collecting them, I'm okay going ahead and passing the whole thing tonight to look at the smaller problems later. They're not problems that are new. They've been there. They will still be there. So I hear you say, are you going to make the motion? I will. Okay. Which motion do you want? No, Mark. I'm going to withdraw my request to speak. I'm sorry. Tracy, you do have a turn. Thank you. It's all right. I would like to make the motion for it to add the amendment section I, section 1I, to the ordinance tonight. That's the small sites. That's the small sites. Small sites. We already have a motion on the table. Yeah. Kyle made a motion. No, I never hit the button. Then he pushed through. Oh, he never hit the button, so it doesn't really count. I'm going to withdraw your motion. I didn't withdraw. Okay. Well, then, now, Mark, are you going to make a motion? No, but I'm going to second a motion that has been made. That's for the small side amendment, correct? Yes. Yes, let's add new subsection one that does change the small I, afficability section. No, you did not. I just needed a motion to withdraw. I mean, the motion to table was either withdrawn or accepted. And it got withdrawn. And it got withdrawn. Here we are. I'm just trying to keep everybody straight. Thank you. I'm about to withdraw. Okay. Ted, what do you have in all of this? Would you like to comment? Do you have some sort of inspiring information for us on what you've heard? I don't think I have anything inspiring. I think it would be nice to fix the loophole with the small site thing so we don't have a problem with that sneaking through. You've been very patient waiting there, just to say that. He said that a lot better than I did. Yeah, it's a lot quicker. Okay. Okay. Do we have any public comment on the amendment of the small size amendment? Okay. All right. We've got a motion to second. Any other discussion on it? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Park. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. So it's on the second reading, I think. Is that correct? No. Right. So it's on the second. But you you could put it on the last if you want to. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. It's third. That's second for third reading. All right. So what discussion do we have on that? No. Yep. Matthew. Well, I'm standing by that. I think this needs more time. Well, okay. I got a vote on the motion to suspend the rules and go third and final reading. I know. He just had his name up there, and I just thought that would be polite. Okay. Song, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. And nor does the man section 166 oh for required infrastructure improvements development in city lands or the unified development code to amend subsection I applicability and to change the parkland dedication ratio for multifamily dwelling units and the fee-in-lieu formulas for single-family and multifamily dwelling units related to parkland dedications Okay, what final comments do we have Matthew? Yeah, I'm going to vote no because I've listened to the arguments and I'm supportive in support of updating the ordinance but I didn't have these deeper concerns with it. I got no problem with parkland dedications. I think they're the right thing for the city. Full stop idea that I'm against parkland dedication. But what we have here is an ordinance that should be heard the arguments for not touching the way that this is structured or enforced. In fact, I think that we must have a light touch and not a face. As it stands now, this ordinance is an incentive for people to build large apartment complexes or self-dorms. The more bedrooms you can shove into a single-family dwelling and rent out to as many people as you can, this ordinance incentivizes that because single-family gets charged differently than multi-family. This ordinance incentivizes large apartment complexes with large units, especially rent-out bedrooms, because each one of those units is counted only as a unit without regard for the number of bedrooms, the number of plumbing facilities, the number of square feet, the number of occupants. So I think this ordinance incentivizes the wrong things. I think it always has since it's been on the books. It's been way too blunt. It attempts to treat everything equally, but in fact it distorts the real estate important. Okay. Second. I've really been on the fence with this because while I do agree with the spirit of the ordinance and this is something that we do need to address, I think that the devil is in the details, so to speak, and we're really not there yet to the right ordinance to pass. I probably won't decide till we get to the vote. And if I do vote no, that's what I'm thinking is I really do want us to force us to take a more comprehensive look at this. You know, if we're really serious about building more small infill housing, I think that this is working against us in its current format. Okay. Okay. I appreciate Mr. Petty's and Ms. Marsh's points that we do need to continue to work toward incentivizing denser, more responsible development. I see this as just for now we're trying to help Kit get through this process, and so I don't see this as a final draft, but rather working toward a better solution. So I'll be voting for it. All right. Let me get my head wrapped around this. If we pass this, then that gives you the amount of time that you need to do this Well, what this actually does is increase the amount that multifamily is having to pay in relation to single family. There were – this is based on the census, and it used to be that single family would pay significantly more. Now the multifamily is paying almost as much. That's the change that this ordinance is making. Basically, that's basically all it's doing at this point in time. We will come back later, regardless of what you do tonight. You can keep the old amounts if you want to at $40,000 instead of $47,000, and you can keep the bigger difference where single-family pays more than multifamily. But if you pass it tonight... Either way, we're going to come back with a different way that you will collect it and when you collect it because I agree with Council member petty we talked about that extensively when we had our meeting and and I have Really never really liked the way it had been done in the past and now with director soul agreeing with me we are going to change that and especially since it looks like the City Council agrees with that too, so we appreciate you all thinking about that and So tonight, really what's before you is do you want to have a $40,000 value or a $47,000 value? Do you want single-family payers to pay significantly more than multifamily, or do you want to have it more narrowed like the new one does? Well, let's take a timeout here. If the majority pretty much of this council wants to have more time to discuss it, why wouldn't you just table it for a couple weeks and send it to ordinance review or something? I mean, why are we – I mean, if we're going to bring something back, it's going to be different from what we're trying to – Well, that – the reason I don't recommend that is because I am in individual negotiations with an entity about a very significant event. And that's really what needs to be resolved, if possible, before we come back. I just want to add a couple of comments. Yes. Because I think the discussion we heard at agenda session that the council's desire, true desire, is really to change the way that we do park land dedication, period. I mean, in the broadest sense. And that is it will require an impact fee study under the new legislation in order to do the things that you want to do that address things more than an individual structure versus number of bedrooms or square footage or things of that nature. In the... interim of that policy decision to make that change in collection, we as staff feel that it is important to collect the correct dollar amount and the current occupancy expectations as we have historically done so that the land or the dollars that we acquire allow us to develop the property with the adequate funding. And that is what's before you today is did our price per acre change? It changed. Did our units, our population per unit change? Those changed. The other items about when we collect the duplicate items that Council Member Petty, I think we are fully supportive of. I think... THE OTHER ITEMS YOU TALK ABOUT, ABOUT SQUARE FOOTAGE, BEDROOMS, WHAT'S INCENTIVIZING IS THE BIGGER POLICY ITEM THAT I DON'T THINK YOU COULD ACTUALLY GET DONE AND GET BACK TO THIS COUNCIL WITHOUT LOSING SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF TIME IN THE DOLLARS. that are to be collected under current development. With the volume of building permits that we issue and developments that we approve annually, you could potentially be leaving significant dollars on the table that are needed for the development and building of our park system. So I would just say to you that I think the staff heard that you really wanna change this process. And that change, I wanna be clear, is we've been advised by legal counsel that it will require a study. to take all those things into effect to develop them. I don't think it takes a study to determine when we want to collect it, which I'll let Matthew speak to those things himself in terms of the timing of it. But I just want to say that for the staff's perspective, We have land that is at a much higher value than the last time we evaluated this, and those are dollars we are not collecting today when we take money in lieu of, and it impacts our ability to construct and build out our park system. It also affects the land that we get donated. and its value because it ties directly to the acreage being given. And that's why it's important. And then lastly, I'll say you have an ordinance that requires us as staff to bring this to you in a particular timeframe, and we are at that timeframe in terms of updating that. We did do this two years ago, and we did not make a change at that time because we had not seen a significant jump in the price per acre analysis that we have seen this time. Just make sure we're adequately collecting what we should until you change the process. Okay. All right. Is there any other comments on this? All right. Let's vote. Simon, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Okay. 62. All right. Thank you all. Now let's move along to new business. Number one, in order to waive competitive bidding to accept a quote in the amount $12,830.67 plus tax from the electric motor center for the repair of four aerator mixer motors at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility kit. Whereas formal sealed bidding is not necessary for the repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote and whereas electric motor center has disassembled four air radiator mixer motors used at the Nolan wastewater treatment plant and has determined that they require repairs now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that, because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203, subsection 14, subsection EE, The repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, unquote, does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a quote of $12,830.67 plus any applicable taxes from Electric Motor Center for the repair of four aerator mixer motors used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The Nolan treatment facility does have a total of 16 aerator mixers. Over time we have been taking three or four down at a time and get them inspected for repair. The repair of these four units will bring us about halfway or three quarters of the way through our process of getting the aerators rebuilt at the Nolan plant. They were removed and shipped to Electric Motors Center in Springdale for disassembly and evaluation. And we have a quote from them for $12,836.67 to repair these four aerators. And as Kit said, we want to do a bid waiver, citing the procurement law of hidden damages. This was heard before the water, sewer, and solid waste committee on March 12th with a unanimous recommendation to take it to the full council for consideration. Do you have any answering questions? All right. Do we have any questions for Tim? I assume this went to the water and sewer committee and everything was wonderful. Yeah, it's been through the committee. It's something we have to do. Well, there you go. Unless, you know, like one of our former council members said, when you flush your toilet, you want it to work. Always. Always. You have to call the plumber and that really costs you. Anyway. All right. Any other questions for Tim? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Kyle. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Turn. Tim. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance away competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $12,830.67 plus applicable taxes. From Electric Motor Center for the repair of four aerator mixer motors at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Pudge? Yes. Park? Yes. Yes. March? Yes. Ginnin? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Rubbin? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $12,830.67 plus AFCO taxes from Electric Motor Center for the repair of four aerator mixer motors at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility. Thanks. Um... Okay, any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Coach? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding except to quote in the amount of $22,929.95 plus taxes from Electric Motor Center for the replacement of a rotating assembly and repair of a motor drive in an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment kit. Whereas, electric motor center disassembled an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant and determined that a motor drive required repair and the rotating assembly needed to be replaced. And whereas, formal conveyor bidding is not necessary for repair of quote hidden or unknown damages, unquote. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code annotated 19-11-203 subsection 14 subsection EE, the repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, unquote, does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a quote of $22,929.95 plus any applicable taxes from Electric Motor Center for the replacement of a rotating assembly and the repair of a motor in an influent pump used at the Nolan wastewater treatment facility in section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to the ordinance Tim Thank You mayor counsel the Nolan treatment facility has a total of nine Influent pumps which are the head works of the plant basically it takes all the water from the collection system and Sends it through the plant for treatment We do need all nine of those pumps, especially when wet weather events occur. We've shown that in the past that they are important. Also, these are pumps that we periodically take down and get rebuilt, get inspected to get rebuilt, which is what we've done here. And we did send this to Electric Motor Center in Springdale, and they sent us a quote for $22,929.95 for the items that Kit listed. And once again, because of the head to none known damages procurement law, we are asking for a bid waiver on this. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Oh, it still he was taken to the water circuit on March the 12th with unanimous decision to send it to the council Bring back to the council Sarah, I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading I'd like to second that motion. We have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinney? Yes. Kinney? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. And Norton, it's the way of competitive bidding. I accept a quote in the amount of $22,929.95 plus applicable taxes from Electric Motor Center for the replacement of a rotating assembly and the repair of a motor drive in an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. And so... I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $22,929.95 plus applicable taxes from Electric Motor Center for the replacement of a rotating assembly and repair of a motor drive in an influent pump used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from the council? Sonja. Okay. Any final comments? All right. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Thanks. Yes. Yes. Yes. Smith. Yes. Ramirez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Strachan. Yes. All right, thank you. All number three, an ordinance to amend 51.136C monthly standby fire protection service rates so that rates are based on the smaller of the incoming water line size for the backflow preventer and to provide for biannual rate reviews instead of automatic annual rate increases. Kipp. Whereas section 51.136C of the Fable City Code currently sets rates for monthly standby fire protection service charges based on the size of the water line entering the building, and whereas the actual amount of water delivered by a fire protection system is limited by the smallest line size in the supply, which often may be the backflow assembly, And therefore, it is more appropriate to charge rates based on the size of the smallest line, whether it is the incoming water line or the backflow preventer. And whereas city staff recommends repealing the automatic annual 3 percent increase and replacing it with a biennial review by the Utilities Department, which shall make recommendations to the City Council regarding change of the rates – or to the rates, sorry. Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, arcs are hereby repealed Section 51.136C, Monthly Standby Fire Protection Service Charge, and enacts a new Section 51.136C as follows. Monthly Standby Fire Protection Service Charge of Section 1. Charges for unmetered service connections for standby fire protection and fire hydrants shall be based on the incoming line size or the backflow preventer size, whichever is smaller, as set forth in the following table. For line size or backflow preventer size, 1 inch inside the city, $9.75, outside the city, $11.68. For 2 inch inside the city, $10.17, outside the city, $12.10. Okay. For inside the city, 2.5 inch, $20.33. Outside the city, $23.37. And for 3 inch inside the city, $30.48. And outside the city, $35.06. We get bigger. For a 4 inch line, inside the city, $60.97. Outside the city, $70.11. For a six-inch line, $169.34 inside the city and for outside the city, $194.74. For an 8-inch water line, inside the city, $355.65, and outside the city, $409. And finally, for a 10-inch water line, inside the city, $609.68, outside the city, $701.11. Okay. Subsection 2, the Utilities Department shall review the monthly standby fire protection service charges every two years and shall make recommendations to the City Council following such review. Subsection 3, fire protection lines shall not be connected to the water system downstream from a meter. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The fire line that we're talking about are the ones that go to the business and commercial establishments that service the sprinkler systems. These lines are not metered for the fact that we do not want any gizmozery inside of a fire line that can go bad and restrict the fire flow in the case of a fire. So for that reason, we have the standby fire flow fees, which Kit had just described. Basically, for many years, the way that it was written was that the fee was determined by the size of the incoming pipe coming into the building, and what we've discovered through our own actions and also through our customers is that that's not always, you know, why am I paying for the big line when my backflow perimeter is smaller? So as you see the pictures on the screen, there's an instance there where a 6-inch line is coming in to a 2.5-inch backflow perimeter. 2.5-inch is all that that pipe is going to allow through there, so the customer should be paying the 2.5-inch standby fire fee. In the second picture, you've got a picture of an 8-inch line going into a 10-inch backflow preventer, but the line is only 8-inch, so that is what they should pay. In that case, the change in this ordinance wouldn't affect that installation right there. And when somewhere I think about 2010 when the 3% per annum went into place for the water and sewer rates, the standby fire flows were included in that table. And so they've been going up 3% a year for quite some time. We're asking to freeze those lines or freeze those... Prices. And then we will do biannual reviews of the fire line charges. And, frankly, we're outpacing our sister cities on those charges, so that's why we want to freeze the prices. You have to answer any questions. Any questions? We have Tim Connell. Tim, you mentioned... All of this was aimed at commercial sector, but earlier tonight we talked a little bit about residential sprinklers in a zoning issue. Would this also apply to residential sprinkler installations? It would in a sense. The residential sprinkler systems are kind of geared up in a different way. It still won't go through a meter, but it's a little different. There's not so much of a standby or fire protection fee. We're going to determine that in a different way. Okay. any other questions okay do we have any public comment on this say none bring it back to the council sarah move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading sonja second we have a motion and saying to go to the second reading sunday would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes And in order to amend section 51.136C, monthly standby fire protection service rates, so that rates are based on the smaller of the incoming water line size or the backflow preventer, and provide for biannual rate reviews instead of an automatic annual rate increases. I need a motion here. I'm sorry. We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Yes. Mark. I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Giddy. Yes. Giddy. Yes. Spargon. Yes. Yes. Adnornish to amend Section 51.136C, monthly standby fire protection service rates, so that rates are based on the smaller of the incoming waterline size or the backflow preventer and provide for biannual rate reviews instead of automatic annual rate increases. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Thanks. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. March? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Hedy? Yes. Svogin? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to amend 166.23 urban residential design standards of the unified development code to clarify the requirement for adequate space and screening of recycling and trash containers in new urban residential developments. Whereas section 166.23 subsection C5B of the Unified Development Code requires screening of refuse containers and dumpsters for urban residential development, but does not address the amount of space needed inside the enclosure. And whereas it has been the practice of the Recycling and Trash Collection Division to request enough space for two front-end load dumpsters. And whereas the proposed Development Code amendments are designed to ensure that urban residential developments, particularly multifamily developments, have the space necessary to provide recycling and trash services, which will help the city meet its diversion rate goals established in the Solid Waste Reduction Division and Recycling Master Plan. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 166.23C-5B, regulating screening requirements for trash containers in urban residential developments, and enact a new Section 166.23C-5B as follows. Subsection B, recycling and trash containers, adequate space and screening, shall be provided for the placement of recycling and trash containers in urban residential developments. Subsection I, urban residential developments are required to provide adequate space for both recycling and trash services for residents. The Recycling and Trash Collection Division Director may exercise discretion in approving the dimensional size of the required enclosure or dedicated space for servicing, recycling, and trash containers. Subsection C, Large, multifamily urban residential developments typically will be required to provide adequate space for the placement of two front-end load dumpsters that are easily accessible with a minimum enclosure dimension of 24 feet wide and 12 feet deep. Subsection II, recycling and trash containers, shall be screened by enclosures with materials that are complementary to the principal structure with access to the refuse containers not visible from the public right-of-way. Peter. Thank you. Mayor and Council, good evening. As you all may recall, in February of 2017, the Council adopted the city's waste reduction, diversion, and recycling master plan. That master plan had a recycling goal or a waste diversion goal of 40% by the year 2027. One of the initial implementation actions identified in the plan was to adopt building codes that require new commercial and multifamily developments to provide adequate space. for access to recycling and organics recovery. As Kit mentioned, the existing practice of the Recycling and Trash Collections Division has been to request a 12-by-24-foot-wide enclosure on new developments, but developers are not required to do that, and so this ordinance amendment would add that requirement. And the Planning Commission did discuss this on March 11th, They voted six to zero to afford this to you all. You also may recall that back in September of last year, Council passed a similar ordinance change which required the additional dumpster space for office commercial and mixed use developments. This particular amendment just relates to multifamily developments. Agenda session meeting last week, Councilmember Petty did ask me a question about any flexibility that staff has on the 12 by 24 requirement. And I would note that there is language in the ordinance that does allow the Recycling and Trash Collections Director discretion when requiring the size and space and location for that enclosure. With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Everybody good? Okay. Okay. public comment we have on this right back to the council some way we go to the next reading second Teresa I'll second that motion we have a motion second to go to the second reading yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes And ordinance amends section 166.23, urban residential design standards, under the Unified Development Code, to clarify the requirement for adequate space and screening of recycling and trash containers in new urban residential developments. And so... Sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I will second that. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Carter. Yes. Yes. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Squogan. Yes. Yes. In order to amend section 166.23, urban residential design standards of the Unified Development Code, to clarify the requirement for adequate space and screening of recycling and trash containers in new urban residential developments. Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five, a resolution to approve the 2019 Fire and Police Pay and Benefits Study Report prepared by Johansson Group and to adopt the 2019 Fire and Police Step Pay Plans. Who has that? Mayor, I'd like to invite Blair Johansson to the podium. As we share with you in the agenda session, the city has been conducting a pay plan study. The Council of 2018 had a pay plan subcommittee. At the time, the decision and recommendations that were moved forward to the full council were to separate the police and fire pay study from the merit employee pay study, and then we would start in odd years with the police and fire pay study, even years with the merit study study. So Blair Johansson of Johansson Consulting was selected, obviously, to do this study on behalf of the city. The other recommendation, there were a change in the benchmark cities that were utilized. We previously used 23 benchmark cities. That was a change made to five cities with more of a regional impact where the recruiting market was taking place and university communities. And so those cities, as we outlined on Tuesday, were – locally, Springdale, Rogers, Bentonville. College communities were Jonesboro and Lawrence, Kansas. We did identify at that time that there are some significant differences between some of these cities, meaning that that, the city of Fayetteville, the city of Springdale, Jonesboro and Lawrence are on a step pay plan and the cities of Bentonville and Rogers are on merit pay systems. And so in the study, the Johanson group addressed those items as well. We wanted to make sure that we didn't have false minimums or maximums. So where minimum ranges showed to be paid but weren't actually being hired in were adjusted as well as on the maximum side we looked at actual pay so that we could compare. The other item that the council reiterated in that committee was that we were to address total compensation. And so we were to look at the benefit structure in addition to just the pay. Our goal was to be at market at pay and hopefully exceed market or lead the market after evaluating benefits. So I'd like Blair to briefly discuss what he shared with you all on Tuesday for the public that might be watching. This first action item is just specific to the police and fire pay study. What we found, what those adjustments would be to our range grids. other findings that were highlighted as a part of the benefit study. The second item will be as it relates to the actual implementation. Assuming that you approve and accept this pay plan and the pay range grids that were recommended as a part of that plan, then the implementation will be the next agenda item. Okay. Thank you, Don. Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council, As Non mentioned, we captured information from the municipalities that he mentioned, three local, Jonesboro and the City of Lawrence. And we compared their range structures, both step structures and merit pay structures, to the 2018 structure for police and fire and calculated the variances between what they have for their minimums and maximums compared to the city's minimum and maximums for police and fire, and calculated those variances and then applied the variances to the schedule with a recommendation for approval of the new structure for 2019. In addition, we looked at the five prevalent benefits that are offered and all those benefits based on the total benefits that are offered, retirement, health, and dental plans, time off plans, the certificate pay, and longevity pay were the areas that we looked at. Based on those and a comparison of what the city offers and what's being offered in the marketplace, we are in compliance with your objective to use total rewards as a way to exceed the market so that we would be competitive on base pay and that we would exceed the market in the combination of both. We would be happy to answer any questions. Don, do you have something else? Okay. Any questions from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have? Peter Tonneson, ward 3. I dropped off a chart earlier today. I left my notes at home so I'm just going to have to move right through this. First, it seems to me that this is a flawed methodology. What you've got is five groups of people who basically in year one, year two, and then looking back, feed off one another's percentage increases. So it's almost like a tornado that's just going to feed off its own energy and build. And the reason I say that is because I do have a question here. The 4% merit increase, is that true? applied to 223 of the 238 officers, fire and police officers? Paul, do you want to answer? No, it's not applied to police officers. It's not applied to firefighters. So sworn officers, it doesn't apply to. So that's wrong. All right, it doesn't apply to sworn officers. All right, well, then that... That's still better. But the point that I'm trying to make, I think I made from this graph, is if you look at U.S. real wages for what I'm saying is instead of looking at this select group or five segments of this select group, I think the city also needs to consider the taxpayers. You have 55,000 voters out there and more taxpayers, and they really haven't had a wage wage. raise in 10 years. The average increase, and I came up with the numbers and I provided all the statistical sources that I used, but for 10 years is 2.23%. The five-year average was a little higher at 3%. The military, you know, I served, you're talking about 2%. And they get a After 20 years of active duty, they get a 50% pension, not almost 100% pension after 30 years of working at home. The GS schedule, the federal workers are only averaged about 1% for the last 10 years. And Social Security cost of living increase is 1.78%. So I have a lot of trouble justifying numbers that I'm seeing, like 6.3% or 7.2% raises for people who retire with a big pension at age 50 and they can go 35 years earning full pay and never work again. I also question because it's a guns and butter kind of issue. A couple of years ago when we went through this, there was a $3 million surplus. But Mr. Becker's memo mentioned that the city isn't as flush with funds now because it spent millions on Theater Squared. It says that right in the memo. So I think there's a guns and butter issue where the city's got to make a decision. Are we going to have artsy-fartsy time or are we going to pay the police and firemen? I don't think we can do both indefinitely. I don't know that we can sustain a 4.5% increase in sales tax revenues. This city, where I'm standing now, has the highest sales taxes of anywhere in the United States. There's no place that pays more. Tennessee is the highest statewide, Louisiana, then Arkansas, but we're the worst. And we have, I pay 0.8%. 0.4 for the police, 0.4 for the fire on a millage to support their pensions. And then we also have personal property taxes and income tax. Demographics, I don't see any need here stated. I'm not saying there is none. But in terms of recruitment or retention, that's what you do in the military. If you need people, you pay recruitment bonuses. If you can't keep them... As they get senior, you pay retention bonuses. And this is terribly expensive. Kip put out a memo last, I think that might have been in 2015, about how much this was costing. What I'm saying is that I think if you're going to make this kind of payment to workers, that the taxpayers ought to be involved in a referendum if they want to do it. And that's really why I'm here all the time. I don't believe, I believe that you should try to help the taxpayers because they work hard too. They're teachers and doctors and lawyers and engineers and plumbers. And those are the 55,000, almost 80,000 people who are out there, plus the students. And I think they should have a voice in this. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move that we approve the resolution. Okay. Kyle. Second. All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,830,000 to fund the citywide 2019 employee compensation adjustment. Okay. We had a lengthy discussion at the agenda session, and I would invite the members of the public to watch it if they do have questions. However, I want to hit some of the significant considerations that I see in that. First off, let's start and talk about the pay study. We had the pay study done for two reasons. To ensure that our sworn officers were paid market comparable rates. to retain them, so they made fair wages compared to comparable cities. That's why we had the pay plan. The pay plan essentially would cost the general fund $1.3 million in 2019. That would go to $1.8 million in 2020. Essentially, that would mean this year we would have a deficit of roughly $2 million. That is if, in fact, we continue and hit what my estimates for sales tax and other revenues were when we developed the budget. At that point in time, I estimated that sales tax would increase. 2% compared to what I felt we would end up at the end of the year. We ended up better than I had thought. Therefore, if this year, if we achieve 1.3% increase over last year, we will meet budget. That is conservative, but it's also based on what the national projections are. As we looked at what the city would have to do if we use sales tax to pay for these salary increases alone, We would have to have sales tax collections of roughly 4.5% over the next four years. We'd spend $2 million out of reserves at that point in time, but at that point we would catch up revenue and expenditures. Total impact on the budget fully would be 1.8 million dollars. That's for all the funds water and sewer Trash and recycling streets, etc. And would rise to two and a half million dollars in 2020 and The one thing I would like to discuss, we talked about where we ended up in operations last year. There was a deficit of $970,000 that's also based on capital expenditures of roughly $2.3 million. We brought up about Yater Squared. Yater Squared was a one-time economic development decision by the council. We only pay that one time. Therefore, we take it out of reserves. When we compare that to annual budget increases, those budget increases have to go over multiple year periods. So it's not really a fair comparison to say that, We don't spend it one time and that's the same as having it available over long periods of time and impacting in the future. So one-time expenditures do come out of the reserves if in fact the council believes that they are worthwhile expenditures, especially for economic development. Sales tax so far this year, as I reported, are down about 1% to budget. However, it's still early in the year. What we did do is we made a commitment at that point in time in the agenda session. The administration told the council that we're going to look at this next year, at this point in time, and in fact, if operations or revenue increases don't indicate that this is sustainable, we're going to freeze wages in 2020. That commitment was made at that point in time. However, I do want to remind the council that this pay study was engaged to make sure that our employees were paid a fair wage and a comparable wage to positions in other entities. Comparing them to the military or federal wage structure, JAS structure, that's not our competition. Our competition are other entities serving the same job. We can also talk about percentages, but percentages don't tell us what absolute values are. For example, if we have a custodian, a custodian here makes $25,000, $30,000. That custodian may make under the federal guidelines $50,000. I don't know how they compare. But when we do a lot of comparisons, it's dangerous to only compare by percentages. You have to compare by absolute values. And if we're behind the pay scale, it's going to take us more to catch up to what that market pay scale is. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul? Okay. A public comment, do we have? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Matthew. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I would just like to take the time to correct one of the comments that was made. It was suggested that Fayetteville has one of the highest tax rates around. There's some that we hear a lot. Thank you, Mark. It's suggested that Fayetteville has one of the highest tax rates around, but in fact that isn't true. In Washington County alone, and this is direct from the assessor's office, I'm looking at the website right now, In Washington County alone, the following cities have higher tax rates. Elkins, Greenland, Prairie Grove, Tawny Town, and West Fork. We are tied with Farmington, Johnson, Lincoln, and Springdale. So I just would really like that claim to be put to bed. We hear it so often. There's a real similar presentation I can make about property taxes. In any case, I move to approve the resolution. Sarah. I'll second that. Thank you all. What kind of comments do we have? Before your vote, I'd like to thank the city council for continuing the tradition that Fayetteville has had for more than a quarter century of paying slightly more than maybe the bottom basement that we'd have to pay, but getting the best people, having the people stay. You don't have to retrain people. It is known throughout the area that Fayetteville is a great place to work. And that helps to make it be a great place to live because all the citizens that are paying taxes, we're serving them. Our police are serving them. Our fire department is serving them. And it's because you all have stepped forward and continued the tradition of making sure that we get the best employees and we keep them. So I think it's very far-sighted, and I'm glad to see you're continuing to do that. Mayor, I'd like to make one other comment. I don't mean this to sound the way that it may come across to some people, but... Affordable housing also starts with wages. And when 65% of our city employees live outside the city, the goal is to not just get your housing prices down, it's to actually get your pay up so people can afford to purchase the things and live in the cities in which they'd like to do. I know that's been the philosophy that my boss keeps telling me about this as a two-sided coin that we need to work on, and that is the affordability of housing and to make sure that the jobs that we're bringing into the city, our jobs that are living wage jobs that allow our people to live in the community that they want to be a part of. I also will say that I think, I do orientation on onboarding with all new employees when they hire. And I start with a question every time. When you hear the word government, what do you hear? What do your friends say? And we have a very clear discussion about the fact that the people who have a perception of Five people standing and one people working. I'm going to tell you that's just not the case with our employees. The workload that they handle, Michelle Beachall is at home tonight because the last pay period, she worked 31 hours over an 80-hour pay period over pay. an 81, 80 hour pay period to get these types of programs and things put in place in our HR department. And I could give you tons of examples in the clerk's office, the city attorney's office, our utility bill payment areas, our workers who are out at 2 a.m. fixing leaks that are blowing water two stories high. WHEN THE MAYOR CAME INTO OFFICE, THE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, AND OUR CUSTOMER IS THE CITIZEN SATISFACTION LEVEL, WAS ABOUT AT 70% IN THE LATEST CITIZEN SURVEY POLL. And last year when the sustainability department did that as a part of our Star City rating, we were in the 90% range. That's an incredible movement. It's a leadership directive from all of the management, and it's also hiring individuals with an attitude of being public servants. And I think that when we pay them, you're investing in your single greatest asset. 80% of our budget is in labor. And if you don't take care of that, you're not going to have a very good city. So on behalf of the employees, I want to thank them. I also think that public safety, which we can talk about competing with all these other areas, but people make choices to go into careers every day. And there's a significant decline there. Currently with people wanting to go into law enforcement when they watch their peers Their family members because many people grew up in that family being shot in communities Every decision they make being questioned when they're really here to protect and serve Same thing with our firefighters. No one's asking us what the priorities are at the city when they're being robbed or their house is on fire And so taking care of those roles, I think, are extremely important. They're also 60% of our general fund labor, the significant percentage of it. All employees are important. Having competitive wages are important. And in these roles, particularly, I think it's critical in police and fire that you're entry-level paid has to be competitive because you're entering a paramilitary organization where people don't really leave and transfer between departments. They spend their 28th career in that department working towards retirement. I just I think they do an incredible job and for anyone who's been on the other side not in the public realm in the private realm or in my case when I was a council member you really see it when you're on this side the work hours and their real desire to try to please you and the citizens are we perfect no but we work hard to try to be perfect and I think these rewards of keeping us competitive in pay are critical. And I do want you to know that they appreciate the fact that you do that for our city in this longstanding history, that the council is before you and you do that, and it is recognized. So thank you. Okay, sir. Thank you. I'd just like to talk a little bit about professionalism. And, you know, the city of Fayetteville, we have very high standards and our citizens expect a very high level of service. And I want our police officers and our firefighters to be the most professional service. While we're hearing bad news from communities around the country, I don't ever want to hear that out of Fayetteville. And I think part of upholding that is treating them like professionals with good compensation, with good training, good benefits, good equipment, and good facilities. We all have an opportunity to go vote yes on the new bond issue, which will provide some new facilities for our law enforcement officers and our firefighters. So I think this is just one more way of keeping up our end of the bargain of a professional relationship so that we maintain a professional force that serves our community to the standards that we desire. Okay. Any other final comments? You know, I do want to say this, that we did this pay study, and we just didn't do this overnight. I didn't come to the decision. At the end of the day, the mayor gets to make this decision to present to you all. And I don't have all the answers, and I don't know how all the sales tax is going to come out, but I can tell you this. The best investments you can make is in the people that work for you, that serve the citizens. And the day we forget that is the day that the whole city government will fail. And we're not going to let that happen. We're not going to let that occur. We put together... because we wanted to bring everybody up to market. Now, we're not talking about paying people extra graphic wages here. We're talking about bringing people up to market through the pay plan. We had a committee that I chaired, and Matthew, you were on that committee. Sarah, you were on that committee. We discussed this for months and months and months, and it was painful at times, very painful. And we set up the market. We had I don't know how many cities at that time. Does anybody remember the amount of cities that we were? And so we reduced it down to five. Now, this is what's being paid in the region, folks. This is being competitive in the region that we live in. And I think we need to pay. the people that work for us market wages. And I'm telling you, I work with this staff every day and like the chief of staff said, they work hard. We work hard here. We earn our money. And when we came out of that, the council, now there's three new council members that you were not on that boat, but I will tell you the former council said we want to pay market after we did all this months of study. And many of you are here today. Five of you are here today. And I certainly think it's important that not only the councils of the past, but the councils of the future truly regard our staff, our police officers, our firefighters as people that are above or to another level. And if they're at another level, they need to be paid the level that they earn. So we're not asking for anything but market tonight. They've earned it, and we've invested. I think it was mentioned that we invested in Theater Square. Yes, we have. We've invested in Kessler Mountain. Now it's time to invest in the people that make it successful. Thank you. If this doesn't work out, I will make another hard decision along about January, and we will do a wage freeze or we will do a hiring freeze. But that will be a call that I will make then, and I can assure you I have that skill set to do that. But I don't believe that's going to happen. I believe that the best days of this city is ahead for us. I always have, I always will. I want to thank the staff. I want to thank the police officers, firefighters, and the staff that works for us for the work that they do. You'll be about as successful as your staff makes you. So thank you all on behalf of this administration. Son, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. What announcements do we have? Good work, y'all. Just so you can plan your routes for the weekend for that particular event also, we're excited to announce the Fayetteville continues to be recognized as a Tree City USA for the 24th consecutive year That's why that ordinance you our resolution you passed on the McGinnis important because without those policies we wouldn't be doing that and also for our increased tree planting so I an award I think our citizens are proud to have. I want to remind all of our citizens that the 2019 bond election voting started today. Early voting is at the courthouse. It is from 8 to 4.30 p.m. It is today, which is now gone, but Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, as well as Monday, and then election day is on Tuesday, April the 9th. There are six precinct locations for the election on the 9th. Those are also found on the Washington County election website. But there's Central United Methodist Church on Dixon, Covenant Church on Weddington Drive, Sang Avenue Baptist Church on Sang Avenue, Sequoia Methodist Church on Old Wire Road, Shallow Community Church on Mount Comfort Road, and Trinity Fellowship on Rolling Hills Drive, Washington. You can vote in any of those locations. You do not have to live in a particular precinct to vote in that. So if your workplace is in an area that's closer to those than where you live, feel free to vote in those. We hope all citizens were to participate in that election. Also this Saturday, Saturday, April 6th from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., the recycling and trash facility at 56. 1560 South Happy Hollow Road and Woodland Junior High will be one of our spring bulky waste cleanups. So for neighborhoods or individuals that are wanting to do some spring cleaning, it's an opportunity to use those two locations. Also at our recycling and trash facility, We will be doing paper shredding between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. So if you're done with all your prior tax stuff and you've crossed that threshold of things you need to get rid of that you'd like to have shredded as a part of this particular event, you can take those there for that shredding at that particular event. Those are my notes. Okay. Thank you. Yes, I just wanted to remind everyone that we have a Ward 1 meeting this Thursday at City Hall, Room 111, and we will have a feature for neighborhood ambassadors. So if there's something that you would like to make sure that gets mentioned about Ward 1, you can reach out to Sarah or myself or one of those neighborhood ambassadors. You can find that information on Facebook. You can search Ward 1 Public Meeting. You can go to my Facebook as well and we'll have Mayor Jordan will speak and Susan Norton will also speak regarding the report of concern. We've got some updates coming for that tool which we're really excited to reveal at that meeting and if you cannot attend it will be televised. Okay. Anything else? Great work, y'all. Good work tonight. Those of you that want to sign the resolution, I'm going to sign it as soon as we have one