Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, welcome, everyone. Welcome, everyone.
 yeah good all right the first order business we have tonight on city council meeting presentations reports and discussion items is the advertising and promotion commission appointment mark i believe you have that uh we were notified by the advertising and promotion commission that they have nominated uh to re like tim freeman to fill the open industry position
 and I move that we accept this nomination. We have a motion and a second to accept the Advertising Promotion Commission appointment of Tim Freeman. Senator, shall the motion pass? Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. The motion passed, Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Loom Loom Consent Attendant. Number one, approval of March 15th, 2016, to the council meeting of mayors. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 16-22 to Lift Truck Service Center Incorporated and authorize the purchase of a 2016 Nissan Platinum II series forklift in the amount of $44,600 million to be used by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division.
 Number three, a resolution to award bid number 16-21, Pig Trail Hardy-Davidson of Rogers, Arkansas, and authorize the purchase of a 2016 Hardy-Davidson FL-8TP motorcycle in the amount of $24,459.88 used by the police department.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with the University of Arkansas for a water main upgrade along portions of Maple Street and Oliver Avenue. Number five, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 50-50 in the Arkansas portion of the defining of names and species in the Avenue and College Avenue as a budget .
 Number six, a resolution to approve a written understanding of the Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department for the acceptance of an 80-20 Arkansas grant in the amount of $56,000 to the construction of a nation trail or a lake federal and a real-life budget adjustment.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize a contract with Sweetser Construction Incorporated in the amount of $2,537,900 for the construction of the Ruppel Road widening project from Persimmon Street to Congressional Road and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $250,000. And number eight, a resolution to approve an extension of up to three months to the contract with the Federal Chamber of Commerce for Economic Development and Self-Defense Services
 in the amount not to exceed $41,250 and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Chair? Yes. Plum? Yes. Wright? Yes. Yes. Yes. So the consent agenda is passed. Okay.
 I thought it was going to be hot all the time. Okay. All right. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to amend 72.58 off street parking facilities rules and rights M to limit the mayor's authority to assign any city owned paid parking lots or on street paid parking spaces within the entertainment district to the city.
 or the closure of city streets for the use of a permitted special event to not more than two days per year without express approval of the city council. Mayor, there was a meeting of the Ordinance Review Committee last week and discussed this and decided not to actually make any further recommendations until they could have further meetings. And they did elect Alderman Tennant as their chairman, and I'll let him tell the rest of the council members what the request of the Ordinance Review Committee was. Yes, sir.
 yeah we were given a short discussion by city staff who looks to be working on some ideas yeah and so we thought that it was good because we hadn't seen them and it was new information to us so we wanted to let that process take place and then the committee also thought that that would give us time to
 individually or other council members who obviously can bring things forward to to have their ideas as well and then give that time till our next meeting which we're in the process of working on a schedule it's likely going to be
 around a month from the last one so into this month first part of May something like that is kind of what we're looking for and I'll work with kit to send out some times and make sure everybody understands when that is I think that'll be enough time for city staff they were agreeable to that so I don't know do we need to I'd recommend you go ahead and do a motion to table now before we even read it for the third time because we might want to have it in better form when we try to read it for the third time and with the
 Meeting time likely being end of April, first part of May. When is the first meeting in May? First council meeting in May. Is that the first week or second week? It's always the first Tuesday, but I don't know when that is. I just don't know when a Tuesday falls in May. Third? It would be May the 3rd. So let's do the second meeting in May. Just to be safe, let's do the second meeting in May. No, not the 10th. That would be the 17th. 17th.
 if that's agreeable to the council i think that's that'll give us enough time and we can make sure we would do what we need to do at that point okay right now i have a motion to table till uh may the 17th 2016. we have a motion john i believe you're i second it there okay all right we have a motion in a second to table until may 17 2016. any comments on that so we shall emotion pass petty yes
 Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Luture? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Heenan? Yes. Okay, the motion has passed and so it has been tabled until May 17th. Whereas the initial Forest Hills planned zoning district was approved on June 3rd, 2008,
 And whereas Planet Hills LSD, a portion of Forest Hills PZD, was approved in April of 2012 and dedicated some undeveloped areas for tree preservation. And whereas future planned development of this area, now referred to as the flats, needs to modify the tree preservation area to allow for the development, while still preserving the best quality, most significant trees, dedicating a larger area.
 tree preservation area than the one that was reduced and by the planning of ten additional trees. Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves the vacation of a portion, 1.13 acres, of the existing tree preservation area and its modification by accepting the dedication of a nearby 1.36 acres of tree preservation
 and a planning of 10 trees all pursuant to the agreed tree preservation plan submitted by the developer and approved by the Fayval Urban Forester in accordance with items 2, 3, and 4 in the discussion section of the Urban Forester's Memo. Yes, sir.
 Good evening. I have up here, well on my screen, I'm showing the area which this is located. It's south of Weddington near the Walmart neighborhood market and it's close to Planet Fitness. When this originally, there it is, you can see it. The area we're talking about
 When they originally signed up for the TPA, they dedicated this entire green area, which you can see right here. And this is the area that they would like to vacate. They left these open areas because they thought they would be able to develop. And then when they came through with the development, they saw that there was going to be a conflict. So what they've decided to do is keep these northernmost tree preservation areas.
 then dedicate an area just to the south which is a little wider and it is a contiguous woodland so it's a benefit to the city to have a contiguous tree preservation area staff recommends approval of this Petty yes tenant yes Shotmar Latour yes Long yes Gray yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes
 That passes. An ordinance to vacate portions of a tree preservation area to facilitate development, to reserve the best quality, most significant trees, and to dedicate a larger tree preservation area. Thank you. Della? I second that motion. Now the motion is seconded to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Thank you.
 Teddy. Yes. Kennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. That passes. An ordinance to vacate portions of a tree preservation area to facilitate development, to preserve the best quality, most significant trees, and to dedicate a larger tree preservation area. I have nothing. Thank you. I was just wondering, I had a person with a property owner or had a person come in.
 Sir, they were the ones that actually recommended it. No, there you are. Are you in favor of this proposal? Yes, sir. Patrick Floyd. I'm with Morrison Shipley. Is that on? Is the mic on? I assume it's probably on. Thank you very much. You had a final comment, John? Thank you. Sir? Here's the past ordinance.
 Well, we already have, we're there. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Shall the ordinance pass? Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Chotmeyer? Yes. Latere? Yes. Long? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, the ordinance passed, Mayor. Okay. Okay.
 Number two, a resolution to express the City Council's thanks and gratitude to the Walton Family Foundation for its generous $2 million matching grant for the construction of Cato Springs Trail from the Town Branch Trail to the Regional Park.
 to approve the grant agreement and to approve a budget adjustment to recognize this $2 million grant. Mayor. Thank you, Mayor, Council, good evening. We're real excited to get going on the Cato Springs Trail. It is a 2.7 mile long trail that will extend from the Town Branch Trail along the Cato Springs Branch and connect in with the new regional park, providing a great way to get to the new regional park, tying in with the Razorback Regional Greenway and expanding our trail system.
 in the south part of town. So exciting and really grateful to the Walton Family Foundation for their support, and this is recognizing the $2 million support for the project that will be matched with city funds, 50-50. Thank you, Matt, for your work on this, and we certainly want to thank the Walton Foundation for your generous gift. What conversation questions do we have in the council? Justin.
 i just want to echo what you just said mayor that i want to thank the walton foundation for this we consistently here have the pleasure of getting ranked in the top five or top ten places on many many lists of where to live where to work
 And one of the main reasons, in my opinion, for being on that list consistently is the generosity of the Walden Foundation. They could very easily not do these things, but we benefit tremendously from this, and
 And so I'm very, very grateful as well. I just wanted to echo that. Thank you. Okay. Sarah? I just wanted to note that I will be recusing myself from this vote. This exciting new trail will pass through my property, fortunately, but I will be not voting or participating in the discussion. Okay. John? I, too, would like to express my personal thanks to the Walden Foundation for their support of this project.
 And I'd like to recognize the value of entrepreneurship. Bud and Sam and David Glass and all those beginners in what we call Walmart Stores Incorporated today had not been willing to take a risk. They had no certainty that they would succeed, but yet they did. And their success spurs on entrepreneurs all over this city, all over this region. I'm very pleased that they're sharing their success with the people of Fayetteville. Thank you. Okay.
 All right. Who in the public would like to address us on this? Now I'll bring it back to the council. All right, Della. I second. All right, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Shall the resolution pass? Kitty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Percus. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Number three, an ordinance to amend Chapter 33 of the Federal Code to renumber the sections of Article 25, Audit Committee and Internal Auditor and Reserve Sections 33.365 through 33.369 and 33.375 through 33.379 for future use and to
 Approve an amendment to the Internal Audit Division Charter reducing the number of required annual meetings from four to three to be consistent with the requirements of the City Code. Kip.
 Whereas Chapter 33 of the Fable City Code should be amended to renumber the sections of Article 25, Audit Committee and Internal Auditor, and reserve sections 33.365 through 369 and sections 33.375 through 379 for future use.
 And whereas the internal audit division charter should be amended to reduce the number of required annual meetings from four to three to be consistent with the city code, now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the numbering of the sections of Article 25, Audit Committee and Internal Auditor, of the Fayetteville City Code,
 from section 33.365 through 33.369 to section 33.370 through section 33.374 and further reserve section 33.365 through 369 and uh 3 3.375 through 3 3.379 for future use
 section two that the city council the city of pale oakland hereby approves an amendment to the internal audit charter reducing the number of annual meetings of the audit committee from four to three in order to be consistent with the city code thank you all and this is just merely to resolve the discrepancy between the charter and the code and um to resolve that and then to re to reserve um numbers for city code for future use
 Okay, do we have any questions on this council? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Matthew? May I move this to the second reading? Sarah? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Thank you.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes that passes in order to amend chapter 33 of the fable code to renumber the sections of article 25 audit committee and internal auditor and reserve section is 33 point three six five through 33 point three six nine
 33.3 75 through 33.3 79 for future use and to approve an amendment to the internal audit division charter reducing the number of required annual meetings from 4 to 3 to be consistent with the requirements of the city code second that we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And motion passed. And in order to amend chapter 33 of the Fable Code to renumber the sections of Article 25 Audit Committee and Internal Auditor and reserve sections 33.365 through 33.369 and 33.375 through 33.379 for future use.
 and to approve an amendment to the internal audit division charter, reducing the number of required annual meetings from four to three to be consistent with the requirements of the city code. Final comments from the council. Allen? We're already there. Adela? We're doing better than I expected tonight. Very well done. Okay, this is the final. Just before we vote, is there any final comments? All right, seeing none, shall the ordinance pass?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number four an ordinance to prove vacation 16-53 24 submitted by George and Associates corporate property located at the northeast corner of Drake and McConnell to vacate portions of a utility easement hit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of a utility easement are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates portions of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo,
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3.
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, the existing water line shall be cut and capped and the hydrant removed per the approved plans at the owner-developer's expense. Jeremy? Jeremy?
 Mayor, Council, this property is an undeveloped parcel located in the northeast corner of Drake Street and McConnell Avenue. It contains approximately three and a half acres. In February of this year, the Planning Commission approved a large-scale development for a new 19,500 square foot indoor climbing gym on this property, along with associated parking lot.
 This request is to vacate an existing utility easement which contains a water line. As you can notice by the conditions of approval, the existing water line is to be cut and capped and the hydrant removed as part of the approved plans at the owner and developer's expense. Staff's recommending approval of this vacation request as did the Planning Commissioner with a vote of 6-0. Comments or questions we have in the Council? That's for Jeremy. What public comment do we have on this issue? If there's none, I'll bring it back to the Council.
 which wishes the council alan motion to move with the second reading second the motion second will go to the second reading shall the motion pass petty yes in it yes shopmeyer yes yes long yes gray yes marsh yes yes the motion to suspend the rules go the second reading passed
 In order to approve DAC 16-53-24 submitted by Jorgensen & Associates, we're properly located at the northeast corner of Drake and McConnell to vacate portions of utility easement. Now, okay. What's the wishes of the council? Maybe better. Sarah, you had the floor. Maybe it's the same as the other one.
 della i assume you're all right we have a motion this mayor if i could just make a comment council members that are hitting your motion button in second without being recognized is recording a different first and second than the actual voice vote so if you could wait to hit your button until you've been recognized by the mayor to make that motion thank you just so our minutes are accurate okay we have a motion to say we go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass
 Petty. Yep. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. That passes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5324 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates for property located at the northeast corner of Drake and McConnell to vacate portions of a utility easement. Is there any final comments from the council on this? All right. Seeing none, it's under shall the ordinance pass. Petty. Yes.
 yes yes yes yes yes the ordinance passes okay number five an ordinance to approve vacation 16-53 23 submitted by crafting and toll incorporated properly located at 40 30 North College Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance do we certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a To the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk in section 3 This vacation approval is subject to the following condition any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and the required new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense Jeremy I
 This is the site of a new Whataburger restaurant located at the northeast corner of Joyce Boulevard and College Avenue. It recently opened. The property is approximately two acres. As part of the development, a utility easement was uncovered. It did not appear on the original survey. It was an agreement between Ozarks Electric, which is the electric provider in the area, and the property owner. The applicant is asking for this easement to be vacated as it encumbers the building.
 the property and staff is recommending approval as well Planning Commission voted six to zero in favor of this request okay what questions do we have from the council for chairman anything okay is there any public comment on this so now I'll bring it back to the council fancy Justin second have a motion in a second to go to the second reading shall the motion pass I need a seconder on
 Justin motion in a second to go to the second reading child emotion yes yes
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Passes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5323 submitted by Kraft and Tull, Inc. for property located at 4030 North College Avenue to vacate a portion of the utility easement. So we should, oh, Matthew. There are motion and second. We're going to do a third and final reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second. We're going to do a third and final reading.
 so the motion packs petty yes tenant yes summer yes butcher yes long yes gray yes marsh yes yes that passes an orange approved the ac 16-5323 submitted by grafton crafton toll incorporated for property located at 4030 north college avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement okay final comments from the council on this all right seeing none shall the ordinance pass
 petty yes tenant yes shot mark yes mature yes long yes ray yes marsh yes yes okay thank you all number six an ordinance to approve vacation 16-5322 submitted by craft and toll incorporated property located at 2011 west box club drive to vacate portions of access and utility easements
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of access and utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Federal Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Federal Arkansas hereby vacates portions of access and utility easements described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance be certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to following conditions. Any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Mr. Chairman. I'll give you that question.
 this is a request on foxglove drive it's three undeveloped parcels that have been approved as part of the crane volkswagen large-scale development the applicant here is proposing to vacate access and utility easements that were originally dedicated as part of the overall commercial subdivision springwoods commercial plan zoning district staff is supportive of this request from the applicant as was the planning commission with a vote of six to zero and we recommend approval the questions that we have for jeremy on this with council
 okay what public comment do we have on this issue so you're not bringing back to the council thank you second motion motion and the second to go to the second reading shall the motion pass Eddie yes
 kenneth yes shotmar yes yes long yes gray yes marsh yes yes that passes an ordinance to approve vac 16-5322 submitted by craft and toll incorporated for property located at 2011 west fox globe drive trump uh fox glove drive excuse me to vacate portions of access retail easements thank you mayor maybe we spend the rules another third reading
 Adela? We have a motion to second go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Chapmeyer? Yes. Mature? Yes. Blum? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. That passes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5322 submitted by Kraft & Tull Incorporated, the property located at 2011 Wex Foxglove Drive to vacate portions of access and utility easements. Any final comments from council on this? Yes. I'm seeing none. Shall the ordinance pass?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes number seven an ordinance to amend the definition of accessory dwelling unit and 151.01 and to amend portions of 164.19 accessory dwelling units to remove lot size requirements increase the allowed
 size from 600 square feet to 950 square feet and to make other changes. Kip. Whereas Alderman Matthew Petty worked with planning staff to make changes to section 164.19 accessory dwelling units to eliminate lot size requirements and allow these houses to increase in size,
 And whereas the Planning Commission recommended a further size increase to 950 square feet from the existing 600 square feet current limit and the recommended other changes supported by Planning staff and Alderman Petty. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section
 That the City Council and City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amend Section 161.01 definitions of the Unified Development Code by repealing the current definition of accessory dwelling unit in its entirety and enacting a replacement definition as shown below. Accessory dwelling unit, a separate complete housing unit with separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area and full bathroom facilities which is an attached or detached extension to an existing single family structure. Section 2.
 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archery are to by amend Section 16419, accessory dwelling units of the Unified Development Code in the following ways. Number one, repeal in its entirety subsection B3 and renumber the remaining subsections. Number two, repeal in its entirety subsection C and re-letter remaining subsections.
 Section 3, amend Section D1 by repealing its first sentence and enacting the following as the new subsection C1's first sentence, quote, the accessory dwelling unit shall not be greater than 950 square feet of habitable space. Section 4, repeat in its entirety subsection D2 and enact the following as subsection C2,
 Quote, subsection 2, zoning. The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all underlining zoning requirements, including but not limited to building area, bulk and area, and setbacks with the exception of density units. Five, amend subsection D7 by replacing shall with should and adding if so in front of shall be metered separately from the principal residence. Okay.
 6. Amend subsection D-8 by adding the following sentence, quote, a resident of one of the two dwelling units must provide proof of ownership if requested by the planning division.
 Subsection 7, repeal Subsection D10 in its entirety to renumber the remaining sections. 8, amend Subsection E's introductory words by repealing the current wording and replacing it as follows. Subsection D site plan requirements. Detailed site plans are required to be submitted for review with the following information.
 9. Amend subsection G, which has been re-lettered to F by repealing the second to last sentence. 10. Amend subsection H1, which has been re-lettered to G1 by repealing its last sentence. Okay. Jeremy. Okay.
 as kit mentioned alderman petty approached staff with an idea to remove the 5 000 square foot minimum requirement for an accessory dwelling unit after discussion with alderman petty and city planning staff we also recommended several other changes to the accessory dwelling unit ordinance which was adopted several years ago
 we took these changes to the February 22nd Planning Commission meeting where the item was tabled the Commission has requested staff to evaluate several of the primary elements within that ordinance including limitations on building height and size as well as other items these topics were fully discussed internally within the city planning staff and after further review we recommended certain changes and recommended against other changes
 March 14th the Planning Commission did recommend and recommend this ordinance amendment come before you all for consideration and as Mr. Williams mentioned there are several changes to summarize those we are recommend staff is recommending in favor of adding definition of accessory dwelling unit to chapter 151 in our Unified Development Code
 We are recommending removing the 5,000 square foot lot minimum so there would not be a lot limitation size limitation for an accessory dwelling unit to be located on a property.
 It would remove the requirement for a separate water and sewer connection for accessory dwelling units. This came out of several neighborhood meetings related to particularly accessory dwelling units in the historic districts of our city. We do not see really the benefit that was anticipated from separating those utility requirements and so we are also recommending removing that as well.
 fourthly removing the requirement to register accessory dwelling units annually with the planning division That has not happened consistently in order. We see a true benefit from a resident Registering their accessory dwelling unit with planning division annually and then there were several minor clarification administrative changes as mr. Williams read within the ordinance the one item that staff is not recommending is
 change to that the Planning Commission recommended is to increase the maximum square footage of accessory dwelling unit to nine hundred and fifty square feet we are recommending that it be increased from the current six hundred square feet maximum to no larger than eight hundred square feet so that would increase by 200 square feet the maximum size of an accessory dwelling unit and
 our research however that was included in your packet shows that the majority of what we find is successful successful cities that have quite a few accessory dwelling units within their city usually range from between 600 and 750 up to 800 square feet in maximum size some of them are based on the four area ratios so the size or percentage of the size of the principal structure
 but the majority of them do limit it to around 800 square feet so we felt comfortable moving up to that size we were uncomfortable going any higher simply because we're fearful of particularly in a college town which is unique someone taking advantage of that and simply creating two dwelling units on property seeing advantages of that we do have some certainly some restrictions
 property owner must live on on the site there are only two people allowed to live in accessory dwelling unit those remaining within the ordinance but we were simply we're not not supportive of moving that far ahead in terms of the size of the square feet size of the unit there are two motions on this item the motion passed to move the maximum square feet from 600 to 950 square feet with a vote of 6 to 2
 then the overall ordinance amendments move forward to the council for consideration with a vote of 8 to 0 okay so what comments do we have okay Sarah we could do a lot to help us increase the appropriate infill housing that we
 is one of our 2030 city plan goals and i also support the 900 square foot limit because i when you think about it if it were to be say a garage apartment which is kind of i think how a lot of these were conceived if you had two spaces for the primary dwelling unit and then one for the accessory dwelling unit that's a three car garage
 which minimum is going to be at least 865 square feet, and then by the time you add staircase to that, you're right at about 900 square feet. So I think from that perspective, it makes a lot of sense, just complaining. Okay. Anybody else? John. I really like the idea of giving our property owners greater flexibility, and I think this provision will do that. So uncharacteristically, I agree with Alderwoman Marsh, and I think it's a great idea.
 that we do this and remember I like freedom and I like property owners right to use their property as they see fit within a broad framework of our zoning regulations. I don't like micromanagement. So leave people free to choose and this is just another step in that direction, thank you. Anyone else? Okay, I'm gonna open it up to public comment. Who'd like to address the zonest issue? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 thank you hang on I have John on the floor okay thank you John Matthew we have a motion to go to the second reading correct Sarah I second that motion we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading shall the motion pass
 Petty. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Schaumacher. Yes. McPherson. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. The motion passes. In order to amend the definition of accessory dwelling units in section 151.01.
 to amend portions of section 164 point 1 9 accessory dwelling units to remove a lot size requirements increase the allowed size from 600 square feet to 950 square feet and make other changes I second that motion motion is second to go to the third and final read shall the motion pass
 petty yes tenant yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes motion passes an ordinance to amend the definition of accessory dwelling unit in section 151.01 and to amend portions of section 164.19 accessory dwelling units to remove lot size requirements increase the allowed size from 600 square feet to 950 square feet and make other changes
 comments Alan I'd just like to see if we could hold it here on this reading for another two weeks we have a Ward 4 meeting coming up and I'd like to address that with some of the Ward 4 constituents that live around the university if there's no hurry discussion we have on that no discussion mayor I just want to say in order to do that you'll do you do need to have a motion to table because I think we've already mentioned a third and final reading
 I'll hear a motion to table for two weeks. Oh, well, push through the button. Sorry. I'll make a motion to table for two weeks. Do I have a second? Justin? I second. We have a motion to second to table for two weeks. Any discussion on that? Okay. Shall the motion pass? Petty? No. Yes. Chotmeyer? Yes. Mature? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Okay.
 no there the vote is four to four so if you care to vote you may well motion table then failed so we're tilt back on the third and final read just wrote in with every correct yeah yeah yeah all right if I'll call this council all right
 yes yes yes yes yes yes the ordinance passed a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the federal City Council a 7d to authorize the City Council to allow a representative of the public opposing the ordinance a resolution to use an electronic visual and
 aid presentation on the issue. Allen, I believe you have this. Okay, I asked Kit to draft this. Basically, it would give city council members the same right as a staff member to present at city council meetings. In addition to that, it would also let the city council pass by a simple majority of what used to be a suspension to our rules or currently is to let a citizen speak on an issue with a visual aid presentation.
 basically person in the audience wants to speak we have to vote on that but if the City Council member wants to speak with the presentation we have the same ability of staff okay Matthew I think in principle the proposal is fine but I'd be more comfortable with it if it included time limits okay well then we
 I'll make a motion to add time limits of five minutes. You're telling me to add time limits of five minutes? Absolutely, yes. Hang on. I have a question. Are you saying a time limit for the presentation by the member of the audience in opposition or on all of the presentations? Well, it'd be for members of the audience. Okay, one second.
 five minutes i'm gonna be sure i got this right all right we have a motion a second to amend this to make for five minutes for the audience to make presentations correct did i get that right yes okay what discussion do we have on that anything mark if we uh pass this amendment then it would be my understanding that uh we could move to suspect the rules if it was necessary if we needed more information from the person presenting the presentation
 Yes, this would be a part of your Rules of Order and Procedures, which you may suspend by a two-thirds vote. So it would be a two-thirds vote. All right. Thanks. Is that good? All right. Any public comment on the amendment? Not to change the rule. Oh, Mark. Oh, sorry. Do we have any public comment on the amendment? Good evening, Mayor. I'm Kyle Smith, 2801 Westup Drive. Given that we frequently have presentations from property owners who have their own
 multimedia presentations prepared. Those frequently run more than five minutes and on occasions when you have neighborhood representatives who might want to speak in opposition to a zoning ordinance and have their presentations, I can see how it would be very hard for them to answer all of
 a property owner's concerns in that kind of time limit. It would be nice to have some expectation when they're coming forward that they're going to get maybe equal time with a supporting position. There's no, if you're gonna put a time limit on this, it'd be nice to see a time limit on that as well. Alan. If I could ask the speaker.
 Kyle, would you be okay with trying this first? Because right now members of the audience and citizens aren't allowed to give presentations at all. Would that be something you'd be open to try? It would definitely be an improvement. Perhaps the time limits could be set at the time when you approve their giving the presentations
 you have the chance then to make it commensurate with an already given supporting presentation. I'd just like to see that a little more open to equal time than a presumptive five-minute limit that has to be suspended by a fairly healthy majority there.
 Mr. Mayor, I should note that if this is adopted, it will say an electronic visual aid not to exceed five minutes. It does not say that after the electronic visual aid is over that the speaker must sit down. So the speaker could continue to speak, but their slideshow or whatever can't exceed five minutes. That's the way this rule would, if it's amended, that's what this rule would mean. Do you know how you want me to run it? I'll agree with that.
 anybody else in the public like to address this on this okay I'm gonna bring it back we'll be we have an amendment to amend for five minutes for people from the audience or presentations we have a motion in a second to pass it shall the amendment pass oh excuse me is there any final comments from the council on this
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes the amendment passed mayor okay now we're back to public comment on the amended ordinance there's any public comment on that I can see now I'll bring it back to the council and this is just a resolution that requires a simple motion in order to pass it Sarah
 I'd like to see us take this for another two weeks and have the opportunity to get some public feedback. This is going to change things here, so I'm not in any hurry to pass this tonight. Can we table it? Yeah, okay. Now what? What would the public, I guess how would we go about that? Is there more of a change to our rules of procedure? Sure.
 I just, with something that impacts the way that citizens communicate with us, I just feel like this, we've had it, we're having it and we're discussing it tonight, give the media an opportunity to report on it, and then we can take any feedback into account and hopefully improve it by next time. Okay. Mark?
 I tend to agree with that argument. I think that since it does impact the public, that we certainly need to get feedback from the public to see if they find this to be fair. And so I would agree that we wait. Okay. Al? I'm going to go with moving forward tonight. I think that any time we give the public a greater chance to speak to us, which is what we're doing tonight, that we improve the communication level.
 um if the resolution that can always be amended so that's i'm gonna probably not support the amendment tonight okay sarah i move we table it for two weeks so we have a motion at mark and i would second that motion to table the amendment we have a motion to table this item for two weeks in the discussion on that all right shall the motion pass sarah okay eddie
 yes no no no right no Marsh yes yes the motion fails okay do we have a motion in second to pass the amended resolution I'm sorry we do no I think we need one
 make a motion to pass the resolution yeah motion is second to pass the resolution shall the motion pass yes sorry hang on hang on I forgot to get public comment on the is there any comments on the amended resolution okay we'll write back to the council now continue on just continue on shot mark
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Hinton? No. The resolution is passed. Okay. That concludes our business from the evening. What announcements do we have? We have one announcement here. The ward cleanup this Saturday the 16th.
 The two locations will be Shaver Foods and the Recycling and Trash Center. The cleanup will be from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. that Saturday. This is the next to the last one. The final one will be May the 7th. So for those citizens who need to discard items at our bulky waste cleanup, we have this Saturday and May 7th. What other announcements do we have? Nothing? Okay. Well, thank you all very much. Thank you.
 isn't this how do you like the uh restoration of the city council chambers good good okay thank you all right well thank you all we're adjourned