I would like to call an order of the City Council meeting for April 3rd, 2018. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Here. Kennett. Butch. Latour. Rother. Smith. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Thank you.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 All right. Welcome, everybody. First order of business we have tonight under the Mayor's Announcements, Proclamations, Recognitions, City Council Meeting, Presentations, Reports, and Discussion Items. First thing we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the report on the month of February. So it's the second month of the fiscal period.
 As we look at where we are right now in a year-to-date basis, sales tax is up about 4.39 at this point in time. The county sales tax was a little soft in February. I hope that picks up. Springdale was up.
 was down compared to last year, but we were in the 4% range. And as I say, we're about 4.39 at this point in time in sales tax. Expenses are about roughly where I would expect them to be. Revenues are under expenditures by about $190,000 right now, but that's not unusual for early in the year.
 So, we're doing pretty good in the general fund at this point in time. The street funds up a little bit, up about 2.6% in revenue. Expenses are right about where I would estimate them to be at this time, so we're doing well there. Parking's down a little bit as far as parking revenues are concerned. That doesn't concern me at this time of the year. We should be okay there.
 Parks Development Fund HMR taxes are up roughly 6% at this point in time, so we're showing some good gains there. Water and sewers up about 1.7%, pretty flat to last year when we take into consideration the increases in rates at this point in time.
 So water and sewer is doing well at this point in time. Trash and recycling up 4.6% in revenues at this point in time. Expenditures are up a little bit primarily because of the consultant study for the rate
 for the rates that we're discussing at this point in time. Airport, their fuel sales are up 15%, which is very large for this time in the year. However, that equates to about $62,000. But we're doing well in the airport at this point in time. So all of the funds are looking pretty sound at this point in time. Revenues are up across the board generally. And, yeah.
 As of the second month, we're doing okay. I'll give you a report at the end of the first quarter, at the end of this month when we get our sales tax returns, and I can complete the month of March. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on finance report? Everybody good? All right. Number two, advertising promotion commission appointment. Long reappointment, I believe.
 Mark, you had one. Yes. The nominating committee received for consideration a nomination for the reappointment of Ching Mong to the tourism industry position for the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Committee.
 I would like to submit this for approval by the full city council. Okay, we have a motion to approve the advertisement motion appointment. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to approve the advertising commission appointment. Any comments? All right. Senators, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, moving along to the consent agenda. Is there any? Okay. Moving along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 20, 2018 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the agreement.
 for assignment of the ground lease for airport property located at 4564 South School Avenue from Flying Investments LLC to Walker Flight Services LLC. Number three, a resolution authorizing the symptoms of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics 8020 grant in the amount of $135,900 for the airport terminal parking lot rehabilitation project and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number four, a resolution of Ward bid number 18-17 to authorize a contract with Goodwin and Goodwin Incorporated any amount of $292,955 for the Densmore Trail Water Main Replacement Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $43,943.25.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 18-22 and to approve a one-year contract with Instaporn Technologies Incorporated with the option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms for as-needed rehabilitation of sanitary sewer mains and service connections using the cured-in-place pipe method. Number six...
 resolution to prove the budget adjustment in the amount of $5,000 allocating funds from the sale of city property at the northwest corner of Razorback Road and Sligo Street to the Cato Springs trail lighting project number seven a resolution expressed the wellness of the city city a federal to utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds for Razorback regional greenway full-bright expressway tunnel improvements
 Number eight a resolution to express the willingness of the city of Edel to utilize federal a transportation alternatives program funds And amount up to one hundred four thousand dollars to light trail around Gully Park nine
 A resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal utilized federal aid transportation alternatives program funds in amount up to $440,000 for lighting of the Rupert Road Trail from Persimmon Street to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $360,000 recognizing parkland dedication fees from the northeast, northwest, and southwest park quadrants to be used for a rowing dock with canoe and kayak launch area at the Lake Pebble improvements to Gregory Park and replacement of two trail bridges at Wilson Park.
 11. A resolution to approve a contract with Newberry Martin and Martin Consulting Engineers pursuant to an RFQ 18-0 run for an update of the 2005 facilities need assessment for the Federal Police Department in the amount of $19,900 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number 12, resolution to award bid number 18-18 and to approve a one-year contract with Petroleum Traders Corporation for bulk fuel purchases with the option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Second. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. We have a second. Adele. I will second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have none.
 Under new business number one. Mayor. Oh, sorry. I'm going to bring a motion to reconsider at the conclusion of our meeting. I just wanted to let you know that at this point in time. We won't slow the meeting down and do it now. I'll just wait and do it at the end of our agenda. All right, Della, let me write that down. Okay, got it. All right, you're very welcome. Thank you. Under new business number one.
 An ordinance to approve the application of Daniel on behalf of Dinosaur Senior Incorporated, DBA, Prairie Street Bar and Tap Room for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 495 West Prairie Street, number 103. Kemp.
 Whereas, Act 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas, requires the City Council to approve, quote, by ordinance an application for a permit to operate as a private club, unquote, before the applicant can submit the application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the application of Dan G. Daniel on behalf of Dinosaur Senior, Inc., doing business as Prairie Street Bar and Taproom, a copy of which is attached to the agenda request form for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 495 West Prairie Street, number 103. Okay.
 Thanks, Mayor and Council. Sorry, I can't talk tonight. As you know, this is kind of a new procedure for us. I believe this is the third one that's been brought forward since the law changed. We're still trying to find our way through this. I think we're getting closer. If you remember last time, we added a requirement that the bar employees attend some training for underage drinking and identifying false IDs and stuff. So we've left that requirement in this one.
 And this one we've added an additional requirement, which we think is the requirements that will be on all of them forthcoming unless there's an item specific to the actual location or the private club itself. And that stipulation that we've added this time is we first had some discussions about bouncers having some type of certification or training so they know how to deal with volatile situations and what the law is and what they're allowed to do and what they're not allowed to do.
 Obviously we have some very serious incidents inside of clubs at different times. I actually just read an article before I come over here where a bouncer had actually been arrested for a murder where he murdered a client was the allegation inside a bar. So obviously you can see that things can get out of hand in bars very quickly.
 I think we pretty quickly decided that that probably wasn't the best course of action because bouncers probably come and go very regularly, and it would be hard for us to keep up with that. So we came up with the idea that if the holder of the ABC permit would hold that certification as prerequisite.
 called a private security officer certification from the state, then at least that owner of that ABC permit would know what the laws are pertaining to bouncers, what they're allowed to do, what authority they have, and those types of things. So that's the stipulation that we put in this one, is that the ABC permit holder have that private security officer certification from the state. It would be also easy for us to keep up with that because any time the ABC permit holder
 switches, we get notified of that by the state and that way we'd also know the new permittee would need to get that certification. So that's what's different in this application than you've seen in the past. Try to answer any questions you have. Okay, Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I need to disclose that I'll be the landlord for this bar when it opens, so I'll be refusing from the discussion of the vote. There you go. Anybody else got any questions? Yes.
 I guess my only question, Chief, you looked over the application and everything looks satisfactory to you? That's correct. With these stipulations, we would recommend approval. I'll take some public comment. Here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You get five minutes.
 And the only way you can come back is if a council member brings you back to ask questions. And then that takes a vote of the council if they're going to give you extra time. Motion in the second in the majority of the council. They can't ask you questions. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage somebody on the council, anybody out in the public. We don't. We keep it to me. And we will address whatever questions we can.
 We need your name and address, and we would like to know who would like to be first tonight. Nobody. All right, then. I went through all those rules for you. Now we're back. All right, I'll bring it back to the council. You were here several times tonight. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? So, Chair...
 Yes. Yes. Still yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, and so Sarah if we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading part I'll second that we have motion second go to the third and final reading. So, would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes
 an ordinance to approve the application of dan g daniel on behalf of dinosaur senior incorporated doing business as prairie street bar and tap room for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of fayetteville at 495 west prairie street number 103. okay final comments from the council on this okay so under what you please call uh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you all very much. Okay, Matthew. All right, number two, a resolution to approve the vacation and abolishment of the .67 acre tree preservation easement dedicated as part of the large-scale development for the construction of the J.D. China Restaurant on Martin Luther King Boulevard in 2001. John.
 Whereas the owner and developer of JD China restaurant on a one and three quarter acre parcel dedicated about two thirds of an acre for tree preservation easement on the northern part of his parcel in 2001. And whereas upon the closing of JD China, the owner desired to sell his 1.09 acre developed portion of his property to Raising Canes, which did not want to accept ownership of the 0.67 acre tree preservation easement and property upon which the easement was located.
 And whereas despite some concerns about creating future problems by splitting off this two-thirds of an acre parcel with substantial street frontage but with no development rights into a separate lot, a lot split was granted in 2016. And whereas the landowner now requests that the tree preservation easement covering this .67 acre lot be vacated and abolished to permit sale and development of this lot.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that the owner of the .67-acre lot
 covered by a dedicated tree preservation easement has proven to the city council satisfaction that such vacation and abolishment of the tree Preservation easement is in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville and therefore grants the landowners request to vacate and abolish The existing tree preservation easement on this point six seven acre parcel Yeah, hey good morning or good afternoon. The applicant has requested that this item be tabled today
 Of course, that's up to the city council whether you want to leave it on the first reading. You don't have to table it, obviously. You can leave it on the first reading or you can go through. I should note that this was not recommended by the urban forester, I think, John. Why don't you give your report about what you would normally do so they at least know what we're talking about. Yeah, we did recommend denial of their request for the vacation of this easement.
 As he had given some indication, this original tree preservation easement was part of JD China in 2001. And it was done so to meet their requirement for large-scale development. And then when they sold JD China, we're in the process of selling it to Raising Canes. Raising Canes did not want to purchase the area in the back, which is .67 acres.
 THAT IS TREE PRESERVATION EASEMENT. THEY WANTED TO DO A LOT SPLIT WHICH WE ALLOWED THEM TO DO. I DID RECOMMEND BUT I DON'T ACTUALLY REVIEW LOTS SPLITS BUT I WAS VERY LEERY OF THIS. AS FAR AS THE DISCUSSION GOES, WE FEEL THAT THIS SETS A PRETTY
 SETS A PRECEDENT THAT WE'RE NOT IN FAVOR OF THAT WOULD ALLOW PEOPLE TO SKIRT AROUND THE TREE PRESERVATION EASEMENTS. THE STAFF RECOMMENDS AGAINST THIS VACATION. IT'S GOING TO CREATE A LOOPHOLE IF WE ALLOW THE DEVELOPER TO GO AHEAD AND VACATE THE TREE PRESERVATION EASEMENT. IT'S NOT IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE CITY. THERE'S NOT A BUDGET IMPACT FOR THIS ONE.
 The applicant also did know that this was an unbuildable lot. They did sign, if you note on page 4, a letter that was sent to Bates. And then page 5, the track split, said that this was definitely an unbuildable lot. So they knew very much that it was not going to be an unbuildable lot when they signed and did the lot split. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Now first I want to make a point here. My copy says a resolution.
 Is it an ordinance kit? No, that is correct. It is a resolution. Okay. I'm sorry. Normal vacations are ordinances, but this one was called for in the UDC and said, and it's not that staff wanted to necessarily bring this forward and they do not support it, but the UDC said that if the owner asked for it, the urban foreshore would bring it forward. So you're right, Mayor. If we don't decide on it tonight, then it had to be tabled.
 Okay. Matthew, you had a... Yeah, did the applicant give a reason for the tabling, and second question, did they request that it was tabled temporarily or indefinitely? Tabled temporarily, and they did not give a reason. Okay, well, I guess my instinct is to go ahead and vote on this tonight, personally. Any other comments from the council? John? Mayor, I go ahead and motion that we table it, and all due respect to Alderman Petty,
 Since it is before us, it came before us because of the landowner, and I think he should control if he wants to go forward with it or not. That's just my perspective, giving him that opportunity. We're just talking a couple of weeks. So he probably had a reason if he asked. Okay. So we have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second that. Okay. What discussion do we have on the tabling item? Mark.
 My concern is, as mentioned by our urban forester, is what we're doing is setting a precedent to skirt around the tree preservation issue. If you look at the documentation associated with this, the lot split,
 PRETTY MUCH SAYS THIS IS NOT A BUILDABLE LOT, THEN YOU SKIRT AROUND IT, YOU VACATE IT, AND SUDDENLY YOU'RE REMOVING THE TREES THAT ARE PROTECTED. SO I THINK WE SHOULD GO AHEAD AND MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS BECAUSE THERE'S ALL IT IS IS JUST KIND OF A CREATING A LOOPHOLE THAT'S GOING TO SKIRT AROUND OUR CURRENT TREE PRESERVATION ORDINANCE.
 Okay. Any public comments on the table? Yes, Matthew, I'm sorry. One more question for you. Yes, sir.
 I read the documentation and the letter requesting the vacation is very short. It said that the client, the owner, just wanted to make the lot buildable. Were there any other reasons given verbally that might be extenuating circumstances or unusual reasons that we might not anticipate? They also would like to sell the property. Okay. Thank you. Okay. John. Just trying to firm up my position. Again, we're only hearing one side of the argument.
 It's kind of like being in a court of law and we just let one side present their case. I'd like to hear what those arguments are. Now, maybe the owner has no arguments. Maybe there was a reason the letter was short. Maybe they really are trying to skirt the tree ordinance. And if that's the case, we can vote it down. But I'd like to at least hear his arguments, give him a chance to be heard, instead of just voting it down tonight. I take it he's not here right now. So I would encourage us to— Is the applicant here?
 I would encourage us to at least wait a couple of weeks and give them a chance to come forward with those arguments before we make a final decision. Sandra? Is the motion to table a date specific or indefinitely? I said two weeks. All right. Any other comments from counsel on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? No. Hutch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? No. Gray? No. Marsh? No. Ken? No.
 That motion failed. Okay. We're back to the original. Okay. What public comment do we have on the ordinance? I'm sorry, the resolution. That was my fault, Mayor. I got you on the wrong track. A pencil in ordinance is what I wrote.
 Yes. Hi, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Pred Street. I have also recently been put on the Urban Forestry Board. I'm just going to say, like, let's not do this. We already have a couple other problems that we've been having with people finding loopholes about our trees. The whole job of what we value in Fayetteville, one of those big things, is to have a green network, an enduring network by...
 letting these trees go it's just going to be dominoes and trees take longer than one generation for of people to grow and so we need to be thinking forward and thinking about not just our children but our children's children and on and on and people who may not even be here in this city at this point thank you okay anyone else okay i'll bring it back to the council mark
 Do we need a motion or do we have the motion? Okay, I would move that we deny this. Is that what I do? Or are we just voting no on the resolution? You can either move to pass the resolution and it would require five votes to pass, but you could also move to deny the request.
 And that would require a majority of people here, so that would require five votes also to pass. So it kind of depends on what you want to do. The burden really is on...
 the applicant, which in this case is not here, but I think in this particular case, if you wanted to just make a motion to deny the resolution, then I think you could do that also. I move that we deny the resolution. Okay, we have a motion to deny. Kyle? I will second that. We have a motion and a second to deny the resolution. What comments do we have on it? Matthew? Yeah, I just want to say, I don't know what circumstances the owner bought this, but
 But, given the owner all the benefit of the doubt that they were unaware of this, I'm not unsympathetic to that. If somebody were to come forward and propose a swap with an equivalent parcel in a similar location or a parcel of greater value to our tree canopy, I'd definitely consider some kind of a swap if they needed to build on this parcel. But otherwise, I agree with everything in the staff report.
 MARK COOPERMAN If you look at this specific piece of property, this is a tree buffer behind the property into a more residential area. And so it's also looking at this specific piece of property and the importance of this specific piece of property that I am considering my opinion on this.
 Okay. Any other? Kyle. I just had a couple of questions to clarify the applicant's relationship to the property. Was this the owner when the tree preservation easement was put in place? Yes. Okay. So this is the owner who dedicated the easement? Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 John, one question for you. Under our tree ordinance, is it true that in lieu of planting trees, I can pay a sum of money into a trust fund? Yeah, a tree escrow fund. Tree escrow fund? Correct. Okay. But that is if you're developing and you go below your minimum requirement. And this is not the case on this one. But there are exceptions to the rule of having to have trees. We don't want it to be a real harsh rule.
 So we allow for some exceptions to that rule, right? Yes. Right. I just want to point that out. I do want to be clear, though, Councilman Latour, that tree preservations, when dedicated, can only be changed by this council. Right. There is no ordinance provision or variance to allow for that because it was given as a preservation in a prior development request. Well, I would like to see us be a little bit lenient
 On this particular, I mean, I wanted him to have two weeks to come and make his argument, make his case, but he's not going to have that. We're going to deny it. But he can always bring it back for another request, right?
 General Counsel? I don't think I see anything in the code at this point in time that would prevent that. I will probably propose an amendment to the Unified Development Code so that it's not required when somebody just asks that instead they might have to get like an alderman or someone else like that to sponsor it so it's not just automatic, the urban forester has to bring it forward. Right. Okay. Well, I just want to make that clear that he's not out, he still has some options.
 even though we're going to probably vote him down tonight. John, when did you say he bought this piece of property? I believe in... Has he always owned it? In 2001 when it developed as J.D. China. It was the same owner. Okay. I'm familiar with this piece of property because I was councilman from the old Ford to time.
 That used to be almost completely tree covered. And they dug completely into that bank, and I managed to salvage this tree preservation as a buffer between that and the neighborhood, which said we won't have a tree buffer. I'm not counseling them over there anymore. But that was the only thing that we could salvage that remained of those large old trees over there.
 So that promise was made, you're saying, by this particular owner, and now they want to change that. Correct. Okay. Well, my position hasn't changed since 2001. So I just wanted to give you just a little bit of history. Thank you, John. Any other questions or comments? All right, we have a motion to deny this resolution. Senator, please call the roll. Eddie.
 Vote yes to deny. Yes. Batch. Yes. Mature. No. Meth. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. It was denied. Thank you, counsel. All right, number three. In order to approve vacation 18-61-19 property located at 2021 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described water and sewer right-of-way grant is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant
 As described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo, Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Arne, do you have this? Yes.
 Yes, Mayor, this is a vacation request in the Mission Heights subdivision, which is under construction presently. As you can see, it's a paper vacation and it doesn't relate to how the subdivision is flooded. It's currently not used and there are no utilities, so the Planning Commission and staff recommend approval.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant's representative is here also. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? The applicant's representative. Excuse me. Yes. My name is Lawrence Finn. I represent the developer of Mission Heights. Essentially, we actually vacated a similar easement that ran the same location that was –
 early, from the early 60s, a gas easement in that same location. It was a housekeeping issue that was overlooked that we didn't realize that underlying that was another easement, water and sewer. So we are requesting the vacation of that easement. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have? If I just want to turn it to Mike now, you get five minutes. Keep your comments directed to me. Okay.
 Don't engage the council member or anybody in the public. And you can have more time with the council, make some motion in a second and get approval. Otherwise, they may ask you questions, and therefore you may not come back to the mic unless they ask you questions or give you more time. So we'd like to have your name and address, and who would like to be first on this? Okie dokie, fine. All right, I'll bring it back to the council. Adele. I move we go to the second reading. We have a second. Second.
 John second motion we have the motion in a second ago the second reading son, would you please call the roll? Eddie yes Yes, yes, yes, yes, right? Yes, March. Yes Yes, and your nance approved the AC 18-61 19 for property located at 2021 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant I
 If we go to the third and final reading. Do I have a second? No. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Ness? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 18-6119 for property located at 2021 East Mission Boulevard to vacate a portion of a water and sewer right-of-way grant. Thank you.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, number four. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6120 for property located along Nammiship Street between South Graham Avenue and South Razorback Road to vacate a portion of street right of way. Kip?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number 2.
 The vacated portion of Nettleship right-of-way shall be retained as a drainage and utility easement. 3. The proposed extension of Leroy Pond shall be constructed in accordance with the City of Favorable Specifications, and unless a variance is approved by the Planning Commission, shall be designed in accordance with the City's Master Street Plan Local Street Section.
 4 The proposed extension of Leroy Pond Drive shall be completed and dedicated to the City of Fayetteville prior to this vacation becoming final and prior to any damage or removal of the portion of Nettleship Street to be vacated. 5 This is Nettleship One Block West of Ruzerak Road.
 And the reason for the request is that the University of Arkansas is intending to build a parking lot in this location. And if it's vacated and reconstructed, it would look something like this. A nettleship would tee, and it would loop over—and let me go back and show you the theory here.
 Meadow Street is a fully signalized intersection. Leroy Pond is a fully signalized intersection. So northbound traffic could go north and take advantage of this light, or they could just make this short loop and go north also. But it solves some access issues, some density of access along Razorback Road.
 Their intent is to reconstruct this parking lot in this configuration using the vacated Nettleship Street. It solves some of the traffic problems. We have no utility objections. The four conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission that the City Attorney
 do have some issues with the University of Arkansas in terms of the sequencing of their construction. If you take Condition 3 and Condition 4 together, they would have to have two construction projects—and I'm going to go back and show you what I'm talking about. They couldn't let one bid to build this street and the parking lot together.
 They would actually have to bid those separately to meet those conditions. We did talk to Mike Johnson, Chris Brown and I did this morning. There's another issue there. Their street submission that they have shown to us doesn't meet the City of Fayetteville street standards they're proposing to dedicate it to us, so that needs to be resolved.
 we think we can work out both issues and bring back some revised conditions at your next meeting so our recommendation is just leave it on first reading okay okay what questions do we have any questions for staff on this any public comment on this okay bring back the council we leave it on first reading
 All right, let's go on to number five. In order to amend the Forest Hills Residential Plan Zoning District 07-2793 to add use unit 14 hotels, motel, and amusement facilities to the permitted uses within Planning Area 2. Okay.
 Whereas, the owner of the Forest Hills Residential Plan Zoning District proposes to build a multi-story hotel on the southern portion of Planning Area No. 2, which is currently not allowed without amending RPZD to add Use Unit 14 hotels, motels, and amusement facilities to the permitted uses within that planning area. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the owner's request to amend the Forest Hills Residential Plan Zoning District to add Use Unit 14, Hotels, Motels, and Amusement Facilities to the permitted uses within Planning Area 2 with the following conditions. Number one, all conditions of approval from the previously approved Forest Hills RPZD 07-2793 shall remain in full force and effect.
 2. In addition to those architectural standards proposed by the applicant, this development shall be subject to all requirements of the Commercial, Office, and Mixed-Use Design Development Standards. 3. Approval of this RPCD modification does not grant approval of the development details for the project. The proposed hotel will be required to be reviewed for compliance with all Unified Development Code requirements as part of the standard development review
 4. The zoning requirements attached to the staff memo will be in addition to all previous zoning regulations on the subject property. 5. Mayor, this is located south of Salem Road and Weddington Drive. It is an amendment to a partially built out planned zoning district.
 The original plan that was approved by Town Council looks something like this. The portion that is requested for an amendment is in yellow, and it presently has an approval for the construction of five apartment buildings.
 We will amend the planned development district to allow the four-story hotel something like this. It is designated in the city neighborhood area and in the Weddington neighborhood plan it is a mixed-use area. It encourages a variety of residential and non-residential building types.
 The issue is whether it's a good idea to remove the residential approval that's presently there and add a four-story hotel, guest hotel. It is in fairly close proximity to the interchange, and there are many goods and services in close proximity to this area.
 Plenty commission and staff recommend approval of the PZD amendment with the conditions that the city attorney read Okay, what questions do we have? What public comment do we have on this okay, we'll bring it back to the council Matthew may I move to spend the rules and go the next reading Second Sarah second motion second to go the second reading Please call the roll
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, and in order to amend the Forest Hills residential planned zoning district 07-2793 to add use unit 14 hotels, motels, and amusement facilities to permitted uses within planning area 2. Okay. Adele? I move we go to the third and final reading.
 Second that motion there we have a motion to second go third and final reading Please call her up Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, and nor does to amend the Forest Hills residential plans only district o 7-27 93 to add you to the 14 hotels motels and amusement facilities to the permitted uses within planning area 2 and
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Mature. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, the resolution to approve and adopt the welcoming federal plan. Just I believe you have this. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Good evening.
 I have a short presentation for you guys this evening. My name is Augusta Branham. There you go. My name is Augusta Branham, and I'm on our communications team. I work as a project manager. If we can get this pulled up, we'll get started, and then I'll take questions at the end. I saw this agenda session, so I know it's going to work. It's a really good presentation. Maybe, if we're lucky. Well...
 Do you want to go on to the next item and then we come back to this or do we think we'll get it fixed here? We could if you wanted to. Up to the city council, they need to suspend the rules and go on to the next item and then come back to this one. Next item is the contract with the attorneys. The full presentation. This presentation is not on the website. I have it pulled up right here. Mr. Mayor, I'm going to suspend the rules and go on to the next item and then come back to this one.
 Hang on, John. There he is. All right. So Keith, I need to. So Keith, will you change my side? Go back to the end. Okay. All right, guys. So it is a mission of ours in the communications department to be transparent about information with the public and active in community engagement. And we see this as a really important part of this specific plan.
 For about a year and a half now, we have been working on this plan as a way for us to create recommendations that will allow us to be intentional about welcoming, integrating, and including new Americans in our community. In the Mayor's 2017 State of the City Address, he announced his intention to create this plan, and we've made a lot of progress in the last year and a half working with our stakeholders and the public.
 This evening we'll review our mission, how we got here, the nuts and bolts of the plan, the importance of the plan, and what we think implementation looks like. As we started thinking about this plan at the beginning of last year, we asked ourselves what we wanted to accomplish with these welcoming efforts.
 And as we started meeting with stakeholders who work with New Americans in many sectors, we heard common themes in those conversations and our mission became very clear. So this is what we came up with. To create a plan focused on the inclusion and integration of New Americans in our community so that we can help break down barriers and make everyday life easier for those who are new to our country and our community.
 The idea of creating this plan all started about a year and a half ago in fall 2016. The mayor was first introduced to the welcoming city concept when he met with the Northwest Arkansas Council and other Northwest Arkansas mayors to hear the results of a report. Okay.
 on the economic impact of immigrants in our region. And then later, the group reconvened to consider the opportunity to work together on a regional effort.
 It was after those meetings that we started considering our own welcoming city plan. We think that most people do view us as a city that stands for equality and diversity, and it only seemed natural that we would make intentional efforts to further that mission, especially knowing that immigrants accounted for 42% of the region's population growth between 2009 and 2014, according to the census.
 You can also see that our total foreign-born population is just a little more than 7%. However, the foreign-born population in Rogers, Bentonville, and Springdale is much higher.
 In fact, our neighbor to the north, Springdale, has the highest percentage in the region at 25%. We know that this population does not live in Fayetteville, but they certainly enjoy our city through parks, retail, restaurants, the university, and our employers. Census data has also revealed that the Northwest Arkansas region has experienced significant demographic changes in recent decades.
 In 2000, 6.9% of the region's population was foreign born. Today, 11.2% of the region's population is foreign born. Additionally, you can see up here that in 1990, nearly 96% of the population was white and 1.3% was Hispanic Latino.
 Today, 73% of the population is white and 16% is Hispanic Latino. Projections show the region's population becoming even more diverse in coming years. So after considering our community's values and these numbers, we decided to get to work on this plan.
 When the mayor announced the plan during a State of the City address, we had begun to identify our list of stakeholders that you can see up here, and we started mapping our planning process. Last year, we met with stakeholders to talk about our existing conditions, what we can do to improve, and many stakeholders took the time to have one-on-one detailed conversations about the folks they work with on a daily basis.
 And we also held group stakeholder meeting at the town center last July, which is pictured up here. We used those conversations to get us to the point where we were ready to take some strategies to the public for input.
 To start the public input sessions, we issued a media release in both English and Spanish and also an online survey in English and Spanish. And we also scheduled five in-person workshops in which we asked similar questions about priorities.
 The in-person workshops were held at the Farmers Market, the Library, the Hispanic Heritage Festival, a Tuesday evening at City Hall, and in front of the Student Union on the University campus. We had around 200 people attend those in-person workshops, and we also had more than 200 people fill out the online surveys. So we think we had total between four and five hundred folks giving us feedback.
 The stories and thoughts that we received at these sessions were incredibly valuable as we began to put together the plan. There was a lot of positivity around these strategies, and we heard a lot of folks say how grateful they are that the city is taking this on. As we began evaluating the data, there were several items that surfaced as the top barriers and areas for us to work on.
 Last year, we did a lot of research on other Welcoming City plans, and we looked at what other cities are doing, how their plans are organized, and common themes. We also talked with Welcoming America, which is the national organization that oversees these efforts, and all of this led us to identify three categories to organize our plan. First one.
 First, we have the future. The future is our youth and our overall education system. The future means thinking ahead and building today for a better tomorrow. The future demands patience, nurturing, and open ears. Secondly, we have the community.
 A successful community creates a sense of belonging. It embraces and shifts with its changing population. It celebrates diversity through avenues that are accessible to everyone. And a community breaks down barriers and makes everyday life easier. And then lastly, we have the economic impact.
 As seen in those recent reports, the economic impact of New Americans on this region is undeniable, and their presence in our region is critical for our workforce pipeline. This means more jobs, more contributions, a more diverse working population, and a well-educated population. In each of these categories, we have recommendations that fit into these sector groups.
 In total, there are 25 strategies in this plan, and these are split up into short-term category that is defined as six months to a year, a midterm category defined as one to two years, and then a long-term category, three to five years. We worked very closely with our stakeholders on these recommendations, and we're ready to get started on making changes with them. I'd like to go through a few examples in the plan.
 So the first, I'll go through three of the 25. The first is to establish welcoming hubs to share information, offer classes, and serve as congregating spaces. We see this as a way to expand access to resources, and we'll start this off by working with the schools who have said that they think this could tie in well to their new centralized enrollment program.
 which is happening this year in August, and also the library, especially as they begin their expansion. The next is to identify a long-term funding solution for transit route expansions and ensure that basic information such as route maps, charts, and apps is multilingual.
 We heard from you, our city council, during your strategic planning process and most recently in our mobility plan about how important transit access is to our community. We also heard those same concerns for new Americans who are new to our country and may not have a driver's license or access to a car and they need to make it to job interviews, school, or even doctor's appointments.
 We know that this isn't something that will be solved overnight, but we do think we can make transit use a little easier in a couple ways, especially for new Americans. We heard many times that our transit providers lack critical integration. Maps must be used separately, and route planning can be very difficult.
 Last year, ORT put the route data in Google Maps, and we would love to see Razorback add their routes too, and that was recently discussed at a town and gown meeting.
 Google Maps is a widely used tool that is not only multilingual based on how you have your phone set, but it also allows for easy route planning and transfers, especially for individuals who solely rely on transit. This will remove the need to look at two separate entities. And up here you can see that
 From here at City Hall, if you select the transit option in Google Maps, that it only gives you ORT as an option. And it even says your preferred vehicles can't be used to reach this destination. So that's if you're going up north to Walmart Supercenter.
 You can also see that just based on changing the phone settings, it's multilingual. And we also know that Razorback does indeed go to Walmart, but that data is not in Google Maps. The last one I'll go over is to create a course for adults to take an introduction to city government.
 Through our planning process, we heard about the lack of diversity in our city government. We do plan on removing barriers for some folks who wish to serve on our boards and committees, but we also know that the people who apply for those are typically already engaged and familiar with how the city operates. So we see this course as a first step to getting people involved.
 This will be an introduction to how the city works, how decisions are made, the organizational structure, and how to find information about current projects and items coming to the council, and how we work with other entities. We think that this is something that we're lacking not only for this new American population, but really the whole city.
 This will tie in nicely with the recommendation I mentioned about creating welcoming hubs and again especially with the library's expansion. As I mentioned, the creation of this plan was spurred from that 2016 report on the economic impact of New Americans in the region.
 We know from this report that our region relies on new Americans who play an important role in supporting industries defined by the census, such as construction, manufacturing, transportation and warehousing, and information and communication. We also know that Northwest Arkansas is no stranger to entrepreneurs.
 and research shows that immigrants are more likely to start new businesses. Despite accounting for only 13% of the U.S. population in 2014, nearly 29% of new entrepreneurs were immigrants.
 Beyond this clear economic impact, we know that there is value in the diversity and cultures that new Americans bring to our schools and our workplaces. There's research that shows positive effects, such as improved problem solving and critical thinking skills when we're around individuals who are different than ourselves. Essentially, diversity makes us smarter and it makes our communities stronger.
 And the last point I'll note here is that Fayetteville is home to Canopy NWA, which is the region's nonprofit agency for refugee resettlement. Since December 2016, Canopy has welcomed 55 refugees, and there are 50 more individuals on their way this year. So I think it's easy to say that we're growing and we're changing, and this plan is a way for us to embrace these changes with intention.
 Some of you have heard this, but I wanted to share again that last July we did become designated as the first welcoming city in Arkansas by Welcoming America. And with this designation, there are a few things that we're expected to do. The first is to plan and work together with our stakeholders to create a welcoming community. The second is to commit to implementing this welcoming plan.
 The third is to build community and find common ground. The fourth is to communicate our welcoming message. And the fifth is to sustain with policies and welcoming practices.
 As we are implementing this plan, there are many outcomes that we'd like to see, which are all listed in the plan. But some of these outcomes include increasing the 7% foreign-born population to hopefully a double-digit number. For, I think, nearly 20 years now, we've been pretty stagnant.
 We'd also like to see a diverse demographic participating in local government, more multilingual materials and resources available, and thoughtful approaches to programs that take into consideration all residents. We also think conducting a community perception survey related to the plan can help us when we look back at our progress in five years.
 This plan will serve as a way for us to be intentional about meeting the needs of not only those who live here, but also those who work, visit, learn, and play in our city. Thank you. Any questions? What questions do we have, Council? Yes, Mayor. I have a question. Okay. John, I believe you have a question. Okay.
 I was just wondering if the student population is figured in that farm-born population. I do not believe it is. And right now, the university, they're at around 5%, I believe. So they're actually lower than the city overall. I think they have 1,500 international students. Thank you. All right, John?
 Very impressive. Ms. Brown, a very impressive presentation. Thank you. Thank you, John. I think it's important that we do welcome people, that we have a welcoming attitude, and people feel welcome in our city. You mentioned in your presentation that you patterned our welcoming program after other cities' welcoming programs that you looked at. Did you look at any cities in the state of California?
 I can't remember any specifically in California, no. Which were the largest cities you looked at? The largest? Chicago. They've done a great job, and we've modeled some of our items after things that they've done. Okay, thank you. And when we're working with foreign-born nationals and we're welcoming to our town,
 Are we concerned at all with their legality or the legal status, whether they're legal or illegal immigrants? Related to this plan, I would say no, and that's because it just simply doesn't matter. We're not concerned about someone's status in any of the work we do at the city, and I don't think that would be any different for this plan. If we put a utility bill in Spanish, for example,
 no telling who can benefit from that. We're not going to ask them whether they're here legally or not. It doesn't relate. I agree. And I think we should print them in Spanish to accommodate our users. Thank you for your honest answer. Thank you. Okay. Cut.
 THANK YOU, AUGUSTA. FOR ALL YOUR STAKEHOLDERS AND MAYOR, I WANT TO COMMIT TO EVERYBODY INVOLVED IN THIS, YOU'VE SHOWN THAT YOUR STAFF CAN PUT TOGETHER AS THOROUGH AND THOUGHTFUL AND COMPASSIONATE A REPORT AS ANY CONSULTANT YOU COULD HAVE BROUGHT IN FOR THIS ONE. I THINK THIS IS FULL OF NATURAL FITS FOR FAYETTEVILLE.
 A lot of the action items in there call for work from the Chamber or the schools. Can you talk a little bit about the relationship you've built with them over this plan and the buy-in?
 Yeah, they have been very involved from the beginning. A year and a half ago, we've met one-on-one with people from the chamber. We even worked with them for one of our public input meetings, which was at the Hispanic Heritage Festival, which they host.
 So they've been very involved and so has the schools. We asked actually some of the people at the schools we've been working on this so long that some people have changed positions since we started, but we had the ESL director to begin with and the director of student services.
 That was someone we met with, I think, at the end of 2016 or very beginning of 2017, and they were involved throughout the whole planning process. And then about a year ago, the schools also hired two new ESL co-directors, and they've been invaluable in this process. They came to our stakeholder meetings and helped share information there.
 And then we also met with the folks at Adult Ed. And I guess the big difference that I noticed in looking at this and other plans that we have looked at is that there's not a lot of city council policy changes asked for in this one. It's mostly looks like administrative issues.
 So besides passing a resolution of support tonight saying yeah, we like it and and you all have Have the free reign to implement all of these how else can we help ensure that you know the efforts that are laid out here? Survive any future change in administration. Yeah, so to start that
 of course we'd like for you guys to help make sure that we're getting these items checked off over the next five years and we also hope that all these stakeholders that we've built really good relationships with help us get these items checked off too no matter who's in the mayor's office in five years we hope that they'll hold us accountable some of them here in the audience today
 And beyond that, our community really holds values like diversity and inclusion, equitable access at the heart of our community. This is something that we think the community wants, not just our administration. Thank you. Who else? Okay. Now we'll take some public comment. Who would like to address this? Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute time limit.
 Keep your remarks addressed to me. You get more time if a council member makes a motion, they get a second. They'll vote the majority of the council. Otherwise, they can bring you back to ask you questions. Otherwise, you will not be allowed to return. And don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public. So who would like to be first? Give us your name and address, please. Or at least your name and address. Thank you.
 Hi, Mayor. My name is Haley Allgood. I live at 3034 East History. I'm here today on behalf of Startup Junkie to agree with a lot of the comments that have already been stated by Augusta and seem relevant for the city of Fayetteville. We at Startup Junkie absolutely believe that supporting immigrant and new American entrepreneurs should be part of the economic development plan for the city.
 In addition to the stats that Augusta gave that new American entrepreneurs are actually overrepresented, also the Fortune 500 list has over 40% companies started by immigrants or their children. So there can be a very large economic impact by some of the initiatives that are set out in this plan.
 I'VE REVIEWED THE PLAN SPECIFICALLY WITH DEVIN HOWLAND, SO TO ANSWER THE PREVIOUS QUESTION ON HOW STAKEHOLDERS THAT ARE LISTED IN THE PLAN FEEL ABOUT IMPLEMENTING, WE ARE IN FULL
 One item is to provide comprehensive support for immigrant-owned startup companies. This is something that is currently being done by Startup Junkie for all Fayetteville residents and will be continued for immigrant entrepreneurs. And we've spoken with Devin on how we can work with community partners to really provide the best support possible.
 I'll throw one example out there that I was speaking to Jeff Amarine, principal of Startup Junkie, about was with Sanjeev, who's actually the founder of Zenwork, which is visible from the city of Fayetteville Square. Zenwork is a company that has long been a client of Startup Junkie and received assistance in getting started. Their founder, Sanjeev, is from India. Yeah.
 AND IS NOW AN EXPERIENCED ENTREPRENEUR. HE'S ALSO JUST THE TYPE OF ENTREPRENEUR THAT WE WOULD CALL ON TO BE A MENTOR FOR A START-UP COMPANY, WHICH IS ALSO ANOTHER POINT IN THE PLAN. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THIS? NEW SPEAKER GOOD EVENING, MAYOR. MY NAME IS MARGO LEMASTER. I LIVE AT 220 WEST ADAMS STREET.
 I'm also the director of Welcome Northwest Arkansas, which is part of the Northwest Arkansas Council's larger diversity and inclusion efforts. And I just wanted to say that we're glad to see Fayetteville's leadership in developing this plan that's right for Fayetteville. The City of Fayetteville has been very supportive of the Council's larger regional diversity and inclusion efforts and planning process.
 AND WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT. NOT ALL CITIES WHO ARE WORKING ON INCREASING INCLUSION IN THE REGION WILL FOCUS ON THE SAME EFFORTS THAT PHAIATVILLE HAS IDENTIFIED, BUT WE THINK YOUR PLAN CAN SERVE AS A ROADMAP FOR OTHER CITIES, NOT ONLY IN NORTHWEST ARKANSAS BUT THROUGHOUT THE STATE. SO THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER P. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS US? NEW SPEAKER P. I'M DIANE WILLIAMS, BOARD PRESIDENT OF COMPASSION PHAIATVILLE.
 And over the last year, 14 months I believe, we have sponsored a refugee family from the DRC, the Congo, in Africa. A family of three, mother, father, and a little boy, who lived in a refugee camp in Africa for over 16 years. They arrived in Fayetteville in February or January of last year.
 and frightened beyond words, and with no English skills or very little. So our group and three others, Omni, Compassion Fayetteville, the Unitarian Church, and Temple Shalom took this family to help them adjust to life in America. It's been challenging,
 and an enormous growth experience for all of us, and every single one of us have been blessed beyond belief by this experience. The family, having been here a year, they've already moved once to a better place, a rental that we found for them. As was spoken before, one of the hardest things for them is not having language, so they studied English for a short time, but right away they got jobs.
 The husband is working at George's in Springdale, and his wife is working at one of the local thrift shops. The husband can speak English. He's probably got a 40% grasp of English and speaking it. The mother, not very much at all. And the 8-year-old boy, I'd say 80%. It's incredible. He's flourishing here. They all are. One of the hardest things for the father was to get a driver's license.
 About two weeks ago, he passed his driver's lesson and his driving test, and he's ready to buy a car now. I can't tell you how hard they work. They save every penny they can. They live very simply. They want to be good Americans. They want to do everything they can to prove themselves, and they are here to do that. Just recently, the mother said,
 had gallbladder problems and she had to have surgery to remove it. I asked her husband, could she have had this happen in Africa? He said no. So not only are we helping someone have a new life, we're actually saving lives in some instances. So thank you for allowing me to address you, to give you a heartfelt message
 compassionate reason for wanting more immigrants to come and share their lives with us because we too have been blessed. Thank you. Good evening. Buenas noches. Thank you Mayor Jordan and to the entire City Council for this opportunity. As somebody who identifies as a new American and is accompanied here today by four other new Americans who are also all connected with our University of Arkansas, we do
 We just want to very, very humbly thank you all for considering and taking on this item. To us, it's no surprise and very timely that we are on the eve of the celebration, the acknowledgement, the remembrance of the 50th year anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King. We remember in times like this that by remembering we honor.
 And sometimes it takes something like this, a plan, a document in which we can honor by putting something in writing or in this case by you all voting to take a commitment that we're moving forward and we're moving forward together. I just want to say how grateful we are as immigrants to have been part of this process, to be active stakeholders together.
 and how much this means for me. I know myself personally as a Latina who grew up in Fayetteville, proud graduate of Fayetteville High School, and also serving as the first Latina on the State Board of Education. What this means, not just for this city, but for this state, and as Margot very accurately said, for this country.
 I know I don't have to tell any of you how difficult the last couple years have been for us who work with New Americans and that we have individuals in our communities, including here in Fayetteville, that every day worry if they will be able to go home and be united with their families. And that is only one circumstance. There's a whole range of circumstances in which we and New Americans have found ourselves. So the idea that we can have something to celebrate in times like this,
 that we can find here at the local level the opportunity to provide leadership when we know at the national level, unfortunately these issues have gotten too polarized. This is a moment where we can celebrate, we can thank, and we know that we're not getting ahead of ourselves. You all still have a vote here before you. But I'm hopeful, knowing and having worked with many of you all, that you will take the right decision here and give us a path forward.
 As our Councilman Smith said, these aren't about set forth commitments. More than anything, it's about a covenant of moving forward. And we just want to say that we stand ready as new Americans to work with you. And we just want this opportunity.
 to go beyond words and to take action and to have this space to be able to do so. And having sat where you all sat on so many meetings where so many of these conversations are so negative and about what you all didn't do, I just want to say and thank you all for your service to our city and to our state.
 and celebrate your leadership and the opportunity of doing something positive. And just know that we are watching and we are grateful, and we do hope that we can accompany you in what this hopefully means for our city and the road ahead. So thank you so much. Would you please introduce yourself? Apologies. Mireya Reif, 1819 North Hunters Ridge. Amelia? Mireya. Mireya. Could you spell that, please? M-I-R-E-Y-A. E-Y-A. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, what other comments do we have? Good evening, Mr. Mayor. My name is Emily Crane-Lynn. I live at 867 South Washington Avenue, and I'm here tonight both as a private citizen and in my capacity as Executive Director of Canopy of Northwest Arkansas. I've been blushing, as I've heard our organization mention several times this evening,
 And I think it's indicative of just the spirit of this city, that many of the people who are here with me tonight are people that I work with regularly in our efforts to welcome refugees and integrate them into our community so that they can become...
 full contributing members of this city and of this state. Obviously, because of our mission, this plan is of great importance to me and to my organization. I was honored and pleased when Augusta approached me as a stakeholder, and I was grateful to have the opportunity to speak into the process.
 I will say that I have found in my work with Canopy over the last two years welcoming refugees to this city that we have encountered a spirit of welcome and a desire to see greater diversity and inclusion everywhere we've looked.
 everywhere from the county human services offices to the public schools to the local social security administration to our city administration. Everywhere we have encountered people who are eager to help and welcome refugees to this community. However, I think there's a little bit of a disconnect between the spirit of welcome and the reality where we do find that New American Space Center
 lots of barriers to being able to become full contributing members of our community. Diane touched on several of them. A lack of, you know, we still have a long way to go with our public transportation so that new Americans can access, you know, good jobs and be able to move freely through the community.
 Obtaining a driver's license is very challenging. As you saw, it took this gentleman 14 months to obtain one. So there's lots of different things that pose barriers to new Americans who want to become full members of our community. And I think that this welcoming plan is a terrific first step forward in overcoming those obstacles and in paving the way for refugees and immigrants
 alike to be able to call Fayetteville home and to mean that in the fullest sense of the word. So I want to just offer my full support for this plan and I hope that you will all approve it tonight. I also want to just add as a private citizen that this sort of initiative makes Fayetteville a very attractive place for me to live.
 My husband and I are both young, and there's many different places in the country where we have friends and that would be attractive to us to live. But this kind of community doing this kind of work in this place, it's the sort of place that we want to live. And I think that many people my age, both in Arkansas and other places around the country, will be attracted to Fayetteville specifically because we're now on that map as a welcoming community, as a welcoming city. And so I just want to applaud your leadership.
 for making this plan happen, and thank you. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address this?
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan. My name is Taylor Shelton. I work for the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce as the Director of Government Affairs. I'm here as a resident and as a representative of the chamber. And it was mentioned what the buy-in from the Chamber of Commerce and other organizations is, and I just wanted to reiterate that we have our full support in moving this plan forward. We are looking forward to any opportunities in which we can be partners in identifying ways that we can continue this plan and make for Fayetteville to be a more inclusive and diverse place.
 As you all know, the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce has a number of services that we can provide for many small businesses, non-profits, but we wanna make sure that our other events, such as the Hispanic Heritage Festival, which was mentioned, are events in which inclusivity and diversity are priorities of these events. And so I just wanna reiterate that you do have the full support of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, and we look forward to opportunities and partnerships moving this forward. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Go ahead and get ready. I know you've started to get up a couple of times. Go ahead. Yes. Go ahead. Hello. Hello.
 Hello, my name is Ahmad Mihal. I live on 2475 Riverwater Lane. I'm a junior at Hoss Hall Academy in Fayetteville, and I also would like to issue my support for this because as a student, and I guess I'm the son of an immigrant, so I interact with the immigrant community a lot, and as a student, I have many immigrant friends as well, and the spirit of diversity in Fayetteville has helped a lot
 both kids of immigrants, immigrants and even other members of the community as students or other children here also embrace that diversity. And so I think that really helps the culture in Fayetteville. And so I'm in support of this bill, but, and I think that we have the spirit, but we, as stated before, we don't really, we haven't really implemented that as much. And I think that doing that would help the community more and it would help students feel more safe and
 And also, as a student, I never really thought about going to the U of A, but now seeing this new spirit of diversity, I'm like, we have the culture. Maybe I should think about it. And so this, I guess, bills like these or plans like these also increase civic engagement. And so I am in full support of this, and I hope you guys pass this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yes. Did somebody leave this up here? There's a little.
 It's the mouse. Oh, okay. Hi, good afternoon, council. Good to see you, Mr. Mayor. I haven't been here in a while, but I'm glad you are letting us speak on this. I am too fully in support of being welcoming to new people that come to the area. Is this on? Yeah. Can you hear me okay? Because usually I hear an echo. Did I identify myself? No, you have not. 2070 East Spinelli, apartment three. I've moved since then. I spent...
 over 40 years in South Florida, a very, very, very diverse place. There were people from Haiti, from Germany, from Britain, from Jamaica, from Cuba, from Honduras, from all over the world that lived there. And there was no welcoming cities, and everyone felt welcome. I think this is much to do about nothing. And it came to my mind
 An old saying that is very apropos here, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. I think this is very much, much to do about nothing. To make Fayetteville a welcoming city, I think is an exercise in absurdity, because it is a welcoming city already. So to designate it as such seems to me a little bit ridiculous. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Anyone?
 OK, I will bring it back to the council. Adela. Mayor, this is a very exciting time for me.
 Internationals have always been very close to my heart. When we moved here in 73, I asked, I was wondering, you know, very young, and I was wondering what I could do to be a part. I was told that we needed an international wives organization on our campus.
 And I started that and it's still flourishing today. And Gary and I have had many, many wonderful opportunities during back in the 70s, visiting with international wives and helping them to integrate into our community.
 And so this is very exciting to me. Thank you so much for the strong work on putting this together and helping us to, once again, show the state how to be a progressive city. Thank you. Thank you. Bill? Okay. Sarah? I'd like to move that we approve the resolution. Kyle? Second. All right. Any final comments from the council?
 Well, I want to say just a couple of things. We've worked on this a couple of years, and I want to thank Augusta Brown for her work on this. She has spent hours and hours and hours in meeting with this group and that group, and without her hard work and dedication, this plan would not be what it is today. And I want to thank all of you that have had a part to play in this.
 Yeah, I was thinking about, you know, the things that makes moments like this important is that when you look at equality, diversity, and inclusion, I always think, I was reading today where it talked about droplets that hit on a hard rock and it begins to erode away the rough edges and the hardness of the stone and the intolerance that it might have in it.
 And to me, this may not be a perfect plan, and it may not be exactly where we need to be right now, but tomorrow will be another day, and we will go forward. And it's that consistent drip, drip, drip of equality, diversity, and inclusion that erodes away all that intolerance and fear and concern and breaks down those barriers of inclusion.
 of prejudice and discrimination. And that's why these kind of plans are important to do because we are making a statement that we are a welcoming, tolerant, giving, loving city. And at the end of the day, as that road say that the stone away, it creates a stream which creates a waterfall which goes into a river. And these kind of steps that we're doing today
 Well, that is going to create that waterfall of equality, diversity, and inclusion and create a river of hope for everyone and all humanity. And it starts right here tonight in this city. So thank you all. And with that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Sant. Yes. Bride. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Canyon. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Very much.
 All right, number seven, a resolution to approve the amendment to agreement for legal services with Mitchell Williams, Siegel, Gates, and Woodyard PLLC for legal services to the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research Advisory Group.
 with the City of Fayetteville's portion of the fees not to exceed the total amount of $35,000. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Councilmembers. I'd like to go back just a little bit on when the nutrient trading started. In the spring of 2005 is when the legislation approved the Act 335 that authorized nutrient trading programs.
 In November of 2015, the City Council passed a resolution expressing its intent to participate in a regional effort towards the development and implementation of a nutrient water quality trading program. The Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research Advisory Group, also known as NANTRAG, was formed in 2016, and the Council passed a resolution authorizing the City of Fayetteville to join with the cities of Rogers, Bentonville, and Springdale.
 to form this group. The group has petitioned the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission to initiate rulemaking to adopt a new nutrient training regulation, which would address nutrient water quality training projects and approval of these projects. Basically outline the rules for nutrient training program. An agreement in March of 2017 authorized Mitchell, Williams, Selig, Gates, and Woodyard to provide legal services on behalf of the Northwest Nantrag.
 Each city signed an agreement for legal services and each city contributed $20,000 apiece. The expenses that started a year ago have reached that amount and additional legal services will be needed in the amount of $15,000 per city to finish this process. I'd like to talk a little bit about how the process is going. We're right now in the public comment period. Last week there were...
 public hearings, one in Little Rock and one in Fayetteville. The main subject of those public hearings was that the regulation needed more specifics because it could be ripe for abuse if not. So the written comment period closes on May 2nd. The ADEQ will respond to all comments and Nantrag as well will respond to all comments. We welcome all comments because with
 All those views, the amendment will certainly be amended, and we'll try to have a regulation that we can all use and have a successful nutrient trading program. After that is over, it does go through the governor's office. It goes through the public health committee, the rules and regulation committee, and then it has a legislative review process before going back to the Pollution Control and Ecology Commission. So it's got a ways to go.
 Back to the subject of the allocation of money, we are requesting to utilize the funds out of the Phosphorus Standards Management Project to pay the additional legal costs of a not-to-exceed amount of $15,000. And this is contingent upon unanimous approval by Rogers, Bentonville, and Springdale altogether.
 This was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on February the 13th with a unanimous recommendation to send it to the council for consideration. Do you have any answer to the questions that you might have? What questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council members. My name is Theresa Turk. I live at 1408 West Cleveland here in Fayetteville. In my opinion, the proposed regulation has many, many problems that I addressed specifically during the public hearing last week. I've also drafted some letters that I have sent out identifying the problems with these regulations.
 The regulations are full of loopholes, and the authors do not seem to have reviewed any prior nutrient management trading regulations in other states. The regulations do not provide safeguards or protective measures for our rivers and streams of northwest Arkansas and the entire state.
 Given the lack of safeguards and controls of the regulations, I don't believe the citizens of Fayetteville are getting their money's worth, especially at the rate of $400 an hour for some of the attorneys.
 I asked that the City Council deny the resolution to amend the contract for legal services with Mitchell Williams to the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research Advisory Group. I did not see an explanation about why an additional $15,000 was needed. The original amount was for $20,000 for their services, so this is almost double what the initial request was.
 Finally, I believe that the current regulations are in conflict with the City's 2050 vision of ecosystem preservation. I think it's in conflict with those principles, and I'm asking you to deny the additional funding for this group. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the Council.
 THIS WAS DISCUSSED AT WATER, SEWER AND SOLID WASTE. WE CERTAINLY RECOGNIZE THE ISSUES THAT WAS BROUGHT TO OUR ATTENTION. AND IT'S EXACTLY BECAUSE OF THESE ISSUES, AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR INPUT BECAUSE I HAVE ENJOYED THE INFORMATION THAT WE GOT. I THINK THAT WE HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD AS A REGION TO TRY TO HANDLE THE LOOPHOLES, THE
 TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE GETTING OUR MONEY'S WORTH ONCE WE HAVE A FINAL UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THE POSSIBILITIES ARE. THIS IS NOT AN ENDORSEMENT OF THE CURRENT INFORMATION THAT'S BEEN PRESENTED ON THE REGIONAL LEVEL.
 And it was a tough decision to know whether we should invest this or not. But by walking away, we felt like we were walking away from a commitment that we had made earlier. I certainly am open to any discussion, and I think it should be discussed here in City Council if we are getting our money's worth.
 But for the three members that were present at the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee meeting, I think the issue was we had made a commitment to thoroughly investigate the possibilities and that we were still committed to work on a regional basis together.
 on possibilities, not to endorse what is currently being presented. So I wanted to represent that on behalf of the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee. Okay. John. I echo what Councilmember Kenyon has said. There's some benefit in participating with the entire region instead of the citizens of Fayetteville funding the entire effort.
 and I see that benefit in this plan. Is it the perfect plan? Probably not. We agree it's flawed. But much of life is flawed. We have to make do with what we have, and this is what we have right now. So I'd like to see us pass it. It's recommended by our staff. We depend on Mr. Nyander to tell us what's good for our city, and we should support our staff for that purpose. But more than that,
 It is inclusive of the entire region in the plan, and that helps save our citizens money and gives us the opportunity to work to make the plan better. If we just say, no, we're not going to do it, we may lose our seat at the table, and I don't want that to happen. Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Who else? Okay. Don. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to add a couple of comments because I think –
 Ms. Turk has brought up some very good points in discussions with the Mayor and with Tim. I think the important part of our participation in this contract is that there's business ethical requirements of lawyers to not represent against their clients' interests.
 And for us to be a part of having our concerns expressed, we need to be at the table paying the client. And that's given us this opportunity to address these items. I think the other item I would say is that we're listening very closely to the public comment. We had the most recent public session.
 as well as we're listening very closely to our water provider, Beaver Water District, and their concerns, which have been articulated very clearly, things that relate to ratio and our pristine streams, the analysis of projects, things that are important to Fayetteville citizens. Thank you.
 So the other item is that this advocacy that this firm does also takes this all the way through, I guess, every approval chain, the governor's office, ADEQ. And we believe it's important to be very engaged in that process. The alternative is that we can...
 do it on our own, hire our own attorney, have our own opinion, but we think we can have more influence and share the bill with this particular approach. And that doesn't mean that we're acquiescing to the concerns.
 This will be the first opportunity that we have written public comment in this period to really be able to respond and support some of the things that we've been advocating all along. And I might remind the council that when we advocated at the state level for the passage of this legislation with our environmentalist support,
 one of the things that were talked about was that the devil was not in passing the legislation. It's in writing the regulatory requirements for this. And that's where we have to stay very engaged to make sure that –
 We benefit from it. I might also add that our concern about just as a city having certain minimum ratio requirements is that there may be projects that people are motivated to do just to get a credit when there are projects where we can get significant ratio improvements like the West Fork or the White River at the airport that we as a city did almost a million dollar project in partnership with AAC.
 ANRC, I believe. So these continue. I think the concerns are that point source people will be used to offset non-point source continued impact. And we're more regulated. What we're trying to do right now is learn a lot about this. Tim and his team and the resources available to us. It is a very...
 detailed item and something that we don't want to move forward with until a lot of these questions are answered. So I just want to make that point. The primary point, though, is if we don't participate in this contract, we don't have influence over what will be lobbied by the other three cities, and we'll be paying for that bill on our own, as opposed to participating and still having the ability to influence it and not let...
 interest against our interest be lobbied. Cut. I guess I'll direct this to either Don or Tim, whoever's appropriate. Besides just buying our seat at the table, do you feel like we are getting our money's worth from the representation? Thank you. Yes, I think we're getting our money's at the table because not only representation, but we're all getting to talk about the
 how our cities are. Fayetteville is very environmental, and we know that we want a regulation that absolutely provides for water quality improvement, and that's what we're looking for. But we do need the public input to help us look at everything, some of the things that a small group can't always think about. So I think this is a great process, and I think it's going to go very well.
 And you said it's contingent on unanimous approval by all the cities involved. What's the status in the other cities? They all three have passed it on. So we're the last ones? Yes. Okay. Well, here we are. All right. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Adele? I second that motion. All right. Any final comments from the council? Yes.
 I do want to say this is not an endorsement of what we've been presented with, but it is a commitment that we want to be involved as we move forward. And so that's how I'm looking at this on my vote, because I certainly do see that there are problems with the current policy.
 information that we've been provided with. Thank you. I'm having computer problems up here. Okay. All right. Any other final comments? Oh, God. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? That's what I've got on my screen. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. But I don't have a screen. Okay. There it goes. Okay. All right.
 Thank you all. All right, number eight, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,800,600 to fund the citywide 2018 employee compensation adjustment and to approve an updated police and fire pay plan grant. Paul.
 Mayor and Council, we had an expanded discussion at the agenda session last week where I tried to present what I thought the scenarios may look like and what could happen as far as paying for the plan over time.
 Tonight I'd like to introduce the issue. Remember, in the pay plan this year, which we annually present, the mayor's recommended pay plan to the council, we've got two elements this year. What I would call the annual program, which provides for step for the sworn personnel. They have 10 steps. They increase the step each year until they top. And salaries for the merit people increase
 They progress in their range based on performance up to a maximum of 4%. That's 4% potential increases based on this plan. The other element we discussed last year. Periodically, we do a pay plan. We look at the salary structure for police, fire, and merit employees as we did in 2017. As you remember, last year we discussed this issue.
 The pay plan came back, indicated to us that the sworn personnel fire was behind about 11% of what was felt they should be on comparable cities in that study. And police were behind about 15% at that point in time. When we looked at it, dollarized it, would have taken roughly $4 million at that point in time.
 to implement that plan. We couldn't do that at that time. We came forward to the council, and the mayor recommended a plan to implement that over a four-year period. Subsequent to that, we had a compensation study or a compensation group.
 subcommittee, I should say, of the council with four council members and the mayor as chairman, staffed by myself, HR representatives from Merritt Police and Fire.
 We discussed a lot of issues at that point in time moving forward. We discussed the changes of what should be the legitimate markets to be analyzed. We discussed whether or not we should look at benefits in that plan. And we made some changes which were presented to the council with recommendations were approved by the council. With all that said, consistently, the mayor has indicated...
 Certainly the members of that committee indicated that we wanted to do as much as possible for police and fire. So we looked at it very, very hard.
 tried to see what the max we thought we could do at this point in time to implement that 2017 study. The mayor is recommending that instead of 25% of that study, which would have been 25% over a four-year period this year, he's recommending we implement 50% of that study. Just that study alone will equate to about $700,000 in police and fire to get that range up.
 The other $750,000 this year in PAC is the step or annual raises, step four police and fire and merit based on performance for the other departments, the other workers here in the city.
 The total cost of that plan will be $1.4 million this year. Total impact of that next year will be roughly $1.8 million. Remember, we implement 3 quarters this year and 1 quarter next year. So moving on, that's a $2 million impact just in the general fund moving forward. We thought this was aggressive, however,
 The mayor was very, very clear that he wanted to do what he felt the maximum. What he wanted to recommend to you was the maximum for police and fire. We've been hearing that from the council also. So that's what the recommendation is. Now if we look at citywide, the cost of the plan will be roughly $1.8 million. Citywide, $2.5 million full impact over time. As we discussed at the agenda session, this is aggressive.
 I looked at sales tax. We have to remember sales tax is 60% of the revenue coming into the general fund, roughly $27 million on a $45.5 million budget, so we have to concentrate and look at that.
 my projection is if we had about five percent increases over the next three years we could find it at that point up time including normal I'll normal annual salary increases and we go into reserves in the 22 and a half million dollar range I think that's reasonable plan now we've averaged four and a half percent so we've averaged a little behind that last five years but
 The mayor is willing to recommend this pay increase. We feel that we certainly can fund this. There are other options for us as we go forward. There's other revenue sources that may increase. And we'll make adjustments if we need to. But we think it's a workable plan. We're recommending it to you.
 And again, as we've heard from the council, they want to do the max we could for sworn personnel. And as Lionel indicated at the last meeting, he felt it was time to invest in the salaries of the city, specifically police and fire. And I'm sure you all have some comments on this, Lionel, but I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay.
 What public comment do we have? Good evening, Mayor. Leonard Graves. I'm here representing the Paternal Order of Police. First of all, I want to thank you, Mayor, and the council members that sat on that salary survey committee for your time input and most of all your listening ear. I know sometimes it seemed like we were doing a lot of talking, but you stuck in there and held out with us, and I appreciate that and for your support.
 When we started that, echoing what Mr. Becker said, we started that committee to look for viable funding for those recommended raises. We may not have had the magic wand, but I'm pleased that that committee was able to accomplish other objectives such as defining our true market, such as laying the groundwork for a benefit study, and going through to look at the salary philosophy, pay philosophy for the city. Those are some of the milestones that we had with that committee.
 It was extremely important to us in our organization because it allowed us to feel that we had some input. We felt included. It gave us an opportunity for open dialogue. I stand before you today because I've heard the discussions of this dissolving of this committee. I just encourage you to continue this committee, to have those open discussions, to allow us all to move forward and work as a viable solution for pay compensation in the City of Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello, this is Jimmy Vandier with the Fayetteville Firefighters Association. I want to thank the council members and the mayor for participating. Last year we asked for this committee. I echo what he said. There were some milestones. One of the greatest things that we accomplished was the line of communication. We learned from the council some of your objectives and your concerns with pay and priorities within the city. I think that you understood some of our concerns.
 With our pay and benefit package and things like that, I'd like for you to support this resolution from the mayor to improve this. I think it will help us with recruitment and retention within the fire department. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. Anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's your thoughts, questions? Okay.
 Thank you. Yeah, quick question, maybe for Paul. Will we have concluded the next round of pay studies prior to this time next year? Sure. Yes, we will. Okay. That will be specifically addressing police and fire, Matthew. Understood. The year after that, we'll address fire. Right. Thank you. And, yes, we'll get input from everybody, fire and police. All right.
 sir i'd like to move that we approve the resolution okay mark i'd like to second i'd like to second that all right oh good i want to thank the folks that served on that committee and on the staff i want to thank the fire and police that also uh was on that committee as well there was a lot of good discussion there but i know i served on the first paid committee and then i got to serve on the second one and uh those can be lengthy and uh and uh
 Everybody can get real, real, real quick. But it was a good committee, and we crashed out a lot of stuff, and we're going to continue to do that. We're going to get everybody's input as we go forward. So I want to thank the council, and this was not a particularly easy decision for me because, well, you make a mistake, it can cost you. And I'm doing a little bit,
 of this is somewhat, I guess you would say, of a leap of faith or a little bit of risk. But you know what? We've got folks in our city that put their lives on the line every day for us, and they work at some sort of risk. So I'm willing to risk something for them as well.
 So we're going to stretch it out there a little further. We'll see what happens. We'll look at it again next year. And if it don't work out, then I will be the first one to come back and say we're going to have to make some tough decisions. But I am believing for the best. But in all things, not everything always works out like you planned. But, you know, sometimes you just got to take that.
 I always tell folks sometimes I'll throw ten things out there if they hit on three. I'm in the baseball hall of fame. So there will be three good ones. So I believe we will. All right. With that, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Maybe. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Adela, you had...
 You had a motion to reconsider something? Yes, sir. I want to file a motion to reconsider the change of zoning for the Jones property at Township and Crossover.
 We always like win-win situations, and I think that this would be a win-win. I have learned that Mr. Jones has made an offer to use the property for residential purposes, and that happened just in the last two weeks.
 I know that you all remember that we had many, many citizens who came to speak wanting it to stay residential. And as I observed, all of the property around this acreage is residential. And we also know that only...
 less than half a mile west of this property there is more commercial property lots and lots of commercial property available and um so i think it's um it it was residential when mr jones brought bought it which i think is significant and um i think that um
 Of course, Councilmember Tenet was not here and didn't get to vote on it two weeks ago, and I was hoping he would be here today. But it's just real significant to me, I think, to keep this area residential. And so I would like to reconsider. I would like to bring forth a motion to reconsider our vote to rezone this property. Okay, so that's your motion, and you'll need a second.
 to reconsider, correct? That's correct. Needs a second. And if there is a second, then it's a by majority vote of the president here, but that would require five votes since your count is part of the quorum. All right. Do we have a second? I just have a question. I have a... Well, I mean... Can we discuss it without a second? This is regarding our UDC. Okay.
 Not the motion. It doesn't matter. Oh, go ahead, Mark. I can wait. All right. Do we have a second? Yeah, it's not supposed to be discussed without a second. Well, that's, I mean, that's what I was going to do. But, you know, I'm not going to tell you you can't talk either. Well, that's true. I'm not going to bring to it. We've had a very nice evening so far. I'm not going to. I don't seem to have a second.
 Without a second, then the motion reconsidered will fail. Okay. Thank you. All right. You're welcome, Bill. All right. That concludes our business. Do you want to ask any questions about the UDC now? Well, this is just a question, a hypothetical question. All right.
 In the current zoning that we rezoned it to, it can be residential. Yes, you should probably ask our planner. So if there's a residential offer, then we're not impeding...
 business moving forward because it can be residential. Yes, Council Member Kish. From single family through... That's what I wanted to be sure of actually before I voted, but a clarification. So it can be residential. That's what I wanted to know. And maybe it will. Okay. What announcements do we have?
 We have got several announcements tonight. Matthew, could you come to the podium, please? Garner asked that I announce that Matthew K. was appointed as our Fayetteville Building Safety Director. Good.
 Matthew was serving in the interim role while we had a departure of the prior director and has been selected with an external posting and interview process to serve in that role now in a non-interim status. And before joining the City of Fayetteville, Matthew gained experience in the private sector, is the director of the Northwest Arkansas Office for Allison Architecture Incorporated. He also served on the Fayetteville Housing Authority and the Fayetteville Planning Commission.
 He's a licensed architect and holds a Bachelor of Science in Architecture from the Fay Jones School of Architecture. And his license also is a plumbing, HVACR, electrical inspector. And so we're pleased to have him leading our building safety division. So to make that announcement, thank you. Thank you, Don. Before Matthew leaves, I might just make sure the council understands.
 THAT THIS POSITION IS, I THINK, ONE OF THE HARDEST POSITIONS TO FILL IN CITY GOVERNMENT. IT TAKES A UNIQUE SKILL SET OF PEOPLE SKILLS. IT'S VERY CLOSE TO WHERE FOLKS DO THEIR BUSINESS AND WHERE THEY LIVE. AND IT REQUIRES AN OUTSTANDING TECHNICAL BACKGROUND, KNOWING THE BUILDING CODE AND KNOWING BUILDING PRACTICES. I WAS RECRUITING FOR THIS POSITION IN A
 Former job I had, and I went out three times. I twice rejected all the applicants. You can't imagine how happy we were that we had an outstanding candidate, not only in terms of his qualifications, but also his work performance. So we're real pleased that Matthew joined us. Thank you, Gardner.
 Well, and I look forward to working with you. I've known several of you for many years, and I look forward to working with all of you. If there's anything I can ever do to help, you know where to find me. Thank you. I also want to remind the citizens that this Saturday, April the 7th, from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., we have our second bulky waste cleanup taking place today.
 This has a Ward 2 location and the city's recycling and trash facility on 1560 South Happy Hollow Road. Just to remind citizens that you're allowed to bring couches, chairs, mattresses, washers, dryers, hot water heaters, plumbing fixtures, refrigerators, stoves, lawnmowers, carpet, vinyl flooring, drywall, paneling, limited amounts of...
 that are associated with single or homeowners, not contractors. I guess I'll say it that way. And what is not allowed is household garbage, commercial garbage, medical waste, dirt, rocks, leaves, and grass or yard waste, and household hazardous items such as battery solvents. There are programs for those. They're just not a part of this particular bulky waste. But Saturday, April 7th, is the next cleanup.
 And the Ward 2 location is Woodland Junior High School and the city's recycling and trash facility.
 We also have sidewalk improvements going on. So there's a closed section of East Dixon Street. The city's transportation division is replacing a section of a deteriorated sidewalk along the north side of East Dixon Street between Washington and Willow Avenues. And it requires closing that section of the road during the work hours of 7 to 3.30 on weekdays. So we just want people to be able to plan for alternative detour routes. That project is...
 started last week and goes approximately four weeks. The city of Fayetteville was also honored as a 2017 Tree City USA, and there are new tree plantings that will be taking place in Wilson Park. This was announced by our urban forester, so I want to congratulate the city again. National Arbor Day is celebrated every year on the last Friday in April in the United States, and Fayetteville continues to be a tree city.
 The City is also seeking nominations for our 2018 Historic Preservation Awards. So if you have historic preservation projects that you think would be great and to recognize those individuals doing those projects, you can go to the City's website. We're seeking nominations for those awards today.
 As well as we're seeking artist proposals for utility box art program. If you've seen those around town, there are new locations. A utility box on the southwest corner of North College and Sunbridge Drive.
 on the northwest corner of North Gregg Avenue and Sycamore Street and a utility box on the southwest corner of North Street and Garland Avenue. So if you're an artist interested in showcasing your talents, the city is currently taking proposals for those locations.
 Fayetteville residents are invited to join in on the park strategic planning process. Imagine Tomorrow's Parks is the theme for the city. There is a list of public input sessions for citizens to give us their input on what they would like to see in the park system. This Thursday, April the 5th, is the Park
 is the first one. It's at 4.30 through 7 p.m. at Holt Middle School out in our Ward 4 area. And Sunday, April the 8th from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Fanville Public Library in a Ward 2 location. There are many of these. We'll be announcing them each week as they come forward, but they're also on a news item on the city's website.
 if citizens want to look at those. They don't have to attend the entire time. It's a drop-in, give your feedback, information, things that you would like to see. Or if you want to sit there for the full two-hour time period, you're welcome to do that as well and continue to provide that information. Those are the announcements tonight, Mayor. Anyone else?
 Mr. Mayor, about 30 minutes before this meeting started, I filed the city's brief in response to the Attorney General's appeal. Several months ago, the Attorney General had filed motions to preliminarily enjoin the Civil Rights Ordinance, the Uniform Protection of Civil Rights Ordinance.
 We won that at the Circuit Court, but then the Attorney General has appealed that, and so they filed their brief about a month ago, and so now it's my turn, and we have filed our brief right before this meeting. And in three weeks I have another brief to file because I also moved to quash the subpoenas where I wanted to question a couple of the sponsors of the state law.
 And we also wanted to have a little bit of discovery requesting documents that the state might have. And the Attorney General's position was we can't ask the legislators anything, not even, I guess, whether they made a public statement to the press, whether they tweeted out on the night that this was being debated about how they were going to pass a bill that would undo laws like this.
 So, that's now going to be before the Supreme Court also, and so that brief is due in about three weeks. So, I might be a little slow getting back to you all because these are major projects that I have to do, and you know, forty pages basically. And so, I did want you to know that I'm on track with the first one, our preliminary injunction, and I think we have good grounds to show that there has been no harm caused to anyone by this.
 Neither the plaintiffs nor the Attorney General cited any person that had ever been harmed by the enforcement of our ordinance over the last two and a half years. So one of the things they're supposed to show on the preliminary injunction is that there will be an irreparable harm if it's not enjoined. And so I think we have a very strong argument that there is no irreparable harm that has been caused to anyone because of our ordinance. Thank you.
 But I'll keep you informed of that. I'll send a copy of my argument to you all, even though it is about 30 pages itself, and so you don't have to read it, but I'm going to send it to you anyway. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. Thank you all. Good work. We're adjourned.