I'd like to call the meeting of the City Council to order for April 7th, 2020. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Here. Smith? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, that went well. Okay, I want to welcome everyone. And in light of the current health concerns,
 Federal City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk-Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker and two representatives from Federal's IT Department.
 City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the Council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal, and we have provided many ways to participate in our View Tonight's meeting
 including contacting City Council members, City Clerk's office, or City staff prior to the meeting, viewing through Federal's Government Channel online, or the City's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Instructions are currently shown on screen. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand.
 We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment, which staff will monitor. Now let's begin.
 All right, first order of business we have tonight is Paul Becker's monthly financial report. Paul, would you like to give that?
 I would, Mayor. This report is for the month of February. So it's before a lot of these situations hit. But I want to report through February, the city was very strong. Revenues were up almost 5% at that point in time. Sales tax were 5% over the budget. Franchise fees were pretty strong. Building permits were pretty similar to what they were last year.
 So the general fund had been doing very well in revenue through the period of February of this year Street fund it's up about ninety thousand dollars. Most of that was driven by the half-cent statewide gasoline tax So the street fund that was pretty strong through February the parking fund was up and
 they were up about three thousand dollars which is about one percent fines were up excuse me fees were up fines were down during that period parks development was up four percent now remember those are hmr taxes uh they were up four percent through the month of february
 Water and sewer fees were up almost 6% to that period of time, driven about 3% increase in usage. 3% because of the annual increase that goes in effect.
 The trash and recycling was actually down. Pull charges were down for the period, so we were down there. It's just about 6% during the period. However, that doesn't concern me too much at this point in time. That was under budget by that percentage. Airport was up. Actually, the sales were...
 25% for fuel over the budget, associated costs were increased for the expenses for the cost of that fuel, but they were strong at that point in time. So through the month of February, we had been very strong on a revenue sense. Again, we're going to start seeing the results of the virus and things that had slowed down, but I really won't get a feel of that.
 until May or probably June, because June is going to show the full impact of April. Part of March was pretty strong. So I'll be happy to entertain any questions at this point in time. What questions do we have in the council? All right, let's move along to the next item, number two.
 We have an award of financial reporting achievement for Paul Becker and his team from the finance department. Paul, you might show them the award. I will be happy to, Mayor.
 Now, I want the council and the public to understand something. This is the 31st year in a row that we have won this award. So this is a great tribute to Paul and his team and all the finance directors before him. And this is a tremendous accomplishment. And thank you, Paul, very much for your work and your team's work. Well, thank you.
 But I would like to say, Mayor, that this award is really on behalf of the accounting department. Marsha Hartwick, who is my accounting manager, works very hard, as does all of her department. They've done yeoman work.
 workmanship on getting your financial statements to be presented for this award. And I would certainly like to recognize and thank them for their fantastic efforts on behalf of the city. All right. Thank you, Paul. All right. Let's move along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 16, 2020, Special City Council Meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $11,294, recognizing Hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. Number three, a resolution to authorize an agreement with Cross Church Corporation for acquisition of a water sewer easement
 required for utility relocations associated with the Arkansas Department of Transportation I-49 and Weddington Interchange project. Number four.
 A resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $33,825 to Matthew and Frankie Cheadle for water damage claim arising at 329 East Sycamore Street.
 Number five, a resolution to approve the reallocation of the 2018 Community Development Block Grant funds in the amount of $112,000 to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute the compliance acknowledgements and to approve budget adjustment. Number six,
 a resolution to award RFQ 20-01 and approve the purchase of on-call surveying services from McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated as primary provider and Olson Associates as the secondary provider based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2020.
 Number seven, a resolution to award RFQ 20-01 and to authorize the purchase of on-call materials, testing services from McClellan Consulting Engineers, Incorporated as primary supplier and GTS, Incorporated as secondary supplier based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2020. And number eight, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to convey a 175 foot square
 square foot temporary construction easement along Highway 16 to the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the Highway 16-Weddington Drive Interchange project. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the consent agenda as read.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Just as clarification, I have Sonia Gutierrez and then Bunch. Yes. Is that correct? Yes. Thanks, Chair. Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much.
 Let's go to unfinished business. Okay, number one on unfinished business. An ordinance to approve a commercial plant zoning district entitled CEPZD19-6952 for approximately 8.60 acres located at 5102 West Weddington Drive to allow the development of many storage units, accessory office and retail space. Garner, I believe there has been a new development on this. Yes, Mayor.
 I did get an email from the applicant's representative requesting that you withdraw this item. I think you typically handle withdrawal requests with an indefinite postponement. Okay, so a table indefinitely. So we need a motion to second to table indefinitely of this item. I move to table. Sloan? I move to table indefinitely. All right, do we have a second?
 All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Moving along to number two.
 An ordinance in Act 114.20, regulation of single-use disposable bags provided by large food stores. Teresa, do you have this one? You have this one, correct? I do. Thank you, Mayor. Given the nature of what we're going through right now with the pandemic, I would like to table this.
 I don't know how long we can table it. If we could table it for two months, that would be my recommendation, my request. We can do that. Can't we, Kit? Yeah, so it would be, I guess, the first meeting in June? Yes, that would be great. Okay. So your motion is to table for two months. Is that correct, Teresa? Yes, that is. Do we have a second? Second. Who has the second on that? Okay.
 Kyle, we'll let you second that one too. Okay, I'll take it. Okay. All right, we have a motion to second. So any discussion on this? So the motion is to table it for two months. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Kenyon? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Brown? Yes. Brown? Yes. Brown? Yes. Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown? Brown
 Thank you all very much. Moving along to number three, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve the purchase of two analyzers and four sludge level detection assemblies from Hatch Company for the Nolan and Wayside Water Resource Recovery Facilities in the total amount of $56,943 plus applicable taxes and freight charges.
 It's just it's just new business now. No, it's old business, but I think it's the first time we've heard. Okay, we haven't read it before then Okay, whereas the current analyzers are used Approximately ten years old and are obsolete whereas purchasing these items from Hachi or hatch company would ensure Standardization and interchangeability with a hatch equipment currently in use in these facilities now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby fines the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of two analyzers and four sludge-level detection assemblies from Hatch Company in the amount of $56,943 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges. Tim, I believe you have this. Thank you, Mayor. Tim Niner, Utilities Director.
 The Nolan wastewater plant utilizes a phosphorus analyzer and an ammonia analyzer to track the effectiveness of the treatment process in molting phosphorus and ammonia. They are used so that operators can react if levels are approaching permanent limits or indicate other developing issues in the treatment process. The existing analyzers at the Nolan plant are both approximately 10 years old, require frequent maintenance due to their age, and are often out of service.
 The Nolan and the Westside treatment plants are both designed with four clarifiers units that capture settable solids following the biological treatment process. The depth of this concentrated layer of credible solids, known as the clarifier blanket, is monitored using sludge-level probes.
 The NOAA facility is currently equipped with four newer sludge level probes. Comparatively, the west side operation due to hydraulic design differences typically maintain a lower blanket less than one foot. However, precipitation events that create high flows have highlighted the need for sludge level detection during times of high flow operations.
 The processes flow reach high levels of at least four to five times the normal flow. The sludge level probes play an important role in monitoring and quickly communicating real-time with SCADA the elevated clarifier blanket depths. This allows time for the appropriate process adjustments to be implemented to prevent using, to prevent compliance issues. The Hawk Equipment Company has given two quotes on this.
 The quote for the phosphorus and ammonia analyzers is $33,503. The quote for the sludge blankets are $23,440 for a total of $56,943. The estimated freight and taxes would bring it to a not to exceed price of $63,744.84.
 Funds are available within the plant pumps and equipment account with the water and sewer fund. And this item was presented to the water sewer and solid waste committee on February 11th, 2020 with a four nothing vote reported to the council for full consideration. Be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Okay. Now we will take some public comment on this and here's the rules for public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 there's a five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic and uh i don't want any rude behavior and uh i would like your name and address so who would like to be first to speak to us from the public any public comments okay let's bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council this is an ordinance i move that we accept the ordinance
 You want to suspend the rule? Second reading. Go to the second reading, yes. Okay, do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 In order to waive competitive bidding and approve the purchase of two analyzers and four sludge level detection assemblies from Hatch Company for the Nolan and Westside water resource recovery facilities in the amount of $56,943 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. So, which is the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Chair?
 in order to waive competitive bidding and approve the purchase of two analyzers and four sludge level detection assemblies from Hatch Company for the Nolan and Westside water resource recovery facilities in the total amount of $56,943 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Okay, any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to vacate a portion of right-of-way from Front Street to Joyce Boulevard for the Sane Street Extension Project. Kip?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit C attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Garner, I believe you have this one. Yes, Mayor, I do. Let me see if I can share a screen here.
 Can you all see that now? Yes. Yes, we can. Mayor and council, this is to facilitate the construction of a connection between Vantage Drive and Front Street or College Avenue. I had a map made to illustrate both this agenda item and the next agenda item. This project was started in 2015.
 It was authorized by city council several times to seek federal funding. It's a federal aid project. It's 20% federal money. I mean 80% federal money and 20% local. The local match was 2006 bond issue and then the construction will be 2019 bond issue.
 The road has been designed, went to the Transportation Committee for their review, and we're now getting the right of way. And here's where the complicated part comes. We were busy acquiring the right of way and then we discovered that we own some right of way that we didn't need, which is this agenda item, which is in yellow.
 and there was a vacation attempt in 1983 to where there was a previous project to make this connection a little different route and it was abandoned and it and right away it was vacated but it had a condition on it that they had we had the property owner had to construct this roundabout
 Well, they never constructed yet. So what we ended up doing was get an agreement. The property owner was very cooperative and worked with us. We have an agreement that the appraised value of the yellow and the red on this property is traded for the right of way we need and blue here it saves the city about $200,000.
 so this project is now designed and it's scheduled to start construction later uh later this year we hope to get it underway in 2020. uh be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have from the council okay all right let's take some public comment on this and everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute limit unless
 The City Council by majority vote gives you more time or if City Council has questions for you stay on topic I don't want any rude behavior and please give us your name or address our name and address. I'm sorry So who would like to be first? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes to council? This is an ordinance I'm sorry
 This one's been on our agenda and tabled once. Are we on the second or third reading right now? No, we're not on it. We tabled all these, Kyle, at the special city council meeting. This is the first time it's really been heard. So this is the first reading? This is the first reading. Thank you. In that case, I'll motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And ordinance to vacate a portion of right of way from Front Street to Joyce Boulevard for the Sain Street Extension Project. So what's the wishes of the council? First, to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. All right. You got that carried. All right.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sarah would you please tell them? Herk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And in order to vacate a portion of right of way from Front Street to Joyce Boulevard for the Sane Street Extension Project. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, Kara, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Marsh? Kenyon? She's giving a thumbs up and nodding. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Number five, the ordinance to amend ordinance number 2883 by removing the requirement to construct a cul-de-sac at the end of Sain Street. Kit? Whereas on December 21st, 1982, the Fayetteville Board of Directors approved ordinance number 2883, which vacated a portion of the right-of-way for Sain Street between North Front Street and Joyce Boulevard.
 And whereas section three of this ordinance required the construction of a cul-de-sac at the end of Zane Street as a condition of abandoning the right-of-way, but the cul-de-sac was never constructed.
 Whereas as one of the city's current bond projects the same street extension between Front Street and Joyce Boulevard Is under design in accordance with the master street plan with a different alignment So as the issue of the old right-of-way quarter not being legally abandoned needs to be corrected to facilitate new right-of-way Acquisition and construction of the project now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines to, hereby says Ordinance Number 2883 by removing Section 3, or amends Ordinance Number 2883 by removing Section 3 as shown on Exhibit A attached here too. In Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit B, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Okay, Garner, I believe you have this one. Garner, are you there? Okay. Garner, we've lost your video and your audio. But we have this graphic. Yes, we do. So what do you all think? Can you hear me now? Yeah, there we go. This is a companion item. It just simply removes the condition that allows this vacation to go into effect. That, uh...
 what the vacation happened in 1983 but by removing the condition it now becomes vacated. Okay But good with that we have any questions from the council's garden Okay, now we take some comment from the public and again, here's the rules everybody gets one turn to speak There's five minute time limit unless City Council by majority vote gives you more time or if the City Council has questions for you stay on topic and
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. And who would like to be first on that? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 2883 by removing the requirements to construct a cul-de-sac at the end of Sain Street. And I should note that in section one there was a scrivener's error. We forgot to put amends in there where it says that you hereby amend ordinance number 2883 and I will correct that when this goes into the final drafting for the mayor to sign.
 This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Turke? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 2883 by removing the requirement to construct a cul-de-sac at the end of Sain Street. Do we have any final comments from the council? Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Moving along to number six, a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council to limit public comments to three minutes
 each and recognize statutory reading requirement for ordinances may be dispensed with single motion to suspend or dispense with the rule uh kyle i believe this is at the ordinance review committee and i think it came out of there and it's uh matthew was going to work with the city attorney to draft something to take back is that correct
 Yes, Mayor. At our previous ordinance review meeting, we had decided we wanted to have one more, and we thought we had time to do it again before coming back to this meeting. But life changed a little bit since then. So my understanding is we need a little more time to work on this. And so I would ask that we table this at least two weeks. And if we can figure out how to schedule that meeting,
 given our current situation that would be all. Okay, so you're making the motion to take it for two weeks. Do we have a second? Mayor, rather than making the motion, Councilmember Petty may have, since this was his item, he may have something else to say. Okay, Matthew do you want to chime in? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Councilmember Smith. I was just going to suggest that we table it for eight weeks. Actually, maybe longer than we need, but it matches.
 what we the period of time that we tabled the the single-use plastic bag ordinance earlier in the agenda. I second that. So Matthew you would like to table it for two months or eight weeks? Yes, Mayor, the first meeting in June and I'll make that as a motion. Okay and Kyle you're seconding that? Second, yes. Do we have any discussion on that? Okay. Karen would you please call the roll? Tuerk? Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to number seven. An ordinance to enact Article 10, Pedal Carriages into Chapter 117, Vehicle-Related Businesses.
 Devin, I'm sorry, Kit, you have it. Okay, I can put it on the first reading. Whereas a local entrepreneur approached city staff seeking the right to operate a pedal carriage business in the core of Fayetteville, and whereas city staff worked with city departments to craft proposed rules and a zone of operation for the pedal carriage business.
 And whereas the item was presented to the City Council Transformation Committee on February 25, 2020, which unanimously forwarded the proposed ordinance to the full City Council with a recommendation of approval. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts Article 10, Pedal Carriages and Chapter 117, Vehicle-Related Businesses of the Fayetteville City Code, as shown in Exhibit A, attached here to and made a part hereof. Okay, Devin. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council Members. For those at home, my name is Devin Howland. I'm the Director of Economic Vitality for the City of Fayetteville.
 Council members, we are requesting that you table this item for an additional two weeks. I have spoken with the original applicant who wanted this, and we are going to work with her over the next two weeks to talk about a path forward. And the timing is more appropriate with social distancing, et cetera. So we're asking it to be tabled for two weeks. Okay. So you're asking it to be tabled for two weeks. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion do we have? Do we have any questions for Devin on this? No.
 do we want to table it for longer than two weeks we can if that's the wishes of the council um we had looked at enacting this ordinance would not allow the legal operation of pedal carriages in the city of Fayetteville there's a separate license that actually has to come back before you before an operator would be allowed to operate and so this is just crafting the rules and so we're most certainly not going to think about bringing a license forward with what's going on with COVID
 But that is something that I discussed with the applicant to just table it for two weeks. But whatever the weeks of the council are, we'll want it. Okay, thank you. Are there changes that you anticipate making in those two weeks? Or is it just the current state of affairs? Current state of affairs, Councilor Smith. Could we just leave it here on the first reading then? And that would have the same effect, but when we come back to it in two weeks, we'll be on the second reading?
 If that's the wishes of the council, that's fine with us. We don't wanna look like also that we're moving it forward as to that we're not presenting it tonight either. And so I do wanna respect our public who might want all three items to comment on that. So it might be best to just leave it here. Okay, any other questions? Okay, since we're leaving it on the first reading, I think I'm gonna take some public comment then since we're not tabling. So everybody gets one turn to speak
 you have a five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior and please give us your name and address is there anyone like to comment on this okay bring it back to the council so we just leave it on the first reading we go to the next item okay number eight a resolution to prove the 2020 marriage staff pay and benefits study
 report prepared by the Johansen Group and to adopt the 2020 marriage staff pay plan structure. Paul. Mayor, we are requesting that this item be tabled indefinitely. We do not intend to recommend
 the compensation plan to be implemented. And I will have a few remarks when we come to the employee compensation implementation plan. We are asking that this be tabled at this time, because we're not in a position to implement the plan.
 Okay, and to follow up with that, with what we're seeing in the economy right now, I'm a little bit concerned about moving forward a pay plan without knowing exactly what we're going to see in the next at least probably two to three months.
 So, Paul, would you? Mayor, since we're going to discuss that, I'd like to make a couple of comments so everybody understands what the position is. If the council will remember when the plan was discussed and presented to the council, and I did recommend that we implement the plan, and the mayor recommended that we implement the plan,
 Remember that was based on the general fund especially going into a reserve potentially going to a reserve position and Basing it on that there was a good Optimistic feeling that we would exceed the budgeted revenue estimates at that point of time the conditions currently in place because of the coronavirus and the shutdown on a temporary basis and
 We do not feel it's responsible at this point in time to come through and request its implementation because of the uncertainty of the revenue at this point in time. That's why the recommendation is to table it at this point in time indefinitely. So what questions do we have from council on this? Okay, I will entertain a motion to table this indefinitely at this time. So moved. Do we have a second? Second.
 We have a motion and second to table indefinitely. So any final comments from the council? Council, we're going to look at this in another three months, and we'll just see where we are. I just don't feel comfortable right now bringing forth a raised package and not knowing exactly what the economy is going to do. So when I do feel comfortable, we'll bring something back. So do we have any other comments? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,322,000 to facilitate the citywide 2020 employee compensation adjustment.
 Paul, you have anything you want to add to that? Mayor, I think we've been very clear because of the uncertainty of the revenue and what direction things may take, what we may have to do in the future. At this point in time, we are recommending that that be tabled. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions if there are. OK. Is there any questions? And I will entertain a motion to table indefinitely this item as well. So moved. Second.
 Did you get that, Kara? I believe that was Smith and Scroggins. Smith and Scroggins. Okay. All right. Any final comments from the council on that one? Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. All right, moving along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-6984 for approximately 2.25 acres located at 2160 North Crossover Road from R.O. Residential Office to C.S. Community Services
 And from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to NSG, neighborhood services general. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.O. Residential Office to C.S. Community Services and from RSF-4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are to her by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville with elected zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner, I believe you have this. Yes, Mayor. Can you hear me? Yes. Good. Is it clear? Yeah. And the screen is shared successfully, right? Yes. Thank you.
 Mayor Kelso, this item is located north of Mission Boulevard and east of Crossover. Ozark Bank is on the south edge of it. It is basically vacant. It has been used recently for seasonal sales, such as mobile vendors and fireworks sales. The applicant originally requested that the C1 portion, the dark pink,
 and the RO portion, the light pink, B Zone Community Services. And they requested that the lot immediately to the north be zoned RO and a residential office. The Planning Commission suggested and the applicant accepted Neighborhood Services General for that law instead.
 As you'll recall, neighborhood services general only allows three-story buildings and allows a little broader list of uses and is a little bit more compatible with residential zoning, which is to the east and the north. So the request now has that gap, which remains zoned RO.
 We looked at the relationship to the adopted plan. It's designated residential and city neighborhood. It's also in the tier two which is the second largest mixed-use center in the
 City Plan 2040. As you'll recall, mixed-use centers were identified to promote walkability and eventually transit and the two of course go together. And they're also identified in the plan as the places where we would encourage a variety of uses and billing types. So the proposed zoning districts are in our view in conformance with the 2040 plan.
 The only issue that I'm aware of is what you want to do with that remaining RO gap. But with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe that Mr. Jorgensen representing the applicant is also online. Okay. Would the applicant like to say something to the council?
 Mayor, Mr. Jorgensen has raised his hand. He can be acknowledged. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Jorgensen. Hey, Mr. Mayor and City Council. How's everybody doing? Good. Good. Just real quick, I think Mr. Stoll addressed everything. We're good with recommendations of approval. I'm glad to answer any questions.
 Okay. What questions do we have from the council? I just want a real clear statement from Mr. Jorgensen that you do want the land that your owner owns, but was not included in your original application. You do want that rezoned also. Is that correct? Correct. Thank you. Could I ask how big an area that is? I mean, I've got 2.25 acres here. How much more would that be added to the 2.25 acres?
 You know, I think it's like a 70 by one. It's really not much on that far north end. Oh, just. Okay. All right. What questions do we have in council, Arvin?
 Garner or Mr. Jorgensen, either one, I'm looking at the zoning map in our exhibit A in our packet, and this may just be a map error, but there's a little strip of the C1 and RO pink on the east side of the boxes. Are we leaving an unusual thin strip between this and RSF4, or is this intended to go all the way to the current line?
 I'm trying to get the map back. Sorry. I should have asked that before you took it down. Yeah, I was kind of actually. The map you have. Not, not, not. Does this, this map work for you? That's the map I'm looking at. Yeah. Okay. And what was the question again? So the black box that indicates the area that we are rezoning. Yes. On the east side has, it doesn't go to the, to the boundary between the pink and the yellow. Oh, that's, that's a, that's a,
 That's a, I cut and paste this map. Okay. That's what caused that. But that's just a mapping error. That's not actually the way it's going to be left. Correct. Okay, thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, if I could, I did look at the, whether or not the city council had the authority to do this over land that was not originally included within the first application and going to the planning commission. And it looks like that you do have that authority. However, I would ask that you leave this on the first reading so that we can get a really good maps and a very accurate legal description of exactly what we're doing.
 and have that ready for you for the next meeting rather than trying to advance any changed ordinance at this point. However, I would like a motion if you want to make it that it would include that entire area
 to give us direction to go ahead and change the agenda packet to reflect what your motion would say, even though we won't have all the particulars of the motion, the exact amount of acreage and exactly where it is. But if you made that motion, the city council would make that motion and it was approved. Then we would know what exactly to present to you at the next meeting. Okay. Go ahead, Sloan. I assume I can make the motion before public comment. Yes, you could.
 Okay, I'll make the motion to make it contiguous. And second. So we have a motion and second to make it contiguous to what's already, to the 225, is that correct, Tom? Yeah, to fill in the void. Yep, okay, I'll be sure I got that. Okay. Mayor, can we clarify the motion? I'm sorry. Yeah, I wanna clarify, are we rezoning the gap as CS or as NSG?
 I think you want to rezone that community services. Okay. Is that what the applicant wanted as well and staff? I'm assuming, I don't know if Mr. Jorgenson is still on the phone, but it's certainly in terms of height and bulk is very similar to the RO. Okay. Then that'll be my motion. Thank you. And I'll still second. Okay. All right. To make it contiguous in the area would be CS zone.
 The amendment to make it that, right? Yes. Okay. Now that's the amendment. What discussion do we have from the council on the amendment? Okay. Let's get some public comment on this and this will be only on the amendment. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you. Stay on topic, no rude behavior and please give us your name and address. Now keep in mind public, this is only on the amendment. All right, who would like to be first? Okay, I will bring it back to the council. We don't seem to have any public comment on that. So Kit, what do we have here?
 The council can make further comments or they can vote on the amendment, leave it here on the first reading, and then Garner and I will work together and Blake to get a proper ordinance together and the correct exhibits. Okay. So is there any comments from the council? Any further? Otherwise, I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay the amendment passed and we'll have the amended ordinance to you at the next meeting. Okay we'll hold it right on, we'll hold it on the first reading. All right moving along to number two. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN
 20-6999 for approximately 0.67 acres located at 3509 East Huntsville Road from RSF4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre.
 and C1 neighborhood commercial to RSF4 residential single family four units parade. Kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and c1 neighborhood commercial to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay garner you have this one yes sir uh did i success successfully share i believe it did this is on uh east huntsville road
 It is a single lot that is occupied by a house that was built in 1961 and there's a sale pending. And the issue here is that half of this lot is on C1 and half of it is RSF4. So the applicant is simply requesting to rezone that to RSF4.
 uh which reflects its present use the plan is residential neighborhood area it encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density this is way out there so i don't know if we're looking for a lot of increased density um no issues were identified and planning commission staff recommend approval we happy to answer any questions
 I do believe Ms. Diane Palmer, the applicant, is online. OK. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Applicant needs to raise her hand. OK. OK. All right. Here she is. She has just raised her hand. Diane Palmer. OK. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. OK. Thank you. No, I don't have any questions unless you guys do. I appreciate your time. All right. Thank you. Any other public comments?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Any comments, questions from the council? What's wishes to the council? I move that we advance this to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Arsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition to RZN 20-6999 for approximately two-thirds of an acre located at 3509 East Huntsville Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre and C1 neighborhood commercial to RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre. Okay. What's the wishes to council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, described in rezoning petition RZN 20-6999 for approximately two-thirds of an acre located at 3509 East Huntsville Road from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre, and C1 neighborhood commercial to RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre. Okay. Third and final reading, what final comments do we have from the council? Okay.
 okay care which police calderon turk yes smith smith gutierrez yes yes marsh yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggen yes bunch yes okay thank you all number three an ordinance to approve vacation 20-7002
 for property located located northwest of drake street and gray avenue to vacate about 1.21 acres of general utility easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority, excuse me, under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described 1.21 acres of a general utility easement are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 the city council the city of fabel arcs i hereby vacates the general utility easement that's described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance is duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's agenda memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 Okay, Garner, I believe you have additional two. I do, Mayor. This is Simple Vacation. This pentagraph farm is undergoing master planning efforts. And as is common with large master plan important properties, plans change as
 a potential users change last year the applicant dedicated a 20-foot utility easement no utilities were built here but the plans changed potential important users changed and they're now requesting the vacated and they'll rededicate the needed utility easements
 with the new planting and planning process. So we're recommending approval of this vacation. I might just mention that the most interesting part of this application is that in 1922 to 1924, Noah Drake planted all these trees in a row. And I believe they were planted as walnut trees and grafted as pecan trees or the other way around. At least they're hybrids.
 but there's a wonderful 100 year old trees and this easement goes through the middle of them i just thought that might be interesting but uh staff and planning commission is recommending approval see here uh i i typically don't uh request uh applicants to attend there when uh when there's no issues about that i'm aware of okay james temple i'm not sure whether he's online or not
 What questions do we have from Garner from the council? Okay. Let's get some public comment. Okay. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to speak first? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Okay.
 Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Erin, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve DAC 20-70-02 for property located northwest of Drake Street and Greg Avenue to vacate about 1.21 acres of a general utility easement. Okay, this is an ordinance, and what's the wishes of the council? We move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Tara, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And ordinance approved VAC 20-70-02 for a property located northwest of Drake Street and Greg Avenue to vacate about 1.21 acres of a general utility easement. Okay, this is the third and final reading. Is there any final comments from the council? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Brown?
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, a resolution to approve an agreement with Food Loops LLC for the hauling of organic, compostable, and recyclable material. I believe you have this.
 Yes, Mayor. Good evening. I'm Ian Nearyngarden, Environmental Director for the City of Fayetteville. This is a franchise hauling agreement renewal between the City of Fayetteville and Food Loops LLC for the hauling of organic compostable, primarily food waste, and recyclables in the City of Fayetteville.
 Many, for those of you who are not familiar with Food Loops, they primarily service the event sector in Fayetteville and throughout much of northwest Arkansas by both providing collection of food waste at events and also recyclables at those events. They bring all of their food waste to our facility down at Happy Hollow and we mix that in with yard waste compost and make a usable soil amendment product out of it.
 and they have the ability to either bring their recyclables to us or recyclables that they collect outside the city they typically take to the recycling center up in Rogers. This is a renewal of an existing contract that we have had, a successful contract that we've had with Food Loops.
 It's a one year agreement with, I believe it is two additional one year terms as part of the agreement. Also including the agreement is a requirement that Food Loops pays a 5% fee on all food waste and recyclables that are collected in the city of Fayetteville. They also pay to tip or dump the food waste at our Happy Hollow facility based on a per tonnage rate.
 or food waste that they collect and bring to us. Be glad to answer any questions you all might have on this franchise agreement. What questions do we have? It's good to see you on site, Peter. Absolutely. I was inspired by Devin's photo and played around with him and got my own background going on. What questions do we have for Peter? Is that our actual compost bin at the...
 No, that's a photograph I took of a community compost bin in Portland, Oregon a couple years ago. I was just digging through some old photos, trying to find something relevant, and that was the first thing I found. So I thought you all might enjoy it. I don't have any actual other questions. Do we have any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by a majority vote, gives you more time, or if the City Council has questions for you, stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to speak first to the council? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move we pass the resolution. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number five.
 An ordinance to amend 111.30 Retail in Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages, for the Fibles of the City Code to provide for the issuance of permits that align with the Arkansas Statutes and Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrative Regulations. Kip? Whereas the State of Arkansas regulations on the sale of alcohol have been amended to allow many new types of retail alcohol permits with varying requirements.
 And whereas the ever-evolving state statutes and regulations make it difficult to administer our local permitting and taxation ordinances, and the administration should be provided with the flexibility to issue permits for local businesses to operate in accordance with state and local regulations. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 At the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, hereby enacts Section 111.30J as follows. Subsection J, other permits. The mayor or designee is authorized to issue a permit to an applicant who has received a permit from the State of Arkansas that does not conform with another permit type listed in this section.
 Number one, permit fee. The annual permit fee shall be paid by the applicant. The amount of the fee shall be one half of the license fee collected by the state of Arkansas. Any new permit issued pursuant to this subsection between January 1st and June 30th shall be at one fourth of the license fee collected by the state of Arkansas. No annual permit fee shall exceed the amount of $500. Subsection two, hours of operation.
 It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment permitted on this subsection to allow consumption of any controlled beverages on the premises of said establishment between the hours of 2 a.m. and 7 a.m. on any day or any other day or time prohibited by state law or the state-issued permit. Number three, supplemental beverage tax. In addition to the annual permit fees for the sale of controlled beverages and other applicable taxes,
 there's hereby levied a city supplemental beverage tax of five percent upon the annual gross proceeds or gross receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to this subsection wine beer light wine and malt liquors containing less than five percent alcohol by weight shall not be subject to the supplemental beverage tax
 The city supplemental beverage tax is in addition to the state supplemental tax and shall be paid to the appropriate city official, shall be due monthly at the same time that the state supplemental tax is due, and payments shall be accompanied by one copy of the state supplemental tax return. If any permittee shall fail to remit the supplemental tax within the time period that the state tax is due, a penalty of 12 percent of the tax shall be due and payable
 in addition to the tax. Mayor Jordan, we looked at the alcohol regulations that we had and all the different state permits that have been issued. And at this point, there are, I think, 45 different permits that can be issued by the state. And it's difficult to keep up with them all. We kept up with a lot of them. It took us two and a half pages to keep up with the first 18, I think it was, or 14 that we have.
 And so now under with less than half a page, I think, we're gonna be able to properly regulate and issue permits and tax all the remaining state tax permits that have been done by the state legislature. And hopefully that will be done in the future. So we think this is a good proposal to try to get this situation under control without using,
 pages and pages more of our city code all right thank you what questions do we have to get on this okay all right let's get some public comment on this okay everybody gets one turn to speak there's a five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address then the public would like to address this first
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes the council? I move please take this to the second reading Okay, we have a second Thanks there, all right We have a motion in the second second reading care. Would you please call the roll Turk? Yes Smith yes Gutierrez yes Marsh Marsh Inyan yes
 Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 And ordinance to amend section 11130, retail in chapter 111, alcoholic beverages of the city code provide for the issuance of permits that align with Arkansas statutes and alcohol beverage control administrative regulations. I'd like to note and thank Blake Pennington, the assistant city attorney who worked hard on this. I think he's done a good job on this. And I just wanted to note that he was basically the author of this ordinance.
 Okay, all right, this is an ordinance, and what's the wishes of the council? And will we take this to the next reading? Third reading? Yes, third reading. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, Sarah. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In order to amend section 111.30 retail in chapter 111 alcoholic beverages of the city code provide for the issuance of permits that align with Arkansas statutes and alcohol beverage control administrative regulation. Any final comments from the council? Nope. Sorry. You popped up.
 I want to get on to thank you for the work that y'all did on this and clarifying all this and making it a whole lot simpler and that's good work thank you thank you ma'am all right with that Karen would you please call the row Turk Turk yes Smith yes Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes
 all right thank you all moving along to number six a resolution authorized contract with emory sap and sons incorporated any amount of one million two hundred and fifty thousand one hundred and fifty two dollars and fifty four cents for the
 construction of the loophole road extension from tenure drive to weir road to approve a project contingency in the amount of 187 500 and to approve a budget adjustment this is one of our 2019 transportation bond programs so i believe chris you have this one
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is the second of two Rupert Road projects in the 2019 bond program. The first being the cost share with the developer to construct the work across their development. This is kind of the last piece of the puzzle in terms of Rupert Road. This will create a continuous route.
 from MLK all the way to Howard Nickel Road. So it's the last piece to make that entire connection. We took bids on March 11th and received six bids. Emory Sapp and Sons was the low bidder. They were lower than the engineer's estimate by about 22%, so we feel like we got a really good bid.
 It's a seven month construction time, so hopefully be starting within the month and then it'd be completed within about eight months. In terms of budget, about a little over a million dollars is funded out of the transportation bond program. And then there are some water and sewer improvements that are part of the project, $216,000 out of the water and sewer fund. So with that, I'll answer any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Chris on this council? I have a question. This is Sarah. I was wondering, you said it was 22% below the other bids. Is that correct? It was 22% below the engineer's estimate. We typically get an estimate from the engineering firm just so we know where we are. Okay, great.
 And have we used this company before? Is this a company that we've used frequently? Actually, Emory Sapp & Sons did the flyover bridge back a few years ago. Did an excellent job managing, staying on schedule. So past experience says they are a very good contractor. Okay. That's good to know. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Okay. All right. Let's see if  let's take some public comment.
 All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Less City Council by a majority vote gives you more time, or if the City Council has questions for you. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to speak first? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the Council. What's the wish of the Council? This resolution. Mayor, I move we adopt the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to adopt the resolution. Is there any final comments from the Council?
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? TURK. Yes. SMITH. Yes. GUTIERREZ. Yes. MARSH. Yes. KENYON. Yes. PETTY. Yes. SCROGGIN. Yes. BUNCH. BUNCH. Yes. Thank you all very much. Okay. Number seven.
 a resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract with bentonville bella vista trailblazers association incorporated dba nwa trailblazers any amount of 674 281 for the construction of the start finish area and other improvements within centennial park and to approve a budget adjustment chris i believe you have this
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. We currently have an agreement with NWA Trailblazers whereby they're constructing the soft surface trails at Centennial Park and the city is building the infrastructure improvements, which you'll hear about in the next item.
 But these two pieces of work that are in Trailblazers, their portion of the project, really don't fit well with the contractor building soft surface trails and that sort of thing. These are paved areas, base and paving. So it made more sense to include it in our contract.
 and have them reimburse us. So that's what this contract does. It's a maximum $674,281. That does include a 10% contingency for change orders and that sort of thing. So the total bid amount is $612,983. And so that will cover any eventualities during the contract.
 But with that, I'll answer questions. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak but has five minute time limit. Unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to speak first from the public?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's wishes to council? This is resolution. Move we pass the resolution. I'll second that. Okay. All right. You got to take care. Thank you all. All right. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Higgins.
 Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 20-36 and to authorize the contract across from Heavy Contractors Incorporated
 in the amount of $3,144,343.60 for the construction of improvements to Centennial Park to approve a project contingency in the amount of $314,434 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another one of our 2019 sales tax bond projects. Ted, I believe you have this one. Thank you, Mayor. And I'm gonna attempt to share my screen here. So...
 All right, so let me get to work there. All right, so this construction contract is part of the work done for Phase I improvements at Centennial Park. These improvements, along with some of the very impressive trail work and trail features, they're being done by Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers.
 will enable Centennial Park to host the 2022 World Cyclocross Championship with riders coming from around the world to Fayetteville. It also will enable it to do other events and be a great venue for the people of Fayetteville. Here you can see the Phase 1 improvements from the Master Plan that was approved last June. And there's trails going throughout the 220 acres of the park.
 And then there's work that's kind of in the center of the park that's being done by the city. Here zooming into it a little bit more, you can see some of the work. The purple represents funding being,
 provided by the transportation bond. This builds the road coming off of Old Farmington up to the park and also does a little bit of improvement along Old Farmington. The park bond is paying for an asphalt parking lot, a turnaround, it's a little larger than actually what was shown in the master plan. There were some changes based on design development as we moved through, you know, actually figuring out how to design this best.
 There's a turnaround access drive to the rear, landscaping, restroom, and then off on the back end a little bit of trail here that was funded by Parks. The trail fund paid for trail along old Farmington and then also the trail coming up Old Centennial to this point right here if you can see my cursor.
 Later, another finding, there'll be a hard surface trail that will kind of work its way down and end up tied into North Shiloh Trail. So there'll be a kind of north-south connection through the park that's a hard surface, easier grade to kind of climb up. Also, there's water and sewers paying for infrastructure coming up the road, the water line and fire hydrant.
 And then the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers, which Chris was talking about, they are funding all this trail infrastructure. That first slide that I had is one of the event pieces that are in here with some really great rock work being integrated into it. And then the cost share contracts is paying for the start finish area here. And then some hard surfacing or hard kind of grass parking for vent overflow kind of type parking.
 And then finally kind of looking at some of the work in the field. This is some trail work actually being done right now and they're really integrating some interesting features into the trail. So we're real happy that we believe that once this phase and then the work, the city's being done, we're going to have a really special park out there, kind of a one of a kind that will be a great opportunity.
 tourist attraction, bringing people into the town, but also a great facility for the people of Fayetteville to enjoy. And I'd be glad to answer any questions. What questions do we have? Can we go back to the map? Yeah, so I'm still, I don't know if this is exactly related to it or not, but I'm still concerned about how people will get in and out of the park
 out of to MLK and I know that this is this is not a part of this exactly connect you know what we're talking about here because we're looking at the trails but just you know making a lot of traffic to get in and out of there but has has that been addressed at all in another place to get out of you know entering and exiting MLK?
 Well right now the park will exit onto Old Farmington Road. You have two choices. You could go left down to Shiloh then you have to take a right towards Old Farmington or you can turn right and go down to I can't remember the name of that street but you turn left and come out at a light right across from the kind of the Walmart and the Lowe's area right there. Oh okay it's going to go to that light that's great okay great yeah that sounds great.
 I have a question also, Ted. Is what you're entering the park on, is that now a private drive? That was a private drive, I believe, when it was purchased, so it's kind of a narrow drive. We did look at could we use that for the entry road, but it was really...
 not as feasible as we would have liked and that's why we end up going to a new new alignment okay yeah because i've been on that road and it's it's it's really just a one lane you know okay thank you okay any other questions okay now we'll take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak there's a five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first to speak from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? I move we pass the resolution. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Well, thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, just a few.
 I just wanted to remind the public about the daily COVID response updates that the City of Fayetteville compiles and sends out on the website and through social media just to try to keep everyone up to date on all the different measures that are being taken. I want to remind our residents to practice social distancing from our meetings with the mayor and the chiefs every day. We do.
 have observations about best practices and then some that we need to be more vigilant about. But as everyone understands, this is each and every one's responsibility to maintain that social distancing. One thing that we'll be doing in the near future is laying down some guidelines.
 some clings on the trail system. So people should be able to observe the warnings to make sure to also keep distance on the trail. Those will be laid down all over town and on all the trail system. In fact, it's a regional effort. Um,
 And then just to move on to some of the other items that as reminders, as the city and the Fayetteville Farmers Market announced last week before the what was to be the opening, the downtown square market will remain closed until further notice. And they are having their market at the Evelyn Hills parking lot.
 We are going to postpone the bulky waste pickups that were scheduled for April 18th and 25th until June, and those dates will be forthcoming in a media release in the next day or two. One of those events was a shredding event, so we'll be rescheduling the shredder, but those will happen in June. And then finally, I thought Peter was maybe going to give us a plug for 
 the new compost delivery that we're piloting. So that'll be something exciting that residents can look forward to. We'll be making an announcement about that as part of our food resiliency future plans with a new group of folks that is working together to help with a lot of different areas for making sure we can keep the food resiliency ever forward and keep it
 feed our people grow our food and make sure we can deliver produce to market thank you okay any other announcements thank you all council real good work tonight all right we're adjourned