I'd like to call to order the City Council meeting of April 7, 2015. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh, here. Kenyon, here. Petty, tenant, here. Shopmar, little chair, here. Long, here. Gray, here. Mayor Jordan, here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 to a republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, liberty and justice for all. Okay, under the first order of business we have tonight, we have the quarterly financial report, fourth quarter of 2014 by Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer of the City of Fayetteville. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is on the fourth quarter of 2014, so it's year-end statements. We're working on them right now.
 However, I'll give you the report for where we stand. Currently, we're under audit by Grant Thornton. The statements will be issued approximately June 30th.
 We'll end up in the general fund with a fund balance of about $14 million, which is roughly what I projected when we talked about the salary increases. Now, if we look at the general fund, there's a deficit of $2 million. So $2 million we went into reserves. Now, if we adjust that for what we did in carryovers, which is about $1.4 million netting the revenue, that means for the year we had a deficit of about $2 million.
 $3.5 million roughly in that neighborhood.
 That seems bad, except if we remember we consciously went into reserves for a couple of things. One, to complete the parking deck. Also to fund the purchase of Kessler Mountain. And also for salary increases. So that's pretty good news that we went into reserves for over a million dollars less than we had originally anticipated. What this means is we paid for those salary increases in 2014 into 2014
 and we should have enough in reserves to pay for one year's worth of salary increases, which you approved this year. So I'm certainly satisfied with the...
 with how we came out in the general fund. Roughly revenues were up and down certain areas, franchise fees were up, sales tax was flat, court fines were down, building permits were up, they kind of washed. So revenues were just about in line with what we had anticipated. As far as expenditures,
 We were about $1.5 million after adjustment for carryovers, less than what we had expected. So those operating surpluses were essentially due to expenditure reductions or expense control. We look at the street fund. The street funds had a surplus of about $316,000. Revenues were pretty well what we expected as were expenditures, essentially that's basically due to
 to expense reduction again. But that's pretty well in line. That's $300,000 surplus for that year. The parking fund, of course, is a little tighter. We essentially broke even in the parking fund for a year, which is a good thing. We had MET coverage for the bonds for 2014 and then through 2015, so that's a good thing.
 But essentially we broke even in the parking fund. Revenues were primarily where we expected them to be. Parks Development Fund, revenues were up about 2.5%. We had a deficit of $490,000 in the Parks Development Fund, but then that had been anticipated. Remember, if you look at those financial statements,
 you'll see a reduction in expenditures for the year of $4.6 million. That's due to the accumulation for the regional park, which we have been doing over the years. And certainly the performance allows us to get through phase one that you approved this year for the regional park. So we're pretty excited about that and the revenues came in where we had expected so we can get that development going.
 Warner and Sewer, we show about a $3.6 million surplus. That surplus essentially is due to depreciation more than anything else. Remember, we're looking at accrual basis financial statements. But Warner and Sewer, the revenue was up.
 Roughly 3% now since we adjusted rates by 3% it came in just about to budget where we had in fact anticipated Remember going forward on a cash basis. We generated about eight million dollars in cash for projects Again, we've got about a thirty million dollar budget
 CIP program going forward for the next five years. So we're in pretty good shape in the water and sewer fund. Obviously we do have some imponderables out there that we are facing at this point in time.
 Recycling showed a deficit of $377,000. The expense budget showed roughly $4 million under expenses, but then again, remember we have that expansion project going out at the recycling and trash collection facilities.
 At the end of this year, I expect to have about a $3 million fund balance in that moving forward. And one of the things obviously we're looking at is the implementation of the plan you're looking at at this point in time.
 Airport was just about on track with revenue and expenditures. Revenues were down slightly, but expenditures were also down in correlation, and we'll end up with about a $400,000 surplus at the end of this year.
 Kind of closing comments, I think when we look at where we are at this point in time, I think we're looking at volatile revenue. If you remember last year toward the end of the year, sales tax showed a decline. This year it bounced back at the tail end, and last year it started bouncing back. Building permits were up, but you can't count on building permits all of the time.
 We are looking at, I think, somewhat of a fragile national economy. We're growing at a percent and a half to two percent, but the European economy and the rest of the world economy is not showing much growth. Asia actually is showing a decline in their growth. So we don't know where we're going to be, but I think we're in a good position to fund a lot of infrastructure programs that we have out there at this point in time. We have the cash to do that.
 I think we're in a good financial position. In case we have a downturn, I think we have the flexibility to move to meet that. And with that, that's the end of my report. I'll be happy to answer questions. We have any questions for Paul on financial support? Yes, John. Yes, John. Paul, explain to the public there's a difference between a cash balance and a fund balance. Sure, absolutely. A fund balance in government is just that.
 If you take your assets, everything you own, subtract everything you owe, what's left is a fund balance. Now that fund balance may be made up of many, many different things. It can be cash, or it can be accounts receivable. It could also be in the term of some other non-financial
 non-cash item. Like I said, receivables, it could also be some prepaid expenses, some of that nature. So when you're really looking, and John, I talk a lot about fund balance here because that's the common nomenclature that's been used. What you really want to look at is the cash balance rather than the fund balance because that's your cash on hand and that's what you need. I think right now we have sufficient cash balances moving forward too. So when we talk about fund balance,
 That is not all in cash. That may be receivables out there. Some of them may...
 have bad debt against them, maybe items that we can't easily convert to cash, maybe inventory, things of that nature. So that's the difference in cash balance, the fund balance. So do you think that when you say our general fund has a $14 million fund balance, how much cash do we have in the general fund? Cash balance, we're about $10 million, somewhere in that nature. So we're pretty cash rich right now. We're in good cash position.
 Obviously, the way our money comes in and the way it goes out, we have to have cash balances to meet our commitments. Yes, we are in a good cash position at this point in time. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Thank you, Paul. The next thing we have, advertised promotion commission appointment. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes.
 We would like to pass on from the Advertising and Promotion Committee the recommendation for Matt Behrens to continue on the commission, and we would like to pass that on for consideration. I'll second it. And that's to affirm their decision? And affirm their decision. We have a motion to second. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Lature? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. Learn consent tonight. Number one, we have the approval of March 17, 2015 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing HASHMAT services revenue received by the Fire Department from Washington County in the amount of $1,930 and increasing the related expense budget.
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2015 Arrow XT fire engine from Pierce Manufacturing, Inc., in Wisconsin in the amount of $517,485 plus a contingency of $25,875 pursuant to the Houston-Galveston Area Council contract to improve budget adjustment.
 Number four, resolution to authorize the purchase of a 2015 Caterpillar 308 ECR excavator from J.A. Briggs of Springdale. Any amount of $100,208.25 plus tax is pursuant to the National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Transportation Services Department to approve budget adjustment.
 Number five resolution authorized purchase of a John Deere loader from Stribling equipment of Springdale, Arkansas any amount of $139,750 Plus applicable taxes pursuant to the National Joint Powers Alliance co-operative purchasing agreement used by the Transportation Services Department
 Number six, a resolution authorized the purchase of a trailer mounted 2015 Boring Machine Series 2 Navigator from Premier Mid-South Corporate of Springdale, Arkansas on the amount of $213,522.66 plus any applicable taxes pursuant to the National Joint Powers Alliance Go-Active Purchasing Agreement used by the Water and Sewer Operations Division and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number seven, resolution authorizes the purchase of six police packaged Chevrolet Tahoe's from Superior Chevrolet of Siloam Springs in total amount of $169,662, pursuant to the state procurement contract for use by the police department. Number eight, resolution to approve the purchase of 2015 Dodge Ram 2500 pickup,
 truck from Landers Dodge of Benton, Arkansas in the amount of $24,752 pursuant to the state procurement contract for use by the police department. Number nine, resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Max serves healthcare solutions incorporated for the airport hanger at 4580 South School Avenue for a rent of $2,893.
 per month to begin retroactively on March 1, 2015. Number 10, a resolution to authorize acceptance of $21,857.70 grant from the State Drug Crime Enforcement and Prosecution Fund to be matched by $5,464.43 from the City funds to be used by the 4th District Drug Task Force in approved budget adjustments.
 Number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of ammunition needed by the Federal Police Department during 2015 from Gulf State Distributors in the amount of $59,709.49 pursuant to the State of Arkansas ammunition contract. Number 12, a resolution to approve the purchase of automated external defibrillators for Police Department vehicles from Lifesavers Incorporated in the amount of $40,869.80.
 pursuant to a state of art self procurement contract and number 13 a resolution to authorize the purchase of a peterbilt model 348 roloff truck from national auto fleet group any amount of 143 416 pursuant to the national joint powers alliance of the purchasing agreement for use by the recycling and trash collection division i would entertain a motion to accept consent agendas red so moved
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent in Tender's Red. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. An unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to amend the Federal Code by enacting 71.016 insurance requirements for motorized bicycles, motor scooters, and mopeds. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. I'll move.
 Second. We have a motion and a second. We go to third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Loutier? No. Long? Yes.
 Mayor, you can move it to the third and final reading so I don't have to read the whole ordinance if you want to vote yes. So moved. I will. Okay. An ordinance to amend Fable Code by enacting Section 71.016, insurance requirements for motorized bicycles, motor scooters, and mopeds. How? Well, I'm...
 Thank you all for taking the time to look through this issue. Just a brief synopsis of things we've looked at and I'll ask the chief in a couple minutes, a couple questions, or Mike, the assistant chief, police chief, a couple questions. But what this ordinance does, it looks at property damage only. We're looking at requiring liability insurance only for motor scooters.
 Scooters that can cause damage to someone else's property. We're not requiring them to have full coverage insurance or medical coverage for their motor school scooters only coverage that would Alleviate the financial burden on someone else where they to cause an accident and here's just some facts in 2012 There were 29 accidents 21 of which involved motor scooters without insurance
 And 15 out of that 29 were motor scooters that were at fault. In 2013, there were 44 accidents involving motor scooters. 35 of those did not have insurance. 16 out of that 44 were at fault. In 2014, there were 43 accidents involving motor scooters. 35 did not have insurance. And 20 motor scooters out of the 43 were at fault.
 From 2012 to 2014, we had a 28% increase in motor scooters accidents in Fayetteville, and a 5% drop in coverage, and that's from 2012 to 2014. So that shows us that there is a trend in the city of Fayetteville and in other college towns. Conway has experienced this, Jonesboro has experienced this, and now Fayetteville is. In the college towns where motor scooters are used as a primary means of transportation,
 that there is a gap in coverage for liability and the persons that could be injured from that should be able to be made whole through other means than our court system. Mike, if you could, I know that you've looked at this issue. What are some of the things that your department's found?
 What was the question? I'm sorry, I'll be wrong. What are some of the things that your department has assessed in this? I know that you've spoken with the people in Conway. That's correct. Back in October, we looked at some of these numbers, and we noticed that this was an emerging trend, and I say emerging trend. We see that motor scooters are an emerging mode of transportation for our citizens in Fayetteville and other college towns as well, whether that be Jonesboro or Conway that you had mentioned earlier or Clarksville.
 So we started looking at some of the trends you've already covered some of the numbers that we've seen so we've seen an emerging Number of accidents that are occurring over the last three years One thing that that we try to do at our level on the state level was try to get our lobbyist at the Arkansas Association's chiefs of police to develop a bill and get a law passed a state law passed for for insurance to be required for motor scooters and
 and also to get registration as well. We were unsuccessful in getting any, garnering any support for that during this legislative session. And so we come to you with these numbers, this issue that we have here in Fayetteville, and as far as the police department goes, we don't see an exception for automobiles. We don't see an exception for boats. We don't see an exception for watercrafts, but we do see an exception for vehicles
 motor scooters under 50 cc's. The concern for us is the number of accidents that we're starting to see and the injury associated with those accidents. We do believe from a police department standpoint that insurance would provide a remedy for individuals to seek or that incur injury or property damage to seek relief. And so we are supportive of this resolution of this ordinance.
 And I just had a couple questions. We've talked a little bit about the enforcement mechanism. Can you talk a little bit about that? Because from my perspective, I don't see it as being any different. We wouldn't need any extra staff or we wouldn't need to create any other type of enforcement mechanisms or we wouldn't need to have another facility for that. It would just be run of the mill traffic stops or accidents where you would check for that insurance.
 That is correct. With automobiles or with motorcycles over 50 cc's, they require insurance. That's something that our officers go through. They check to see the registration, the insurance information and also the driver's license. Some of that insurance information is contained at the Arkansas Crime Information Center database. Some of it is valid. We're hoping that within the next year, year and a half, that there will be a
 a statewide database that's real time on insurance information. So it'll just be a part of the process of running an individual's registration insurance and license information so it doesn't add any workload for the officers to do that. Thank you. I appreciate your looking into that for us. You're welcome. Okay. Mike, do you have any insight into the legislature's failure to act? Why was there no interest? I do not have any insight into that.
 You know, I can just sit here and surmise my opinion is that it's probably not a statewide issue
 Mr. Latour, I believe that it's an isolated issue to college towns at this point, towns where that is a popular mode of transportation. I think at both the equipment committee and the town and gown, we heard representatives from the university talk about the number of registered motor scooters that had increased on the university, and I think it had went up dramatically.
 Okay. Since you brought it up, how did the Town and Gown Committee rule on this issue? I'm not sure, Mr. Latour, how they ruled on it. I left after I gave my presentation on that. I was not present, but what I heard was they decided it would be better dealt with at the state level, not the local level. And you might understand why they would conclude that. Suppose Fayetteville passes this ordinance, Springdale doesn't, Lowell does, Rogers doesn't, Bentonville does, Bella Vista doesn't.
 You see how confusing it could be to the owner of a scooter? I'm concerned that our city is going to be so inundated with regulations, even though it's a good cause. I agree, Alan. We don't want people going around damaging other people with no means to remedy that damage.
 But I'm afraid that we're going to have so many regulations that will be confusing to others who are coming into our city from outside. They may be trapped by our laws that they weren't expecting because back in their hometown, it was legal. Maybe in the town up the road, it's legal. That's why I think it's better dealt with at the state level. Okay. Don, you were at that town again, maybe. And Mark was there. I'm sorry. Okay.
 The recommendation was not to make a recommendation. They did not want the responsibility of enforcing this with their parking. Their parking permit program. Permit. I couldn't think of it. We thought that was one way it might be able to be enforced rather than just as. There was discussion, but it was not a recommendation. There was discussion that on a state level it could be easier to enforce.
 to understand and to implement for the very reasons that Councilman LaTour has mentioned in that if it's a municipality, there's a lot of crossover from traffic from one municipality to the other. So there was not the recommendation was not to recommend, which is not always fair, but that's what it came down to.
 I would add that the question asked of the Town and Gown Committee was not their support or lack of support for the ordinance, but the referral to the Town and Gown was to the University Parking and Transit System, whether they would aid in the enforcement. And that committee came back and reported from the university that they would not do that, that they saw it addressed at a state level. So that's the actual Town and Gown information that came back. Okay. Okay.
 I'm just curious, because the university is state property, would our ordinance, I know our development codes don't apply to the university property, so would our, would this requirement apply to the university property as well?
 Well, this wouldn't be applying to university property. It would be applying to an individual who's driving a scooter that he owns. It's not university property whether or not they're on the street at the university. We still enforce traffic regulations at the university if we need to. Now, we don't always patrol it because we have the university police, but we have authority on the university campus. Yes, sir. I just had one other question for you, Chief Reynolds. Alderman Latour mentioned other cities.
 different ordinances that the police department has to enforce in Fayetteville that may not exist in other cities? Oh, we have a number of ordinances. I think you all are well aware of that, that we don't enforce. Okay, so something being different in Rogers as compared to Fayetteville is not out of the ordinary. No, it's not unusual because you have different issues that are dealt with or that are different problems in certain cities that aren't a problem here and vice versa.
 Thank you appreciate it. Well, no. It seems to me that my problem is in favor of the college students and you know I hear our police and our faith are faithful policeman saying he supports this so I I'm going to give it a good hard look thank you. And by us okay, let's take some public comment now here's the rules when you come to the podium name the dress.
 Keep the comments to me, okay? I'm the chair of the meeting, so keep the comments to me. Everybody gets one turn at the mic unless a council member brings you up to ask questions. Our rules are the mayor has the authority to rule out of order. Please stay on the topic. I don't want any rude behavior, no boos, clapping, or cheering, all right? So let's stay on topic.
 And be courteous. And who would like to be first? Someone drop the pen. My name is Romaine O'Neill. I live here in the city of Fayetteville, 3001 West Weddington Drive. And I agree that I think that this ordinance is frivolous. I don't see how it can be enforced. I think it places an undue burden on those scooter riders. They don't know what the numbers are in terms of what the damages are.
 caused by these accidents, what the dollar amount is or the injury level, but I think this is a frivolous ordinance, and I agree. Just because there are other ordinances in other cities that aren't exactly in line with ours, that doesn't give us license to pass ordinances that creates an undue burden on a lesser segment of the population. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I have a question.
 Yes, Al. Ma'am, he has a question for you. Council Member Long has a question for you. Has a question for you. How are you doing tonight, Lorraine? I'm well, thank you. Good, I know we've talked about this before. But you did mention the enforcement. You said you didn't know how it would be enforced. We talked about it a little bit, but it would be if a scooter person is pulled over for speeding or...
 being involved in an accident, just as though they are with other scooters and cars, that would be when citations could be issued for that. Does that explain that a little bit
 I understand that part, but I think it places an undue burden on the officers. They've got to tie up, and I don't know what the, if any actual studies have been done as to the dollar amount of the damages that have been done by these few accidents that have occurred and whether there's actually been any serious physical injuries that have occurred or any serious financial injuries that have occurred. And those things, you know, it just seems frivolous to me.
 But there's the enforcement part for you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello, my name is Laura Phillips. I live at 2055 South Klein. I wasn't going to say anything, but the speaker before me got me thinking. If you spend any time on campus, I work for the university, I have a really good view of a major thoroughfare, you're going to see accidents, and you're going to hear about these kids that are getting hurt. And without the liability insurance,
 they're left to take care of the damage to their vehicle from a scooter or their physical injuries on their own. It does happen more than you really think. Scooters are everywhere on that campus. And, you know, coming from someone who, like I said, has seen these every day, it is a really logical thing and I thank Councilman Long to him, you know, for bringing this up because
 I see it firsthand. I witness it firsthand. I see it at the health center. I see these kids coming in. And it's something that is needed, so I encourage you to vote for it. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. This is not why I came this evening, but I own a $3,000 motor scooter that's 49cc, and I think I rode it once last summer. So I've listened to this debate as it's gone down.
 I think I'm a responsible person, and there's a part of me that's inclined to say there should be insurance for devices that can do harm. The biggest disincentive to me is the thought of having to get it registered, which I haven't done, go down to Razorback, get it assessed, go up to the courthouse, or go to Razorback, get it registered, go to the courthouse, get it assessed. I mean, the administrative burden seems like a nuisance.
 The only thing I'll say, I don't see this as an issue having right or wrong answers. Two points. One, Conway may be different. I've only been there twice in my life. I don't know if they have multiple jurisdictions in close proximity to the University of Central Arkansas. But that brings me to the second point, which I think the issue is, to me, I would think that it ought to be a statewide rule because there are so many jurisdictions close about here and it just seems...
 not right to have students living in one city or town, and they're mostly students I think who drive these things. Again, I have one, but it's scary on the road. So I think to have them in one town and it requires that another town doesn't, I don't know. That to me militates against having a city rule. Can I ask a question real quick? Yes. You had mentioned the licensing and the registration. We're not gonna be requiring those things, just the insurance.
 If I actually got the energy up to do something about it, I'd be more likely to get it registered so that if it got stolen, it would have a title associated with it. I do agree. I'm almost more afraid riding my bicycle on the trail that I could come around a corner and hit somebody and hurt someone and do a lot of damage, and yet there's no proposal to license bicycles, which...
 Again, I think it's a well-intentioned proposal and I wouldn't be opposed to it. I wouldn't change my vote for any councilman, but I just worry about the multiple. It'd be like Serbia or Yugoslavia with all these different jurisdictions having different rules. I guess that's more my objection. I would do the registration or not do the registration. I'd get the insurance if it were required.
 although I don't really know that I've ever insured something that wasn't a registered vehicle. But, again, I have no strong feelings on it, but that's my only concern. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, it's Michael Collins, 1625 North Giles, Fayetteville. Is there anybody here that's been injured tonight by a motor scooter or anybody that's had car damage or anything? Was there any testimony about it?
 I don't think so. Okay. Stay with me. I was just looking to see if anyone raised their hands, but I'm not sure that this isn't just another solution in search of a problem here tonight. I mean, government should be the last resort of a solution. I, being a responsible driver, my wife would argue that point, but I have uninsured motorist because I'm already out of school. I have a job. I have a career. I can afford that. I take responsibility.
 for things like that. Adding yet another burden to somebody who's, you know, not driving the most extravagant vehicle available on the road, let's face it, they're probably facing DUI issues, they're probably facing some other hardships or they're just not old enough to drive or whatever.
 I think it's the death of a thousand cuts to just ask more and more and more of the citizenry to pony up things, whereas on my side, you know, I've taken care of that. If he hits me, doesn't have insurance, I've covered that for him, you know. I might feel sorry for the kid, you know, help him fix his scooter, I don't know. But bottom line is I just don't see why we should burden it until it becomes such a problem that it's not solvable outside of the government purview. I think it's a good idea.
 But I'm not sure that we're there at that point yet where we need it. You know, it's a viable option, but I'm not convinced that there's a huge enough problem yet to warrant this type of overarching action on that. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Anyone else? Paul Fanoff, North Acre Corridor Crossing in Fayetteville. I'm a little bit conflicted with this particular proposed ordinance because on the one hand,
 I am a proponent of personal responsibility. I think that it's a well-intended ordinance. I'm just curious about the enforcement
 and the confusion that would arise from it. If somebody, I'm not even sure how many people live in Fayetteville who are on scooters, how many people come to the university from other locations, would there be criminal penalties if somebody were to be stopped and they didn't have the insurance? I'm sorry, that would be a question for a kid. Okay.
 Any violation of an ordinance can be prosecuted and a fine can be levied by the district judge if the district judge feels like that's proper. Does the ordinance provide what the penalty would be? I don't think there's a specific penalty provision in here, so I defer to our general penalty provision like every other ordinance in the code. You're probably curious what that might be.
 Well, I'm sure that it would be uniform, but- You bring up a good point. There is a general penalty provision in our code that follows state law. In fact, it's half what state law says we can do now, that a penalty can be up to $500 or if it's a recurring problem like we've had with some trash problems, it can be $250 a day, up to the maximum. That is what the judge would be allowed to pronounce if the person was found guilty of
 Obviously, the judge usually does not pronounce the maximum fine in most cases, but that is what every one of our code sections that doesn't have a specific penalty provision defers back to that general penalty provision. Could somebody be subject to arrest if they were driving from another community and were stopped? No. They could be issued a citation, but they could not be arrested.
 would they be able to drive their scooter away, or would it be confiscated? Well, the way I read it, I don't see anything about confiscating scooters. I'm just curious. Do we not know? I don't know. If it's not in the ordinance, then there's no power for the police to do that. Okay. Can I answer your question? Sure, absolutely. Yes, that does, thank you. The last thing that I'm curious about is, does this sound like we would have two standards?
 In other words, one for folks that lived in Fayetteville and one for folks that visited. And the thing that I'm concerned about is the notion of people coming into town and not knowing. How does Fayetteville communicate something like this to people who don't live here? I'm concerned with that aspect of it, and that was really it. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Anyone else like to address us on this? No. No.
 Everybody gets one turn. Unless Council Member brings you back. Could I ask her to come back? Yes, you may. You may. Again, I think Councilman, I'm sorry, Laura Phillips, 2055 South Klein. Again, sorry, thank you. When you apply to the University of Arkansas, you're given a very thorough admissions packet that talks about specific laws in Fayetteville, what to expect, how to register your car if you're here, how to register to vote.
 what to do if you bring a scooter on campus along with things like health records changing your driver's license that's covered so it'd be very easy to use admissions and share that information which is you said the majority of scooters are college students correct from what we've seen i believe that may be true right so and if they're not they're probably high school students or they
 someone in that demographic. So let's assume that I buy my kid a scooter, I'm going to know the rules, I'm going to be able to tell them. So it's not a matter of this mystical law that descends from the heavens,
 It's personal responsibility. When I move to a different place that might have a different drinking age, I take it upon myself to learn that. If I'm moving my child on campus with his $3,000 scooter that he never rides, I am going to take the time to find out the rules for that scooter for my child. Thank you. Okay. All right. I'm going to bring everything back to the council. We're on the third and final reading. So what's the final comments from the council? Okay.
 Okay, John. I'll go ahead and admit, like some of the speakers have admitted, I'm torn on the issue. Who can be against personal responsibility? And requiring liability insurance is certainly the responsible position. I suppose what bothers me about it is it's a coercive action by those of us in the seat of power, by city government.
 I would rather the city council pass a resolution saying, we encourage our citizens to take responsibility for their lives. If you have a scooter, get liability insurance. If you have a car, get liability insurance. It is the law. Things of that nature. Instead of saying, we know what's best for you, get it. That's what irks me about it. But like many of the speakers, I can go either way on it. I'm not gonna break friendships because somebody votes for it and somebody votes against it. I'm not real passionate in other words.
 But my default position is government stay out of it. Let people cooperate among themselves voluntarily. Sarah. I'm also very torn on this issue. I really wish that the legislature had addressed this because I do think that it's something that the state government should do.
 My initial concerns were about different regulations in different municipalities, but realizing that these are 50cc scooters, these have a top speed of around 45 miles per hour. This is not something you're going to be driving in from Greenland or Gentry or wherever to go to school. In full disclosure, I own a scooter, but it's 150ccs and I do have insurance.
 I am hesitant to pose an additional financial burden on students. Let's be honest, a lot of people who are driving these vehicles, they're driving it out of a financial choice. I know that this winter I saw a guy commuting on his scooter in California.
 the freezing cold, you know, wrapped up, and that's not a person who's scooting for pleasure, that's a person who's scooting for economic necessity. And I'm really hesitant to impose an additional burden on them. But I think one thing that this does expose is our lack of adequate public transportation. And if we had better ways for people to get around, you know, maybe they wouldn't be riding a scooter in freezing cold weather or freezing.
 or spending a lot of money on a scooter when they could just hop on the bus so i hope that that's something we're going to be addressing soon so um i could pretty much toss a coin on this to figure out how to vote so i'm hoping somebody else will give some insightful comments to help me make up my mind thanks okay well mr mayor and thank you all for giving this so much consideration um i just want to address a few things that
 Have been talked about someone mentioned the different standard for people Inside Fayetteville and people from outside Fayetteville, but it's one standard same standard We impose on vehicles and it's for people who drive in Fayetteville And if they're stopped or involved in an accident that one standard is applied and may be issued a citation for not having adequate insurance and that's because I
 We, people that are not at fault shouldn't have to take responsibility for someone else's financial burden that they've caused to them. You know, in 2012, 15 people that were driving had to take responsibility for a scooter driver causing them property damage. In 2013, 16 people in the city of Fayetteville had to take responsibility for the property damage caused by another motor scooter.
 In 2014, 20 people had to take responsibility for someone else driving a scooter that caused them property damage. And I think one is too many, but I think that we're looking at this upward trend, 15, then 16, then a big jump to 20. And it's increasing as enrollment at the university is increasing, as the population is increasing.
 I think we have a problem that's developing and I've seen the police reports that were Forwarded to me by the police department before I sent that to the ordinance review committee and it's real So I just think we need to address that. Yes Well, I appreciate you concerned for fair play and that's important. But what you're failing to recognize is that
 You're looking at the stats and saying, well, these people didn't have liability insurance, so the victim of their negligence or the victim of their abuse or failure to be responsible is out in financial compensation. I've had fundamentals with people where I jump out and say, I'll write you a check to cover your damage. And I don't want it filed against my insurance because there go my premiums.
 I mean, we're discounting that possibility that there could be some responsible scooter drivers who don't have liability insurance, but they still are good for their debts. And they still make good claims against them. And if they don't, there's always small claims court. There are remedies. Small claims court, I think, is $30 filing fee. Not very high.
 So I don't want us to give the wrong impression that just because someone doesn't have liability insurance, they're completely responsible and at least someone bereft of a remedy. There are remedies available. Okay. Yes, Adele. For me, the deciding factor is the fact that our police department is supportive of this, and we depend on our police department to keep us safe. That's everyone in Fayetteville, including students and all of us residents. So I will be supporting this.
 Okay. Yes, Justin. Well, I've changed my mind about six times in the last 15, 20 minutes. Me too. I changed my mind at ordinance review, and I want to thank the staff and the Town and Gown Committee for looking at this because I think they looked at several different options. One of the options that I thought made sense was when a student gets their original permit to park on campus, that they would have to show liability regardless of what they were parking.
 But talking to the university, it sounds like they don't want to add any more fees or hoops for students. My opinion is they had plenty of fees that they could probably take away and add this one and no one would be the wiser, but I'm not the chancellor. I applied, but I didn't get that job. You didn't apply? Well, it was just an online application.
 I'm extremely torn on this because in one respect, I really think that one of our jobs up here is to protect people when we can and those people that maybe get in some sort of accident and the person does not have any liability insurance, those scooters even at 40 miles an hour could do a lot of damage.
 But then on the other hand, there is a responsibility there. There is uninsured motorists. There is a lot of other options, a small claims court and things like that. It sounds to me like the insurance is not very cost. I mean, I think I heard around $50 or something like that. And although that is a cost, I don't know that it's a cost that's unbearable when you're talking about an entire year. So...
 To me, the tipping point, I think, is like Adela said. I have to lean on the side of the police department. While I do wish that the state had done it,
 And I wish that we could just say, hey, a year from now, let's see if we can take it up for the session two years from now. I think we have to protect the people that we have to protect. And the other thing that bothers me is I see all these apartments going up in Fayetteville near the campus. I see all these places that are, you know,
 that are being built but I don't see that many parking lots and so I think Students are more and more going to be forced to ride scooters Which means there's gonna be more of them on the street, which means it can be more in crosswalks and more driving around where cars are sharing the road or somebody's on a bike and and This one is really really difficult because my gut tells me to let the state deal with it. But I
 We are the flagship city in in this state for for the university. So depending on Russellville to do something they may not have the problem that we have and they may not have the growth that we have they have tremendous growth. But when I drive around Russellville it doesn't look quite the same as as here and I do all those college town. I look around and see how they're being built so.
 I will support it. It's extremely difficult for me to do it because I think at the end of the day, it really could go either way and I wouldn't worry about it either way. But I think I err on the side of protection for those that don't have insurance and I err on the side of the fact that we are going to experience even more and more growth when it comes to scooters.
 This is one of the few times where I haven't disagreed with anybody up here because all the points have been exactly spot on, but we have to make a decision and if our police department thinks that it's the best thing, then I certainly take their thoughts into consideration because they are the ones taking care of us, as Adela said. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Sondra, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Sennett?
 No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. So the ordinance passes. Okay. Thank you all very much. I know that's a pretty tough decision. Number two, Nordstrom Act Article 3 procedure to exercise the initiative and referential rights of Chapter 36 elections into the Federal Code to clarify the proper procedure for the citizens' right initiative and referential. Kipp?
 Mr. Mayor, before the rules might be suspended, in fact I would recommend they probably not be so I can actually read what I'm proposing, I sent you all a memo on April 2nd talking about the new state law. The state legislature has amended the county referendum procedure, which they have every right to do pursuant to Amendment 7th.
 That is what I had cited originally as being what we should follow and that remains my recommendation. I think that's what we ought to do. However, because they did not change the state law in how state referendums on state statutes would be worded, then we need to remove that reference to the state statute because otherwise we've got conflicting views.
 things you're telling somebody to do it this way and you're telling somebody else will do it the opposite way and that's exactly the problem we had before it was very unclear and difficult and that's why i brought this forward so we could clarify it i also brought it forward because amendment 7 specifically gives the cities and municipalities in arkansas
 the right to exercise, to provide the procedure for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to their local legislation. Now, then it says, general laws shall be enacted provided for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as the counties. General laws are done by the state legislature. So they were certainly within their power and right
 to amend the county referendum law and they had within their right long ago when they initially prescribed how county referendums should be worded. So my recommendation is twofold. As I recommended at the last meeting, I believe that I no longer need to be a part of this ordinance. So I have removed all reference to the city attorney.
 And then the only other thing that I changed in this ordinance was in subsection C, where it would now read, the petitioner shall ensure that any ballot title conforms with ACA section 1414-917D, which is a county referendum language. That was in there before, but I removed the reference to the state language.
 I handed this out to you. It was on your table today as well as, of course, including that language in the memo. I would ask that someone make a motion to amend to the document that's in front of you today that has the new language that will be operative for this referendum language. So moved. Okay. I just have a question. So what you're basically saying is we move the city attorney and line up more with the county, right?
 We remove the city attorney having any input on this. Sure. And then we follow what the county ordinance is. If there's a referendum in the county and the referendum in the city, they'll hand it exactly the same. Just being sure I got that. And, John, you gave a motion to? I make the motion. Second. We have a second. All right. All right. What discussion do we have among the council on this amendment? Sarah. Can you explain a little bit about what the county referendum process is, just kind of outline that? Sure.
 Okay, the referendum process there has been amended by the new state law. Now that's, I don't know if that's in effect immediately or not. I don't remember if they had an emergency clause, but probably for the next referendum it'll be in effect. And it says, uh, it handles the issue this way. It says that if a county, and I think the county, I think has the same power that we do, that we can do a direct referral of a proposed ordinance to the voters.
 If that it happens if the governing body does that then it'll be for the title of the ordinance against the title of the ordinance then They can also
 So if it's referred by the governing body, it's going to be for the title of the ordinance, against the title of the ordinance. If, on the other hand, there's going to be a special election because the petition drive was successful and enough citizens signed a petition, then it would be for repeal of the title of the ordinance or against repeal of the title of the ordinance.
 So it depends on how the issue is brought up. If it's referred by the governing body, it's for or against the ordinance. And if it's referred by the petition of the people, it's for the repeal or against the repeal. Okay. Any other discussion? Okay, let's take some public comments. Same rules apply that we went through a while ago. So who would like to be first? That's not on the table. Now we're discussing the amendment right now.
 Okay, Peter. Discussion. It's Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. Discussing the amendment that was just handed at the beginning of the meeting. Yeah, I understand that. At the end of the last meeting, on March 17th, I had been discussing why we didn't... why I objected to having the city attorney involved. And I had made a statement that I didn't see what this version 2 was going to accomplish because it seems to just tell...
 people involved in initiatives and referenda to comply with the law. And then after I had spoken, Mr. Williams seemed to indicate that it needed action in terms of an ordinance in order to make this applicable to the city. And now there's been a change in this version, too. It's dropped out of... The city attorney. Well, that didn't say city attorney, which is one of the things that bothered me. It actually...
 Let me start from the beginning and I'll get through it more easily. These sections, 7-9-104, 105 are part of an act that begins at 7-9-101 and that has definitions and I'd like to hand those up in case aldermen would like to look at it with their own eyes. May I do that? Sure. Oh yes, absolutely.
 Definition number five says measure. Measure means an amendment, an act, or an ordinance. Definition number six is ordinance. Ordinance means an ordinance of a municipality or county, whether originating in the legislative body of the municipality or county or proposed by the people. Definition eight is petitioner.
 that's just a person who signs an initiative or referendum petition ordering a vote on a measure which has been defined to include municipal ordinances and then there's a definition sponsor i mean it seems to me that as you move on from section 7-9-101 if you look through the later sections of that act it points for example in
 7-9-104 and 7-9-105, I think that that law already applies as state law and doesn't need any activation by the city. And actually, if you compare subsection A of 104 and 105 with D1 or D2,
 There, there are provisions that are limited to statewide petitions. So as you move through the act, it tells you if it wants you to just do something with respect to the state or with respect to the state and county. And otherwise, presumably as I read the act, it would apply to a municipality. Now Mr. Williams' proposal has now deleted this request to have 7-9-107C in.
 That was an odd proposal because it would have directed this municipal ordinance to the state attorney general, as I read it, and I didn't understand why it was there because the attorney general was going to get it and say, well, I don't know what to do with this, and I'm not limited by two days, and he would have sent it down to the city attorney, as I read it, but that's gone now, so we don't have to worry about that. Another point I'd like to make is in his memorandum,
 of September 4th, 2014, which was not dealing with this, but Mr. Williams cited a city ordinance, section 10-02, which says, unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the interpretation of this code, the Fayetteville City Code, as those governing the interpretation of state law.
 And then finally, in the Constitution itself, the initiative and referendum section, it talks about local for municipalities and counties, and it says, the initiative and referendum powers of the people are hereby reserved to the legal voters of each municipality and county, as to all local, special, and municipal legislation of every character in and for their respective municipalities and counties.
 But no local legislation shall be enacted contrary to the Constitution or any general law of the state, and any general law shall have the effect of repealing any local legislation which is in conflict herewith." So I submit still that without any action of this ordinance, which in my mind does nothing, it just tells, it's a law telling people to obey the law which already applies from the Constitution
 from the state statute and already by definition from another city ordinance. And for that reason and then the confusion that has led to it in its current form, I would just ask that the city council not enact this ordinance. Allow the people, I mean if you really believe in democracy, let the people have their say. And if they goof up, then they goof up.
 I trust in the people to get it done right. And finally, I think there's a new bill now, section 1680, or bill 1687, that may resolve this language of the title issue and it may resolve that statewide. So I would at least ask the city council to move slowly on this and not come up with any conflicting legislation of the different levels of government. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, this is Campbell. Duncan Campbell, Arkansas.
 I appreciate the city attorney realizing that with the new state law, which has been enacted, and I just looked at it online here again, but it does make it clear if it's an initiative or if it's referred by the city council, then it's for or against the initiative or the referendum. And if it's...
 If it's done by petition, then it's for or against repeal. And it seems like that should just settle the issues. I agree with Mr. Thomas. I don't see a point in having a city ordinance that says we're going to obey the state or even here just the time to try to see if there's a conflict. But why take the chance anyway? It's kind of redundant.
 You know, why underline it? Why not just say the state passed a law, took care of it. Let's move on to some other business for the city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Lorraine O'Neill, City of Fayetteville, 3001 Weddington Drive. I agree with the previous two gentlemen who just spoke. I would like to see the City Council table this issue for now and see if the state can come up with something that is more clearly defined because I think this isn't going to solve anything and I think it's too biased in one direction. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, if I could, I'll try to explain one more time why I think we actually need this language. The language related to the counties obviously does not apply to cities unless we adopt it and say it will apply.
 The same thing about the state law that talks about the petitions and how you form petitions, and that's the first two parts. That's A and B. And the reason I say that is that what the Constitution rules over state statutes. The Constitution gives cities and gives the legislature powers. And so what does Amendment 7 say about the referendum power? It says,
 I'm quoting from the Constitution, Amendment 7. Municipalities may provide for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to their local legislation. Municipalities. It doesn't say the General Assembly can pass laws. It says municipalities. Now, why it was worded that way, I do not know. That's long in the past, but that's what it says. The very next sentence says,
 General laws. Now general laws are laws throughout the state passed by the general legislature, the General Assembly, the state legislature. General laws shall be enacted providing for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to counties. So the legislature clearly has powers to pass laws regulating referendums in counties
 but not cities. And even if they pass statutes purporting to regulate the referendum in cities, they are probably beyond their authority. I don't want to go there. I don't want to get into fights and say this law is unconstitutional or anything like that. So what I have done is said, we are going to exercise our constitutional powers by saying we're going to follow the county law, which is properly done by the state legislature.
 We're also going to follow the two state laws talking about how the initiative and referendum petitions are supposed to be, the proper form for them. So basically, even though we don't have to comply with those two state laws and the county law, we're going to anyway and that removes any problems, any confusion, any issues. If we do nothing, confusion remains.
 And so there's no reason not to do anything. No one is saying that what I have suggested is not the way they'd like to see referendums run. They're just saying, well, we don't really need it, and because of Amendment 7, we actually do need it. Okay. And what we have before us right now is the two-fold amendment, correct? Yeah, it's the one I handed out. Then we're going to go back to the amended ordinance, correct? It would be the amendment. The first vote would be for the amendment itself.
 Okay. All right, council. What's your thoughts on this? Anybody got any comments? Okay. Senator, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Cloutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 Okay, what we have before us now is the amended ordinance, correct? That's right, and we have not had the third reading. So you could suspend the rules so I don't have to read the title, but I'd still like to read the effective part, the section one that actually says what's going to go in our code. Well, why don't you just read that and...
 Well, if you don't suspend the rules, I'm going to have to read all the warehouse clauses, too, but I can if you want me to. Mayor, we should suspend the rules so he doesn't have to read. I second. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 In order to enact Article 3 procedure to exercise initiative and referendum rights of Chapter 36 elections into the Fable Code to clarify the proper procedure for citizens' right of the initiative and referendum. And the operative language which is found in this ordinance is Article 3 procedure to exercise initiative and referendum rights, Section 36.20 initiative and referendum petitions,
 Pursuant to Article 5, Section 1 of the Arkansas Constitution, the City establishes the following procedure for the exercise of citizens' right of the initiative and referendum of City legislation, subsection A.
 The petitioner shall ensure the form of any initially petition complies with Arkansas Code annotated Section 7-9-104. Subsection B, the petitioner shall ensure that the form of any referendum petition complies with Arkansas Code annotated 7-9-105.
 And Subsection C, the petitioner shall ensure that any ballot title conforms with Arkansas Code Annotated Section 1414-1917, Subsection D. So that is the entire Arlington language. Okay.
 Mayor, just a clear effect that the Council asks House Bill 1687 to amend the law concerning ballot questions and to add clarity to the format of the ballot question became an act, Act 1036 on April the 4th. It was passed without an emergency clause, so it will go into effect 90 days from the close of session. Okay. All right. Any other discussion from the Council on this? All right. What public comment do we have on the amended ordinance? Okay.
 Everybody sit down and hold tight, but I see what Mr. Williams is saying. I don't agree with him, but there is that sentence, municipalities may provide for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to their local legislation. General laws shall be enacted providing for the exercise of the initiative and referendum as to counties. However, that doesn't grant an exclusive right to municipalities to provide, and I still...
 think that the first paragraph still says that no local legislation shall be enacted contrary to the Constitution or any general law of the state. So I think it's a cat fight or a dog fight or a cat and dog fight. And I would still ask that the Council wait and see the effect of this new law. I know we're very concerned that
 An initiative or a referendum for repeal should be titled repeal, and then I think this law is going to address how either council initiated actions or citizen initiated reactions reactions shall be titled, and I think the city should be bound by that. Thank you. Who else would like to comment on this one?
 Hello, Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I was just reading through the new state law that was passed, and it seems to accomplish exactly what the folks that spoke have asked for as far as wording of ballots for initiatives for repeals. It does not look like it applies to cities. This would seem to do that. As much as we've talked about wanting to eliminate confusion and do things the same everywhere,
 It might understand this would accomplish that? Yes. Seems like a good plan. Anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. I have a comment. Oh, I'm sorry. I think as we move forward, we cannot forget the past, and this certainly, simply with experience of the past that we have to reflect upon.
 and also in regards to what has passed in the State House. This is a simple clarification, a simple clarification, so there's not confusion in the future. That's what I see this, and that's why I think it's not the ultimate be-all that has to be here, but I think that it is a convenience, and I think that it is a tool that can be used
 to prevent any confusion in the future, and based on the experience that we've had in our city in the past, anything that can clarify this type of activity I think has value. Therefore, I will support it. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, John. Mr. Mayor, I just want to be sure. I haven't looked up these code sections, Mr. Williams, and since you're the main proponent of the question, I'd ask you this question. Is there a hook in this worm? No.
 Will I regret supporting this and making this motion? I don't think you will unless you pass an ordinance and then it's more easily referred to the voters and there's a repeal section which maybe in the past it wouldn't have had a repeal section. No, this is just straightforward. The reason I brought this forward is because I did not want to have unclarity, unconfusion.
 which does breed litigation. Here, I think it is crystal clear we're going to follow exactly what the county does. That was changed by the legislature, and they suggested the same changes for the city. If that applies to the city, we'll be in compliance with that statute. If it doesn't apply to the cities because of Amendment 7, we're still going to be in compliance because we're following the county. So to answer my question, is there a hook in this worm? There ain't no hook that I can see. Thank you. Okay, anybody else?
 All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. OK. Under new business.
 Number one resolution to award bid number 15 days 23 and to authorize contract cross on heavy contractors corporate any amount of 1,000,014,576 dollars and 50 cents for construction of the upper skull creek drainage improvement project to approve a project contingency in the amount of 152,185 dollars.
 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chairman. Mayor, council, staff is requesting approval of a contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors for construction of Upper Skull Creek drainage improvements. Back in 2008, we hired McClellan Consulting Engineers to perform a study of the drainage area in the Upper Skull Creek Basin.
 This is an area bounded by College Avenue on the west, Lafayette Street on the south, Mission Boulevard on the east, and Rebecca Street on the north. The drainage infrastructure in this area is very old. It was, a lot of it was installed with the old neighborhoods. There it's in very poor condition as well. In several cases, as you can see on the map on page 133 of your packet,
 The storm sewers are actually located underneath homes. So when we have a lot of water coming off of Mount Sequoia in the area, the culverts are undersized, very few access points for maintenance, and heavy storm events produce street flooding. Many yards are flooded in several basements, and homes have been flooded in the area over
 The McClellan study included several recommendations for storm sewer improvements to alleviate these flooding problems. Using these recommendations, we developed some designs and prioritization plan for the improvements that would provide the most benefit to the properties in this neighborhood. The construction contract is for the largest and highest priority project from that drainage study.
 On March 13th, the city received five construction bids. Crossland Heavy Contractors submitted the low bid, which was about 16% below the engineer's estimate of $1.2 million.
 We've accumulated a little over a million dollars through several years of CIP funding for drainage projects. These funds plus an additional $118,000 from our street right of way intersection and cost sharing fund is recommended for funding of the project. The reason we're recommending some of the funds come from that.
 That particular fund is because there's a lot of street work associated with the project. Again, on the map, you'll see that the new line, a portion of the new lines will go underneath Maple Street. There will be some new curb and gutter that will be replaced that's in poor condition. And then Maple Street will also be receiving an asphalt overlay between Wallen and Olive at the completion of the project.
 The project timeframe is 365 days for substantial completions, so right at a year. And we are recommending approval of this contract with Cross and Heavy Construction. What questions do we have for Jeremy? I think that it's important we move forward with this because we do know that this action, this is an important improvement that we need. It has not, we did not take this specific action before the Water Service Committee.
 Mr. Mayor, I received a phone call, not from someone who can vote for me, but from a lady I know in town. She's elderly. She does not drive. She has no car. She's concerned that Skull Creek is eroding her property. It's about under her fence. Anything we could do to help her out, I would be very appreciative of. I can give you a name and an address, Mr. Payne. It's on Skull Creek. Mark, I'm sorry. I couldn't hear you. Did you say the water and sewer did...
 We've talked about the situation. We didn't discuss the specific action. This is a remedy that has been discussed, yes. Expect more. That whole area up from here, is this just something I wanted to do? The erosion is evident.
 it's a rough area it needs to be fixed yes sir yeah i grew up about a block from this and when the rain comes i mean it's just inundated it's really quite scary i've seen storm drains actually blow off of the street um with just the force of water it's it's pretty incredible and you know this is our this is well this is not technically in our um washington willow historic
 district there are a lot of homes with significant historical value in this area so we absolutely need to make this improvement this is something that's been going on for a long time and we sort of worked at getting the funding board over several years and when it really rains hard it really gets out of the banks I mean bad so yeah okay any other comments from council what public comment do we have on this
 I move to pass resolution. Second. Motion second to pass resolution. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Tenet? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 Okay, number two in order to resumption of property described rezoning petition RZN 15-49-53 for approximately 6.8 acres located at 1195 South Curtis Avenue from RSF4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. Viewed ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property
 from RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to RMF24, residential multi-family, 24 units per acre, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here, too, and made a part hereof. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Chairman. This is a rezoning request brought forward by the property owner for property located on Curtis Avenue, which is north of 15th Street. The property currently contains an American Legion post, the Shelton Tucker Craft post, the baseball diamond and associated facilities. A lot split has been requested of the city that would place the American Legion building and the parking area on a separate parcel from the baseball field, which is the parcel that's being requested to be rezoned.
 The request is to resound the property to RMF 24, which is a residential multifamily
 zoning district maximum 24 units per acre. In staff's opinion, this zoning is a compatible land use with surrounding land uses. There are a mixture of low and medium density residential developments adjacent directly to this property. Property to the south is in use with a mobile home park. Properties to the east are currently zoned RMF24 in single family and two family uses.
 City plan 2030 future land use plan designates this site as a city neighborhood area which would support a mixture of zoning densities and a wide spectrum of residential uses.
 recommend this zoning to the city council. The vote is seven to zero. There were four members of the public that spoke at the item at the Planning Commission. Three of those opposed the zoning, citing some concerns with existing criminal activity within their neighborhoods, some loss of property value concerns and traffic issues. The property owner directly to the south was not opposed to the zoning, but simply had questions. Have you answered the questions? Is the applicant here? Would you like to speak before the council? Sure.
 My name's Eric Duca, actually a potential purchaser of the property. Just looking for an opportunity to develop this 6.8 acres. Don't really have any specific plans for it at this point, but we're just looking for a zoning variance at this point. Okay. Is there any questions from the council either to Jeremy or, I'm sorry, your name? It's Eric Duca. Any questions for the? I did have some questions for Jeremy. Okay.
 The one concern that I heard raised about this property, I heard that it is in a wetland area, but looking at the aerial photos, I don't see anything to indicate that would be true. Not that I'm aware of. There are some known drainage issues to the west of this property. It's actually on city-owned property. The Seven Hills facility, which is off of Huntsville Road, quite a ways to the northwest of this property, is all part of a parcel that the city owns.
 And we've made some drainage improvements. There are some other drainage issues within that area. This is sort of the south side of Mt. Sequoia, some of that drainage way coming down to the river to the south. So there are some known drainage issues. I'm not sure that there are any wetlands delineated in the area.
 the property West is primarily cleared fields for the most part is about 70 to 90 acres. I think they're sort of open fields with some clearly delineated drainage patterns through there but no known wetlands that I'm aware of. Thank you. Anybody else? Any questions? Okay. We will take some public comment now. I'd like to address this. I'll go back to the council. I move we go to the second reading.
 Second. Motion to second. Move to second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-4953 for approximately 6.8 acres. Located at 1195 South Curtis Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 I move to go to the third and final reading. Second. In motion to second, we go to the third and final reading. Son, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. An ordinance rezoning that property ascribed in a rezoning petition RZN 15-4953 for approximately 6.8 acres located at 1195 South Curtis Avenue from residential single family four units per acre to residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 I said this at agenda session I was surprised that there was this much land back there and I went out and looked at it and I think to the to the people that might be concerned about crime and things I think a development might actually help because of the open dark land that you know is currently there and I obviously never paid attention to this land
 playing on that field 100 years ago but i think that um this is a good idea so i think we should do it neither did i when i was playing on it 200 years i think we played you guys actually um any other final comments from the council
 I do understand the concern of some individuals of losing a ball field here in the city, but this is much larger when we're looking at the rezoning issue. So I'm going to support it again after looking at the area as a whole. And we certainly don't want to prevent anyone from having access to recreational facilities, but I hope that we're moving forward to handle that with the expansion of our park system.
 You know, I know this was utilized a lot for recreational facilities, but I'm going to support the rezoning. Good. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Loutre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay. Number three, resolution to adopt the Federal Active Transportation Plan to Matt. Matt, I believe you have this. Or, Peter, you have this. Excuse me. Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 telling you about and showing you some of the highlights of the Active Transportation Plan. This Active Transportation Plan is the culmination of a lot of hard work from a lot of individuals and a lot of community input. I'll get to that in just a moment. It essentially replaces the 2003 Fayetteville Alternative Trails and Transportation Master Plan, affectionately known as the FAT Plan.
 This plan sets forth a vision and a roadmap for measuring success for the future of Fayetteville's pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure improvements without prescribing the specific and exact solutions for those infrastructure improvements. Moving forward into the document, you'll see it sets out an ambitious vision for the city where we endeavor to connect.
 construct and connect universally accessible sidewalk trails and on-street bicycle facilities. It will encourage our citizens to utilize non-motorized modes of transportation for safe and efficient transport around our community. Also on this page, you'll also note the six goals listed on the plan. We endeavor to create a multimodal transportation system that's inclusive, build trail connections within a half mile of all of our residents,
 increase our active transportation mode share from seven and a half percent to 15% essentially doubling it connect missing linkages partner with our advocates and earn a bicycle friendly communities designation from the League of American cyclists that is silver by the year 2017 excuse me the plan has been developed with
 numerous stakeholder input as I mentioned. It is the direct result of a regional Bike Walk Northwest Arkansas plan that was produced by the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission late last year. From that plan we began developing a Fayetteville specific plan. As I mentioned it includes input from many stakeholders such as the League of American Cyclists, City Plan, our specific neighborhood plans,
 Bicycle Coalition of the Ozarks, generous input from the public, as well as this plan has been through our Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee, our Active Transportation Advisory Committee, the Planning Commission, and then subcommittee of the City Council, the City's Transportation Committee. It also is the result of hard work and contributions from internal departments such as the Transportation Department, Engineering, Parks and Recreation, Development Services, and Sustainability.
 One of the things that is really exciting about this plan is that it not only lays out a vision moving forward for active transportation infrastructure and networks, but it does a really good job of educating the community and the reader on the case for
 why active transportation is important and what it can do for our community. As an example, on this page you'll see a discussion about what is active transportation. I think active transportation and alternative transportation are two terms that are commonly used synonymously for one another, but alternative transportation is more broad and includes those.
 mode share such as bus and rapid transit and car share. For this plan, we're focusing just on active transportation, primarily bicycling and walking.
 Moving further into the plan, we talk about the history of active transportation network construction in the city of Fayetteville and share with the readers where we've been with that history. Moving a little further into the plan, we share information to try and distill the myth that Fayetteville is too hilly for folks to want a bicycle in our community.
 You can see our trail system only has a slope on average of 2.2%, which is really not all that steep, especially considering the trail corridors, many of them follow our stream corridors, which are generally very flat. Moving a little further into the plan, we share with readers, the plan shares with readers some of the components and the contributions of our on-street bicycling network.
 Also in the plan, it does a really good job of sharing with readers where different treatments, types of treatments for the on-street bicycle network are appropriate. One of the things that this plan does and articulates well, in my opinion, is the need to be context sensitive with those on-street treatments. A bicycle lane is not appropriate for every street in Fayetteville. Some of our arterials are.
 that traffic speeds and traffic volumes are too comfortable for a bicyclist to want to be cycling on the sides of those roads only separated by a thin stripe of paint. And you'll see some of that shown later in the active transportation plan map that Matt will share with us.
 Moving further into the plan, we share some information on the nexus between active transportation and transit and talk about how transit ridership has increased in Fayetteville and how active transportation can really help connect and provide that last mile and half mile of connectivity for a
 robust transit system moving on into the benefits section we share the plan shares the triple bottom line Approach to to the benefits of an active transportation plan and includes a quality of life component and the health sections we talked about the benefits of course of active healthy lifestyle and how choosing to transport oneself I'm using a bicycle or by walking can help improve your health and bring down health care costs and
 One of the items that was discussed a little bit in detail at the Transportation Committee was the economic benefits of an active transportation plan. We highlighted the economic resilience components, how robust active transportation networks can insulate communities due to the fluctuations of fuel prices. We also talk about the potential for economic payback and development along trails, corridors,
 what economic development potential and active transportation infrastructure can bring for communities. Moving into the goals section, again we have six goals associated with the plan. Goal two again talks about wanting to build or striving to build trail connections within a half mile of all the citizens of Fayetteville. You can see that
 The purpose of that is to, again, help provide that connectivity. The plan talks about what a five minute bicycle ride or what a 20 minute walk means in terms of that, the connectivity to those residents in Fayetteville. You can see further in the plan where we show how many of our residents are within that
 are within a half mile of those trail connections under our current trail system moving forward under our five year master plan in 2020 and then at the ultimate build out, you can see the 97% of our residents will be within one half mile of a trail connection which is a really, really an amazing goal.
 Moving on to goal three, we talk about the mode share, current mode share in Fayetteville being at 7.5% bicycling and walking, and how the planned goal is to try and double that mode share. Moving on to goal six, again earning that silver designation from the League of American Cyclists. If you're familiar with how the league rates, not only communities but also businesses and universities, they talk about the five Es.
 of bicycling, that's engineering, education, encouragement, enforcement, and evaluation and planning. I think Fayetteville has traditionally done a really good job in the engineering arena, much to the credit of our trails coordinator, Matt Mihaljevic, and our development services and engineering and transportation divisions. In those other E's we've lagged just a little bit.
 And some of the feedback we've received from the league is that we need to spend greater effort in those other four areas. Moving on into our recommendations section, we break those recommendations out into pedestrian recommendations and bicycle recommendations. In both the pedestrian and the bicycle recommendations, we highlight several of those Es that the league recommends under pedestrian recommendations.
 You can see that engineering and evaluation, using evaluation
 where do we have high pedestrian counts and high pedestrian use to focus those engineering improvements is a staple and very much incorporated into the plan moving into the bicycle recommendations education and encouragement being a strong component of the plan some of those education and encouragement efforts that are highlighted are through the work of the city's bicycle coordinator by promoting our bicycle friendly business
 designation in our community working towards bike share for Fayetteville working with public schools on bicycle education and then a really exciting item that we're working on right now is promoting the month of May as bicycle month in Fayetteville so you'll be seeing a lot more about that moving forward
 In conclusion, the plan, again, is an update of the 2003 FAT Plan, and it really reaffirms the city's commitment to the future of active transportation. It develops a set of realistic goals through specific plans
 action steps, provides a comprehensive approach for planning for pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure and really provides the framework for building a healthy and robust network that'll lead to a more vibrant and active community and really to the benefit of the citizens of Fayetteville. I'd be remiss without
 highlighting some of the individual staff efforts that went into this plan. I'd like to specifically call out the staff of the sustainability department, Lee Porter, who did much of the graphics work associated with the plan, Dana Eifling, our bicycle coordinator, who lended quite a bit of effort in the development of the plan, and then Leif Olson, who's the primary author of the plan, and of course Matt Mihaljevic, who was very much instrumental in the plan development and is now going to talk to you a little bit about the active transportation map that goes along with the plan.
 Thank you, Peter. Thank you, Peter, and your counsel. I'm just going to quickly cover the plan aspect of the document. We had a good foundation with this plan, and it's really done well for us over the years, as is evident with the trail system. And so really this is just an update of it. The public identified a lot of the stream corridors early on, and we've continued to keep those on it.
 One kind of a shift is, and something Peter mentioned earlier, is we found that bike lanes aren't always the most comfortable facility for a lot of our users. And so we're looking at a focus on trying to provide a separated trail type facility in many of these cases along our arterial streets and road systems. So you'll see that reflected in the plan where you see a blue line which is the trail along all the
 lot of those arterial so that's probably the biggest really update into this plan that's that's evident and we will continue to use this plan for our in-house crew as well as when development comes through we evaluate those developments and if they're on the plan then you know work out how they can help us make the connections and continue to build the network so I think that's really the gist of it thank you that's a great job y'all really good what questions do we have in the council
 Great plan a public comment. Do we have on this? See now bring it back to the council and here we are Yes I'd just like to say thank you to the staff Both departments. I know it took a lot of work Between all the departments to put all this together I know it's been in progress for a long time from being an active Transportation Committee I know how much work you put into it Matt and Peter you've worked on this for a long time, too and
 everybody that's worked on it with you. We appreciate it. I move we pass the resolution. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 Okay, number four, an ordinance to amend 33.329, eligibility of citizen volunteers to serve on city boards, commissions, and committees to remove the restriction on the number of consecutive terms a citizen may serve. Kip? Viewed ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 33.329B,
 of Section 33.329, eligibility of citizen volunteers to serve on city boards, commissions, and committees of the Fayetteville Code. Okay, Alan? Well, thank y'all for looking at this. I brought this forward as just something to bring the conversation up and talk about it just a little bit. Thank you, sometimes I can't hear you. When I was looking through this, and I've been considering it for a little over a year,
 I thought to myself, you know, the council has the ability to appoint anyone we choose at the nominated committee level and then by confirmation at the city council. So why do we as holders of a city council office want to put a rule on ourselves that says we can't take someone's application and consider them?
 It just seems arbitrary to me to tell someone in Fayetteville, no, we won't accept your application. I think that we should engage all citizens and let every citizen in Fayetteville have the right to apply. That doesn't necessarily mean we have to appoint them.
 but we should at least let them apply and send that message to everyone that yes we want to engage you on that level we want you to participate in that your long-standing public service if you've been on a board or commission for two terms is appreciated and you can apply again and we'll consider your application and in doing that i think that we'll gather the best pool of applicants possible and we'll be able to pick from them
 and we'll have a healthy, vibrant city just like we do now, but with just a more encouraging application process. I just, I don't wanna send that message that we won't take an application. So that's why I brought this forward. I thought it'd be a good conversation to have and maybe there's some great points on the other side as well, but just wanted to bring it up. Okay, what questions do we have or comments from the council on this? Yes, sir. I'm just curious, who are we not taking applications from currently?
 And a board and commission after someone served two full terms, if there are other applicants for that position, they're not able to apply until they've sat out for an entire term. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, John. You know, just thinking about why would previous city councils have placed that restriction on people who could apply for those jobs?
 I make this observation, number one, when staff brings a nomination or when one of our committees nominates people, I don't know exactly succinctly who's on that committee. It kind of gets a rubber stamp from us, so there's no real scrutiny. I could, if I had time, scrutinize each individual on that list, but a lot of times we do things in one group.
 So someone could continue to be on these committees and we don't get new thinking, we don't get new thoughts, we don't get innovation. We have a set way of doing things and we continue that set way of doing things. I think the reason for such restrictions doesn't say they can't serve again, they just have to take a break.
 In fact, I'd probably be in favor of maybe they could serve in another committee, just to get new thinking, new blood on the committees and keep it circulating. They can, John. They can serve in the committee. Okay, good. Then I would see less of a need to remove the restriction, else we could have committees that become very static in their thinking, in their actions. We don't want that to happen either. We want to be progressive, right? Thank you, John.
 Yes, well, it would. You know I I've looked at both sides and having served in this position as chair. But I I really think that it would require a complete new mindset for the nomination nominations committee because. And that would be a lot of work really you know to have to continue to.
 Like if you had two people who had served and two who had not served, then you've got to make the decision there rather than, and that could be a very tough decision. I certainly see your point and I've thought, as Alderman Tennant said, I've changed my mind several times about it.
 I think at this point I feel that it's a good plan to keep in place what we have in place, and that is look at allowing people to take a break and then they can come back. I know one of our commissioners on the Planning Commission did that, and he got off.
 And he got on two other committees, which I think will make him a stronger planning commission member when he goes back when he applies next time. Okay. Let's take some public comment on this. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Sarah. I'm going to agree with Adela. I think that...
 You know, it's hard to remove someone from a committee, and it's sometimes not even removing them when they've timed out, but maybe just having an opportunity for some new blood and new ideas and innovation. So I think that the term limits are an important part of keeping the boards engaged
 fresh and keeping new ideas there as well as giving people other people in the community an opportunity to serve and get the experience and you know you can currently move to different boards as you know we just saw someone do and I think that his expertise will be very welcome on those boards so it doesn't say you know you can't continue to serve you just need to find a different capacity to do that so I'm not going to support the resolution ordinance
 I appreciate Alderman Long bringing this forward because it is a great conversation, and I think it's a classic argument between we're going to occasionally have someone who has to leave a committee or commission who frankly should because maybe they're not providing very much value to it. That's going to happen, but we're also on the other side going to have people who are really, really good at a certain committee or commission who have to leave.
 leave it so there's no real perfect way to do it and i totally see the point here but i think in order to change the process it needs to be more broken than it is i think the process is cracked but it's not broken um so um i i won't support it but i do understand the uh
 the point in the argument, but I do think people being able to move to other committees is important and Expanding their expertise maybe in another way is important as well. So I but I do think all them along for bringing it forward Okay, well, it's an ordinance Yes Just to address some of those things and you know, I'm not exactly passionate about this but just looking at this from a person that's not on the City Council and
 I think if they looked at us as elected officials and said that we're not able to make those hard decisions of who we appoint and who we don't after getting applications, then they would probably say that we're running a high performance organization and shouldn't be in that position. And then to the point about sometimes we don't have time to scrutinize all those applicants, but the nominating committee does because those are very long meetings.
 I don't think that the nominating committee is incapable of going through all the applications, new applicants and old ones, and not being able to make good ones. It might not have been perfect in the past, and I'm not sure why they did it, but it sure does seem imperfect to say that the city council needs an arbitrary rule to say who they can and cannot accept applications from. We're not saying that.
 We are or are not going to appoint someone. We're just saying that we're going to have an option to look at someone, especially if they're adding value. That's just my perspective. Okay. Well, do you all want to leave it on the second reading or do you want to? Yes. Okay. We want to leave it on the second. I mean, I'm just asking. I need more input on this. In general, I don't want to rush through it because I'm undecided. That's fine. Okay.
 I'm good with that. So y'all just want to leave her out here? Good. And being chairman of the nominating committee, I need to get... Yeah, Mr. First. Yeah. That's fine. Okay. Moving along to number five. In order to enact Article 27, Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Federal Code. Kip? This is easier but longer. Okay.
 Whereas the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals was created by Ordinance No. 2251 on July 6, 1976, and whereas the original ordinance has been amended to change the name and composition of the board, which is now called the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, but these provisions have never been codified.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enacts Article 27, Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals in Chapter 33, Department, Boards, Commissions and Authorities, as shown below. Section 33.390, Composition Membership.
 The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall consist of seven full members appointed by the City Council each for a term of five years ending on March 31st. Appointments shall be staggered. Two alternate members shall also be appointed by the City Council each for a term of five years ending on March 31st. Four members which may include alternate members of the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall constitute a quorum.
 Proceedings of the Construction Board, subsection 33.391, Proceedings of the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, subsection A, the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall adopt rules necessary for the conduct of its affairs. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals may determine.
 All meetings shall be open to the public. Subsection B. The Construction Board of Adjustment Appeals shall keep minutes in its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, which shall be a public record and be filed in the office of the building safety director after their approval. Subsection, Code Section 33.392, Administrative Review.
 The Construction Board of Adjustment Appeals shall hear and decide appeals pursuant to its authority under Section 115.06D of the Fayetteville Code. We've had this board 40, 50 years. Long time. Long time. 40 years, I guess. You've been here the whole time. No, I actually was not here at the time they did it, although I was in law school. I had not quite graduated yet.
 And, but for some reason they decided they just never put it in the code. And we thought it's an important board, it meets very rarely, and that's why we have alternate members because sometimes it's hard to get a quorum. And they decide very technical issues in construction. That's why many of the people here are contractors and other professionals.
 And sometimes there's an issue about whether this current builder must comply with some code section that we have in the building code or something like that. And it really needs the expertise of the specialist to know the importance of why that code section says what it was and then how the contractor wants to do it and accomplish it. But that happens very rarely. We felt like this was an important board and so it therefore should be in the code. Okay. What questions do we have on this?
 anybody got any questions from the point of the nominating committee i think that what we thought is after receiving this is it was just an oversight at the time for it not being codified codified and so this is a correction so that there is certainly the power behind the expectation of what we have for this technical board yes do you have a question we have several boards or commissions that are not codified don't we
 Well, we don't have too many, but this is not just an advisory board. This is a powerful board like the Board of Adjustment, not maybe as powerful as the Planning Commission maybe and the A&P Commission, but it's a powerful board. You know, we don't have to codify every single citizen volunteer board that's merely advisory. We have a lot of them codified. But that's not necessarily nearly as important as a board like this that makes final decisions, basically.
 That was my question. I just wondered if we needed to codify more of them or not. We had most of them codified, and actually that's just your choice. You can do what you want to do, but this one I felt like really needed to be codified. I think that what Kip points out there is the authority that this board has compared to just an advisory capacity. Anything else? Is there any public comment on this?
 Okay, bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Littner? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. In Ordinance to an Act, Article 27, Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville Code. We move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 March yes, yes Yes, yes, right Yes in order to enact article 27 construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals in Chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities Of the fable code any final comments from the council on this Thunder would you please call the roll Mars? Yes. Yes Yes, yes Yes, okay
 Number six an ordinance to amend 110 point zero one bill posting yep Whereas the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals has held that municipalities may not prohibit the posting of bills notices advertisements or similar documents on vehicles when parked in street parking spaces and a fable code should therefore be updated comply with this ruling and
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 110.01 of the Fayetteville Code by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement Section 110.01 as shown below. Section 110.01, bill posting.
 In order to prevent litter, protect the beauty of Fayetteville, and preserve private property owners' rights, no bill, notice, advertisement, or similar document may be posted, stuck, painted, attached, or allowed or caused to be posted, stuck, painted, or attached to or upon a. any utility or light pole or government traffic, directional, or other sign b.
 B, any private property, including a building, fence, wall, pole, sign, or other structure, without first having obtained express permission from the owner of such property. C, any public property, without having first obtained express permission of the public entity which owns or controls such property. D, any vehicle located in an off-street parking lot, if the parking lot owner has installed a sign prohibited such bill postings.
 This is pretty similar to what we already have, but we had to remove the reference to cars parked on the street. I can't really explain exactly why the Supreme Court apparently feels like that's a public forum for people to put stuff on your windshield.
 But ours is to reason, just to obey and not reason why. So we need to remove this. I can say this has a memory. I remember when this was passed because my co-alderman, that was his major thing that he was really interested in because we had a very serious litter problem around the Dixon Street area.
 and it was mainly bands going around just littering poles and cars and everything else with with bill postings and so when we enacted this actually that stopped so it was very effective for what it wanted to do and I hope it will remain effective however we cannot go beyond what the Supreme Court tells us we can do and or the 8th Circuit which is over us and so I recommended that we
 take out that one offending provision and leave everything else in and that's what we've done. Okay, what questions do we have for Ken on this? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? And that'll bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latorre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 In Ordinance to Amend, Section 110.01, Bill Posting. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. LeTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Greit. Yes. In Ordinance to Amend, Section 110.01, Bill Posting. Any final comments from the Council on this? Okay.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Lature? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Okay, number seven, an ordinance to amend 72.03, parking prohibited in certain places of the Federal Code by enacting a new subsection to prohibit parking on a city street in front of and blocking a mailbox. Kitt?
 Be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council the city of a lark saw hereby amend section 72 point o 3 parking prohibited in certain places of the fable code by enacting a new subsection. Oh, I
 as shown below, subsection O, on a city street in front of and blocking a mailbox from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. I will say this was presented to me by Alderman Long, and we made a couple changes before we finally got it to you, but in looking at it right before the meeting
 I noticed another change that should be made. I haven't got it written up yet, though, unfortunately. We also don't want to prohibit parking in front of mailboxes on any federal holiday because the mail's not going to be delivered then. But I don't have that wording yet, and it would be a complex sentence, so I think I will have a whole new sentence on that. Otherwise, they won't know what's modifying what. And one thing I don't want to do is make it unclear if I can avoid it.
 So I could come try to come forwarding right now or not. I mean, it's, I'll leave it now to Alan. Well, I appreciate y'all looking at this. I'm getting to talk almost as much as Kit tonight, which is abnormal. I had a constituent who had a concern and it was going on for a while and they weren't able to get their bills, which caused some financial problems for them and their neighbor is someone who did not want to assist them in that. And by assist, I mean move their vehicle.
 And so they emailed me to find out if they could get a copy of the ordinance so that they could show it to their neighbor because they wanted to have just a nice conversation. And so I emailed the police chief and I said, could I get a copy of this? Because I was for sure that it was codified and the police chief thought it was codified as well. And we found out that it's not. So there's nothing they can enforce. So we were looking for the most.
 or the most lenient way we could enforce this, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. was put there for on Monday through Saturday just because that's when the post service delivers. That's what this is for. I'll motion to make an amendment to add a sentence stating that- You want me to raise your motion? Yes, for an exclusion. Okay.
 Here's what I propose, which would just be a second sentence there. This prohibition of parking shall not be applicable or enforced on any day that the United States Postal Service does not deliver mail such as all federal holidays. And that way if there's some other reason they wouldn't be delivering mail, then it's not going to be enforced that day either. So do we have a second on that? Second. I'll second. Well, that would be for the amendment only.
 Yeah, this is for the amendment. I like the broadness of the amendment, Mayor, because I expect the mail service to stop Saturday deliveries any time now. That's true. They might. And I wouldn't want to be enforcing this when they're not delivering mail. And this way we don't have to come back and change it. Right. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'm sorry. Yes, this is on the amendment now. Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive.
 I'm just trying to think about my own neighborhood. So no one can park in front of the little black mailboxes from 8 to 5 when the post office might come through? Is that the intent of the ordinance? I believe that is true. That's what the ordinance says. Yeah, I mean, I live in a covenant control community and we don't do a lot of parking in the street, but I'm just wondering, have merchants been contacted about this in terms of people who come to replace air conditioners or do things like this?
 i mean you could have a truck parked in front of your house or a lawn care service or something like that again this is not it sounds like a good idea and it's not a moral kind of issue but i just want to know what are the impacts on merchants going to be and i'm not a merchant so that's my
 Good point. I actually did think about that. Okay. Because when, usually when a service provider's coming to your home or residence, wherever it may be, to work on your air conditioner, they're, you know, they're back and forth between their truck and they can move it usually for mail delivery person. And that's not someone who's repeatedly parking there day after day to prevent someone from being able to get their mail, so that would be much less of an issue.
 That's someone who would just be coming in one day and not repeatedly parking there because they live in the neighborhood and don't have enough parking. I did counsel Alderman Long that sometimes it's good to have more eyes on something like this because there could be ramifications through the city. In fact, I said that, I said please note that there may be some streets in Fayetteville which have so many mailboxes and private driveways which you also can't park in front of.
 that the ordinance might effectively prohibit all street parking from 8 to 5 Monday through Saturday on those streets. Now, keep in mind also that a lot of times people go off to work, and so they've got their cars with them, and then they come home after 5, and so maybe they don't need to park there. But this is something, this is a major change in the city, and so it might be something that you'd want to leave.
 So that your constituents have a chance to comment to you about whether they had any particular concerns that we might be able to address. I agree with that. Well, right now, we're just addressing the amendment of the federal holidays. That's true. Adding that. I mean I'm sorry. That's right. No, no, I'm just You're right, but I should have only addressed that. Okay. Chief, have you had some burning desire to speak or I do, but not about the amendment. Okay. Okay. Chief? Yes? Yes.
 All right. So we have a motion and a second to pass the amendment to exclude federal holidays. Is that? And any other time the United States Postal Service would not deliver mail. Okay. All right. That too. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Luttre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 I know. We're going to get to him. What do you got, Chief? Just from an enforcement standpoint, I do have concerns about what Ultimer Long just said about the service providers because if an officer happens to come right down the street two seconds after that air conditioning guy goes in the house, the potential is there for that vehicle to get a citation for prohibited parking. So that is something we need to give some thought about strictly from an enforcement standpoint. Can I ask a question?
 Sure. So the person who would generally be complaining, because this would be a complaint-driven ordinance, the person who would generally be complaining about their mailbox being blocked would be the person who called that service. That's the first I've heard about it being complaint-driven. This doesn't say it's only complaint-driven. Normally our zoning ordinances are complaint-driven, but all the rest, this is no parking. Our parking, that whole section that this is subsection O in.
 So you see there's a lot of other prohibited places. None of that is complaint driven. It's all because of officer sees somebody's illegally parking. I'll finish what I was going to say. Sure, absolutely. Is that I live in Waterman Woods. We have a stop sign. And at 25 feet back from that, there
 Many times the people from the church they park there along, you know, very close to the stop sign They're supposed to be 30 feet back and I've called a police officer for my neighbors many times because that's I say I'll be the bad guy if you want me to even though I don't want to
 And usually the police officers say, well, we'll just stick around and talk to them, and they don't issue citations. So has that changed? No, I'm not saying that it's changed. Officers use discretion every single day of the world, whether it be a parking ticket, a speeding ticket, an arrest of some sort. I'm just telling you that potential is out there for that vehicle that's the server, the plumber, the air conditioner guy to get a ticket if he's parked in front of a mailbox. Okay, thank you. I'll make a note on that.
 I'm sorry. Well, and if you just would allow them there, the post office might decide to drive down the street right then and if they're blocking the mailbox, they're not getting the mail. Okay. Well. Mr. Mayor, if I could. Yes. I did want it to be left on the first reading if possible. Oh, okay. Because that's something that I want to. I think we've had a few. Yeah, Peter, hang on. Give me just a second. We're going to get public comment here just in a minute, okay? Anything else from the council? Okay. Okay. Come on.
 I want to be sure they were all done. Yes sir, Peter Towneson, 3500 Hearthstone. I grew up in New York City where parking is huge. People have actually been murdered in disputes over parking spaces where somebody shoveled it out and somebody else came in and took the space. It's a huge deal. And they have opposite side of the street parking rules so there can be street cleaning and snow removal and it's a huge deal.
 And again, I don't really have a point to make except this is all about the post office. So essentially you're saying that for the one minute that the postal driver comes by and stops at that box and drops the mail in the box, you're restricting parking for nine hours a day.
 And again, it's sort of a metaphysical point. I don't really care and I'm gonna leave now if that makes anybody happy. No, no. It's just if that's the only. Stay as long as you want, Peter. Again, this is an issue that where you can make arguments both ways in terms of enforceability and potential for conflict, interference with commerce.
 a convenience to the post office because they don't have people walking routes like when i was a kid they do just drive by and stick the mail in the box so anyway good luck thank you thank you mayor let me take the rest of the public did you have a question for him john no let me get public any other anybody else want to speak on this and i'll bring back the couch
 The domestic mail delivery handbook says that customers must keep the approach to their mailboxes clear of obstructions to allow safe access for delivery if USPS employees are impeded in reaching a mail receptacle, the postmaster may withdraw delivery of service. As far as they're concerned, it puts it all on the customer. But if it's not you parking there or a service person parking there, if it's somebody else down the street, it seems like this would give...
 I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word.
 My second point would be this. We're citing one case where someone's being blocked. I hate to change the rule for the whole city because there's one isolated case. And we have survived as a city since, I had my secretary look it up, it was 1834 or so, without the regulation. Are we sure we need it now?
 i always default toward let's not pass a law if we don't need one maybe we could resolve it without such a dramatic change that's all i guess i'm not real passionate about the other yes chief
 Well, I just want to say that this is not just one isolated case. I mean, it's the one isolated case we're talking about. However, this does occasionally come up. I won't say it comes up once a week or once a day, but I mean, it does come up several times a year. And I can tell you it's very frustrating for the residents that we deal with when, you know, somebody's parked in front of their mailbox for several days in a row. And we go out there and say, sorry, there's nothing we can do. They have a hard time understanding that.
 And so it's not just a single isolated incident. It does occasionally happen and has throughout the years. Thank you. Yes, Adela. I would think that once we get it in place, everyone would, you know, the business people as well as residents and everyone would follow it, I think. I thought it was, I'm just like Alan and the chief, I thought we already had the rule on the book. So I will be supporting it.
 Well, yes, Justin. Yeah, I still think it's a good idea we hold it and give it some more time and get some publicity out there because I think there's good and bad to it. So I appreciate us holding it. Are we going to hold it on the first reading here? Yes, Al. And I'd just like to add something else for everyone else to toss around. And like the Chief said, it wasn't one isolated incident. And during our Ward 4 meeting, actually, someone texted me.
 I sat there for a minute and I thought, well, I'm in a meeting, I can't answer this right now. And then I got another one from the same person. I thought, well, I better look at it. And it was actually someone who lived about three blocks from me and it was her elderly father. She said, these people are parking in front of his mailbox every day and he's disabled and he couldn't get his mail. And it was just kind of strange timing that I got it the week that I, you know, I was
 brought this up actually a day after the first person called me. So it does happen more often than not, but I've got all these things down and I'll try to work on it a little bit more. But I do have one more general question. When I was working on this, outside the entertainment district, parking, for instance, no parking on this side of the street, I guess I'm a little confused. I thought those were complaint driven.
 I mean, there's no one that patrols it. Our parking enforcement doesn't patrol it. Well, our police officers patrol the entire town. And so if they see something and if they have time, if they're not on their way to a much more high priority call, then they certainly can't enforce a no parking without anybody calling up. It's illegal everywhere, including the entertainment district, to block somebody's driveway.
 So I imagine that if the police saw that even if the person was not there, but if somebody's blocked their driveway I bet they're gonna get a ticket Thanks, I'll keep working on it Okay, so we're gonna leave it on the first reading right Okay. All right Tonight I conclude your business what announcements do we have tonight? Okay That
 mayor the city is currently taking input on a survey for our citizens to provide comments on trash reduction diversion and recycling the city encourages our residents and businesses to provide input by completing the online survey which can be found on accessfabville.org
 or through recyclesomething.org. Both locations have links to the survey. That survey is open until May the 1st to provide input. The city is also accepting sealed bids for the purchase of two residential properties that the city council has put for sale that were acquired as a part of the Gully Park expansion.
 properties are located at 2. 2634 and 2648 old wire road. And bids are due before Monday May the 4th in contact the city's purchasing office for more details if you're interested in acquiring this property. Which you probably say this is a once in a lifetime opportunity for citizens to live right next to one of our prime parks beautiful area.
 Send your money in. You've been considered resigned. You should be a real estate agent. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.