Thank you.
 Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Wiedecker. Here. Verna. Here. Bunch. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to you.
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, liberating, not just for all. All righty then. Welcome, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the Advertising and Promotion Commission appointment. Sonia, do you have that? Ratification. Ratification.
 I will get it together here. It's all right. Let's see here. Do you think we could come back? I can come back. That would be great. All right, just don't let me forget to come back. I won't let you forget. All right. Let's take the monthly finance report, Paul Becker.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for the month of February, so that's month number two in fiscal 2023. Again, the report's positive. As far as sales taxes are concerned, on a year-to-date basis, sales taxes are up 9.22%.
 If you remember at the last meeting, Council Member Turk asked me to remind you where we are when I said sales tax is a partial indicator on our ability to fund the salary increases you approve.
 Going forward in the fiscal year. Well at that point in time. I said sales taxes would have to increase roughly 9.23 percent roughly where nine point two two percent at this point in time So we're pretty well on track to be where we had expected at this point in time Hopefully that will continue in the future franchise fees are up roughly
 10%. Building permits through February were extremely strong. They were 90% over what they were last year as they had some really record submissions. It's leveling off a little bit, but it's still very positive going forward. But as of February, we were almost double to what we had expected in the budget.
 Fees for parks, they were kind of level for this time of year compared to last year. Quark fees, they were up roughly 30% compared to what we had anticipated. Now, that's not a large revenue generator, but if we remember for about the last three years, quark fees had been down. So they are showing positive interest. Earnings are up a little bit. So all in all,
 We're up in total revenue about 8.1% in the general fund. And the biggest driver of that is sales tax, as we talked about. For the street fund, street fund, remember, has been very strong for the last two years.
 It's starting to level out, and it was essentially flat. Motor fuel tax turn back from the state was down a bit. The half-cent sales tax on gasoline, that was up. And so that kind of offset it. So we're pretty flat compared to budget at this point in time in the street fund.
 Parking fees. Parking fees were up 7% in total. Parking fees themselves were up roughly 12%. The fines were way down, so people are doing what they're supposed to and not being fined for parking too long. But all in all, we're up 7% in the parking fund, so that's positive. HMR fees. We're still seeing a lot of strength.
 and hotel, motel, and restaurant usage. That was up 25% for the two months so far through February.
 So that was strong at this point in time. Water and sewer fund is pretty flat. It's about 1% in Billings up. So actually, the usage is a little down. It's pretty flat compared to where we were. It was a little down in sewer and a little up in water. But it's pretty flat compared to what we had estimated in the budget. Trash and recycling was down 10% from expectation. And the major reason?
 for this is because the transfer station was down for most of the month of February. So that was a negative. And also, some of the commodity prices were down through February, especially cardboard. Aluminum we sell in truckloads. Once we get them, we didn't have a full truckload, so we didn't have any sales in aluminum. So that'll come back a bit when we come to March and April.
 But all in all, commodity prices were down a little bit. Once we open the transfer station, which we have, things should pick up. But as of now, recycling and trash collection is down through February.
 The airport sales were up in dollars, roughly 30% compared to last year. Essentially, though, the number of gasoline sales itself on a gallon-inch basis was pretty flat. So that's basically driven by inflation.
 But it's positive this year. So all in all, we're still looking pretty good through the month of February. Again, I'll come back with the next report in March. But at this point in time, we're looking pretty well on track to what our expectations had been. Actually, we're a little up from there. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul? Anything? You ready to go, son? I'm ready. Thank you. I don't have any questions for Paul. Do you have a question? Okay.
 I don't. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. So you're ready to go on the report? Whenever you're ready. All right. Go ahead. Okay. All right. Let's see here.
 So the nominating committee has decided to go ahead and reappoint Catherine Kinney to the Advertising and Promotion Commission. At the March 27, 2023 AMP Commission meeting, the commission recommended that the city council approve the following appointment. Catherine Kinney won tourism industry term ending 3-31-27 and the committee unanimously approved that reappointment.
 And we are recommending for the City Council to accept this nomination. So is that a motion? I move that we approve this recommendation. Second. I have a motion and a second to approve the recommendation. Any discussion? Thank you. Okay. All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Arby's.
 Yes, Jones. Yes, or yes, we dicker. Yes, Erna Yes, lunch hurt. Yes, Pittsburgh. Yes Thank you all let's go on to the consent agenda number one approval of the March 21st 2023 City Council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with W er Northwest Arkansas
 pplc pursuant to our rfq 22-10 in the estimated amount of thirty nine thousand dollars for architectural design services related to the multiple city facilities improvements number three a resolution to authorize the addition of a full-time equivalent position to the economic Vitality Department to approve budget adjustments
 Number four, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of inspection and repair services from Stribling Equipment to inspect and repair various equipment as needed through the end of 2023. Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Bobcat S64 skid steer from Williams Tractor Incorporated in the amount of $53,036.30.
 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract and approved budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $41,043.72, plus any applicable taxes and freight charges for the purchase of four salt spreaders from Downe Eastern Manufacturing for use by the Transportation Department.
 Number seven, a resolution to accept, quote, any amount of $628,709.11 plus any applicable taxes, freight charges, for marginal and municipal equipment for the purchase of one Peterbilt refuge truck and one Freightliner refuge truck pursuant to it.
 Sourcewell Co-operative Purchasing Contract Number 8, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with DFI Technologies Incorporated to provide for the purchase and warehousing of envelopes in the amount not to exceed $42,037 in 2023. Number 9, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the contract with GTS Incorporated in the amount of $59,423.
 $6.31 to provide for additional materials testing services for the replaced parking deck and to approve a budget adjustment this 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project number 10 a resolution authorized mayor Jordan signed a grant agreement accepting a Certified local government grant through the Arkansas historic preservation program in the amount of twenty thousand three hundred seventy dollars in
 for the preparation of a historic context statement for the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods and to approve budget adjustments. Number 11, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with Kareemah Pilot Services LLC for office space in the airport terminal building in
 corporate hangar space at 4500 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $5,411.60 per month. And number 12, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,812 for a stormwater education program
 for 2023 to satisfy portions of the NPDES Phase II stormwater permit requirements. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Warren?
 Hertzberg yes, okay. Thank you all let's go down finish business
 Number one an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-002 located southeast of North Gregg Avenue and West Elm Street Ward 2 for approximately 1.71 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and RIU residential intermediate
 Urban subject to a bill of assurance This was left on the second reading. I will entertain the motion to go to the third and final reading so move Second second we have a motion the second to go to the third and final reading Jackson, which please call Rob Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes or yes Whitaker yes Yes, lunch. Yes. Yes Yes
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-2 located southeast of North Great Avenue and West Elm Street in Ward 2 for approximately 1.71 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre and RIU residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance Jonathan. Thank You mayor
 I do have a brief presentation. Jonathan Kurth, the City's Development Services Department. Given the additional detail added to this request, I wanted to make sure it was clear what the City Council was considering, especially in light of the applicant proposing a perhaps amended bill of assurance for the Council's consideration tonight.
 Starting at the highest level, of course, the property in question is on the southeast corner of Elm and Gregg. The original request that was considered by staff and the Planning Commission included a portion of that property in the southeast corner could be rezoned to RI12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre, with the balance of the property on the corner to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 At the last council meeting there was a bill of assurance offered and accepted by council What that did is added a different dividing line on the property one included that corner at Gregg and Elm that would not be subject to the bill of assurance and the remainder of the property would be subject to a bill of assurance that limited building heights to two stories and only allows single-family homes either on their own or in the cluster-housing development style
 What's being proposed tonight by the applicant, of course I'll let them expand on it, is to modify the bill of assurance such that that original area in the southeast corner, which restricted uses to single-family homes, would remain the same and the restriction to two-story dwellings would be expanded to the entire property.
 I hope that adds some clarity to it. I'm happy to pull this back up as needed. I'm of course available for any questions and I believe Brian Teague and Tim Bryzell are here as the applicants for the item, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I am representing Tim Bryzell. He is also here this evening. He's the property owner.
 and future developer of the property. City Council, I ask you to vote this evening and approve this rezone request. If you do, this will give us the tools that we need to build attainable housing in Fayetteville at a time and a place where we need it more than ever.
 With the precedent images that I showed you at the last meeting, we plan to build smaller scale, more livable houses with front porches, with properly designed space between the buildings. This is a great infill location. It's on one of the busier north-south corridors in Fayetteville. There's a long list of walkable destinations nearby.
 If you give us the tools that we need to build attainable housing, this will discourage suburban sprawl on the edge. It will preserve farms and forests on the edge of town, which will better water quality in both the Illinois and the White River watersheds. The drainage concerns brought up throughout this process have been overstated.
 The city has a streamside protection zone. It has a, well the Corps of Engineers have long since implemented flood management zones to protect, regulate development in more vulnerable, lower lying areas. We are in neither of those zones. We're not in the streamside protection zone. We're not in the flood management, any flood management zones.
 The City's Drainage Criteria Manual, which is one of the most progressive in all of the United States, would regulate any development on this property. We will use that to design drainage improvement, which will do as intended. It will improve the drainage situation on the property as well as on downstream property owners.
 This property is extremely similar to Willoughbyen property, to the Willoughbyen property, which we partnered with the city to build streets and houses. A lot of that has been built.
 already. We use the city's drainage criteria manual to implement drainage improvements on that property. We did just that. I would argue that the drainage situation there is better now that's been developed. It's also better for downstream property owners. We've done our best to work with the neighbors to garner their support for this proposal. We
 I think Sunday evening it was, our most recent meeting with them. We generally talked about the bill of assurance and how the bill of assurance in itself will regulate density on the property by restricting most of the property to single family house use type and by restricting development on the property to a two-story height limit.
 Other things, I think that's more of a form-based approach that we pulled from the city plan of a way to regulate density through building type and height. It's more about the space between the buildings. The other thing that stemmed from that meeting with the neighbors, they asked us to extend the building height restriction across the whole property. And we've agreed to do that.
 We've revised the bill of assurance. We've presented that to you. I would ask that you guys accept the revised bill of assurance. And city council, I would ask that you approve the rezone request this evening. This will give us the tools that we need to build attainable housing in Fayetteville. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Is there any questions?
 From the city council for the applicant or the staff? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. You stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Thank you. I'm Peggy Conard. I live at 102 East Elm Street. Thank you.
 I'm part of the Elm Street Neighborhood group and we have worked with Tim and Brian a lot. It's been pretty friendly most of the time and we definitely have some differences. They are both men, people who I'd say that I do like meeting with and that there are certainly a lot of things I like about them but not necessarily about this zone change.
 But I talked two weeks ago that my goal has been to keep our neighborhood a healthy place, healthy soil, healthy air, healthy water, healthy to raise children in. And I'm aware that we must have some infill and there is a need for homes and I can certainly see that happening on this piece of property. We do want a neighborhood though that incorporates new neighbors that they're a part of us.
 I think that we are certainly open, many of us, to Greg Street becoming a place for those triplexes and having access to good roads, bus, transportation, etc. It may not be what I want, but it certainly makes sense to many of us and we totally have supported that, I think, from the beginning, most of us, even though I'm sure you can find someone who doesn't.
 The other side of that is once this zone change is passed, legally the number of houses that would be allowed in that RUI and RI-12, there would be just too many. I have seen Tim's work and I have seen Brian's and I like the houses that they built.
 I like the style that he's talking about. I like the bill of assurance that they've done. I think that they have listened and heard that part. They have been just unwilling at this time to do any kind of zoning. Like our neighborhood, most of us really hoped that we could work out the RSF-8.
 and have just less density. We just don't see the kind of density they're asking for on that acreage. Because we believe that it would be easier to be apart and keep that neighborhood feeling where we all know each other than the density that I'm afraid would take over.
 and I've always wanted this development to become a model of creating healthy neighborhoods and I really hope that we would set that precedent working with Tim and Brian Legacy Ventures and that may continue to happen. I don't know, I know that
 that they could never really give us a number of houses. That was very difficult for our neighborhood that we could never be told how many houses there would be. It made it very difficult for us to support this change without knowing the number because once that zoning happens, we're out of the picture as far as what they build there and how much.
 One thing that happened with the Planning Commission that I would like to address is that when there is a change in zoning requested, only the neighbors on each side of whatever development get a notice. So only one of our neighbors even got a notice that there was a zoning change and the sign for the zoning change was as much in the yard for the duplexes as it was for that little piece of wood. So I think that it would be important that our neighborhood
 know when the when Tim and Brian figure out what they're doing and have to go to each department and get approval or back to the Planning Commission however all that works, which I do not know.
 I think we should be, but things that we would be able to give feedback about, we have to have a way of knowing that because we do not at this point except for one family home. And I don't know what we do about that. But that did not work for us because we did not go to the planning meeting because we had absolutely actually no idea. Yeah.
 That is one problem I think that caused us to show up here and not at the Planning Commission which I think maybe some of this could have been worked out. So our biggest issue with any of this is that we could never get a number for how many houses would actually be built, which makes it hard for most of us to support it at this time. And therefore we do not want to see that zoning changed.
 And I don't know where we go from here, but that's the stopping place for us at this time. That's what has caused the stalemate, even though many of our meetings with Tim and Brian have worked, and we have got some things we really wanted, and hopefully they got some things from us they also needed, but without knowing what they mean when they say their density. Thank you very much. I think you get that point anyway. Who else would like to address this?
 I'm Robert Ginsburg. Excuse me. I live at 40 East Elm Street. Our neighborhood has had several more meetings, as you have heard, since the last council meeting, as well as phone conversations with the developers and another face-to-face brainstorming session with them last Sunday, as mentioned.
 Our discussions have been enlightening, confusing at times, but always respectful and with a common goal of finding mutually agreeable solutions. The primary concerns, as you have heard, of the neighborhood continue to be the questions of density on a transitional piece of property with serious challenges regarding runoff and a convoluted layout of
 of the lot lines and the interface of this development with a well-established single-family neighborhood. Building height has been an additional concern and it is my understanding as you've mentioned tonight that the developers are offering to add this to their bill of assurance and
 a two-story limit to the structures they intend to build and for that we are very grateful. It is an indication of the back and forth and the efforts to accommodate all of the issues.
 The consensus among neighbors is in agreement with the developers that the .48 acre parcel that's on the corner of Elm and Gregg is best suited for this proposed triplex area. Limiting them to two stories will help that aesthetic and maintain a horizon for the nearest single family home that adjoins that lot. And that was a great agreement to come to.
 The remaining 1.32 acres designated for single-family homes remains the greatest concern regarding the density. The builder contends that without an R-12 zoning, they will not be able to configure and lay out the development with the flexibility that they require. I have tried to educate myself on the zoning laws and what I'm about to say has to do with my understanding of that.
 Our neighborhood is acutely aware that the council's position that once rezoning is approved, it's not the council's place to limit or restrict the owner's plans other than as directed by code, easements, etc. And we respect that position and the autonomy that's allowed to the developers. I think that's as it should be. But it's also for that reason that we counter-proposed a rezoning for the single-family home area only,
 to be RSF 8. Our neighborhood feels that 8 to 10 homes on that parcel would assure a reasonable and livable addition to the existing neighborhood and that RSF 8 zoning would not only provide the desired flexibility for design, but it would also ensure that the parcel would achieve reasonable density and not be overdeveloped.
 RSF8, again this is my understanding, will allow for the cluster development that the developers requested as a conditional use option. The lot widths and lot areas remain essentially the same for these zonings as I understand them and as I read today. The building area remains the same. So the primary limitation of the RSF8 compared to the RI12 has to do with this density issue.
 The developers have been unable to share their intentions in that regard for reasons having to do with the aforementioned uncertainties surrounding this parcel. What are the requirements are going to be? What kind of street layouts and setbacks and all of those things? And that's understandable.
 It's therefore my position that accommodating a reasonable development with options for the builders and assurances for the community are best met with an RSF 8 rezoning on the 1.32 acres along with the original bill of assurance and additional agreements to be added to that document as you did tonight and the RIU zoning for the .48 parcel on the corner of Elm and Gregg.
 I will add that it has been an interesting process and one that you're probably much more familiar with than I am in terms of developers and neighborhoods coming together to negotiate this and
 I understand the frustrations for the developer. I used to be in the building trades, and I also understand some of the confusion that came about with some of the plot maps and some typographical errors that made big differences, so we had to come up to speed to understand all this. I appreciate your consideration on both sides of this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I don't live in this particular neighborhood, but I do live on the west side of town where immediately adjacent to my neighborhood we're getting 80 to 100 new houses built. Growth and change is all over town and we've got to be able to incorporate it everywhere. There's a couple of things that I've heard
 in the ongoing discussion on this one that I think need to be addressed and spoken to from the broader city perspective and In general, I hope that you will support this development But I hope that you'll not reamend or adopt to the updated bill of assurance. I think the the conditions in the bill of assurance are
 make a lot of sense for the current development, but I think that they also match what the developer is planning to do anyway. What they also do is tie those same restrictions to run with the land in perpetuity so that in 60 or 100 years from now when the nature of the neighborhood may have changed or the needs of the city and the housing needs may have changed, we'll still be stuck with what we commit to tonight. The zoning should be sufficient.
 The policies in our development code are there for a reason to ensure that we have good quality development, and I think that's good enough So I hope that you'll Reject the bill of assurance, but but continue ahead with the development regardless. I think it was said last week that I
 the drainage challenges here are maybe more than our drainage codes can manage. And it's been said that our drainage codes are insufficient for the needs of our city, but some of the folks who say that have been on this council for going on five years and haven't proposed major changes to them. I think if we continue to use
 Codes aren't good enough as a reason to deny development, but we don't make any moves to change the codes That starts to look Like a threat of being arbitrary and capricious one of the neighbors tonight said that this was just too many houses and and while I Can understand that feeling because like I said in my neighborhood. We're having another neighborhood bigger than ours built right next door it feels like a lot but I
 i push back and say with the the housing situation in this city right now is there any such thing as too many houses we we have been decades behind in building to keep up with our population growth and the population growth is speeding up if we aren't speeding up our housing development with it we're going to be in a world of hurt citywide
 So this isn't about what we want or like personally. It's what we need as a city, and that's your responsibility tonight to make sure that we are all doing our part to incorporate and share the burden to meet the needs of the whole city and our whole population. Thank you very much, and I hope you'll support the development no matter how the building assurance turns out. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Council. Thanks for having us.
 Again, my name is Robert Coffin. I live on Elm Street in Erston. It's a cul-de-sac of eight homes. We also have a cul-de-sac off of Elm Baker Street, which is also comprised of eight homes. Tim Breisel's family and I go way back. We churched together, and today we see a lot of his work, and his DNA is wonderful construction and development. This piece of land, I'm a former realtor as well.
 And I see a lot of overdevelopment in some areas. And I hope and trust that this piece of property is not deemed worthy of RI-12. I think it's a win-win that we are standing our ground at RSF-8, where the developer can build 8 to 10 homes on 1.32 acres. We know we don't have any contention with RIU.
 But we understand there are better pieces of property that can dictate higher development. We only have two cul-de-sacs on Elm. It's a very short street. It runs parallel just south of Township. It's a cut through for people to get where they want to go south or east via College and Ash. It's a cut through for Township, and people drive rather quickly. We have 12 kids in the neighborhood.
 And with this development, I trust we'll have more families and more kids, which is a plus. But I don't believe that overdevelopment on this particular piece of property with one egress on Gregg Street, a major thoroughfare, is justifiable. We're hoping RSF 8 is a win-win for both parties. And I appreciate your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Yes, sir.
 Okay, Susan, who do you have on Zoom? I have Aaron Madden. Okay, go ahead. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, a little louder would be better. Yeah, please. Okay. Hi, yeah, my name is Aaron Madden. I live on Green Valley, so not right on Elm, but close to it and definitely in the neighborhood. I would like to express my support for the rezoning the way that the developers have done.
 I think I laid it out. I sympathize with my neighbors on Elm. I recently bought my home at Green Valley a couple years ago and was very thankful that I could afford it. But as a previous commenter mentioned, that's becoming less and less true for people in Fayetteville.
 I think the way that we solve that is through density. I love our neighborhood. I love all the trees and the way it's constructed. And I hope that developers will do it in a way that respects the integrity of the neighborhood, which it sounds like they are going to lengths to do.
 To avoid a lot of the issues that bigger cities are seeing around the country where the cost of living is skyrocketing, we need to infill. We need to do it in a dense way that makes sense. And I hope that you'll vote yes on this. Thank you. Thank you.
 I don't have anyone else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Then I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have? I know we've got to do an amendment first, right? Yes, Mayor. I think the first thing probably the council ought to do, if you want to accept that it's changed the bill of assurance, it's a little bit stronger, limiting the height to two stories everywhere, I guess, is,
 then you would need to make a motion to accept the new bill of assurance and replace the old bill of assurance with the one that was offered tonight.
 I have a question about the bill of assurance. It was brought up during public comment time that the bill of assurance will stay with this property ongoing. Is that the case if we do this tonight? Does it stay if they sell this property in ten years and say someone wants to redevelop? I mean, not that that's going to happen, but in the event, does the bill of assurance stay with the next owner and for years to come?
 The bill of assurance stays with the property just like the zoning until the city council would change the zoning or change the bill of assurance. It's something that the owner can't do himself. He can come back and ask and say, I'd like to get a different bill of assurance. And if the city council at that point says yes, then that can happen. But it's like zoning. It remains with the property until that occurs. Yes, but nothing's going to tie the hands of future councils to change zones properly. Right.
 I think that needs to be clear. All right. So we're back on the amendment. I'd like to move that we accept the latest bill of assurance. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the latest bill of assurance. Is there any comments or conversation on it? Okay. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Warren?
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended rezoning, so what discussion would the council like to have on the amended rezoning or what action would the council like to take? So let's open up the floor here. I hate going first, Mr. Mayor, but why not?
 I continue to commend the developer and his engineer for meeting with the neighbors for their prior work in the community and the quality of that. I think for me the truth serum with the neighbors is when people say, gee, I don't want anyone to build anything, you know right away they should have purchased the land themselves to keep it as a forest. And that's not what I'm hearing.
 I think it's encouraging to hear support for the RIU along Gregg Avenue. And I think that I'm in concurrence that that's an entirely appropriate place for triplexes as opposed to single-family homes. And I think that that's a wonderful result of these two groups getting together and meeting. And I'm entirely supportive of that.
 I'm a little bit surprised to hear about the RI-12 to RI-RSF-8 because that's what I was thinking myself. And so I'm curious to see if any other council members are leaning that way because I was appreciative of what's being proposed by the developer and looking for additional density
 and pleased that the neighborhood would be supportive of that. But regardless of that, I thought that that was an appropriate transition step up and a way of acknowledging instead of just maintaining RSF4 to acknowledge their movement with bills of assurance and attempting to be a good quality
 participant with that neighborhood in developing something good. So I commend the two groups for that and I would be supportive of that kind of split zoning. Okay, what else?
 I have a question of staff. On the difference of what, on that particular piece that would be zoned, the RI-12, and the difference if it was RSF-8, what is the difference in total number of units that can be on that property given its dimensions?
 And if I may ask a clarifying question, my understanding was the proposal was to change the portion that's RI-12 to RSF-4? RSF-8, I think. Or RSF-8, I'm sorry. Correct. That's what they're saying.
 I mean, that's a good question. I've been kind of batting around with that since I've heard that first bill of assurance is offered. I can tell you a theoretical number. I always like to advise the council that there are a large number of constraints associated with developing a property, parking, tree preservation, stormwater retention.
 It could under the area designated as RI-12, and with the density allowance can be developed up to nine single family homes, just as single family homes, but under the cluster housing ordinance, it allows the flexibility to double the underlying zoning district's density, so it could go up to 18 units. Sure. So Jonathan, it could go up to 18?
 units because of the amount of land we're talking about. Purely based on land area, yes. That's without knowing where streets are going and… Correct. And it's also worth noting, I think this came up during the Oak Bailey Conditional Use Permit appeal, that a typical cluster housing development is limited to 12 houses in each cluster housing by design.
 Thank you, Mayor. So Jonathan, just back to this again. So the RI-12 would allow nine single family and up to 18 cluster houses. What about in the RSF-8? That would allow eight and, oh, I've got to do my math. If I allow me one moment, please. That would be six and 12. Okay. And then in terms of tree preservation, are there any differences in the two zoning type requirements?
 Between RSFA and RI12? Yes. I believe they're both 20. Yes, they both require 20%. Okay, thank you.
 I have an additional follow up, I'm sorry Jonathan just gave me another question I was curious about. In the RI from what I understand, I mean that has some additional things around form doesn't it about having things like natural spots or different elements like with, does it touch on any of the design elements or is it just.
 Cluster housing has several standards about how you orient buildings around the shared green space and having private green spaces meant to Simulate version of having a private yard and perhaps a small shared park Is that what you're referring to? Right? Well, I was just thinking of the difference because I think about RSF 8 and The requirements for that and we would be different. It'd be like any kind of residential a
 house that you would place on that, it would be, I would think that it would just have those normal requirements of the way like setbacks in the tree. What would be the difference on what kind of natural areas or I guess is what I'm wondering. The fact that they potentially then could take up and create more impervious surface potentially or leave less grass or green space in that area because of the RSF8.
 A lot of that's really hard to speculate at, at a rezoning level. I think the most prominent indicator of what kind of green space would be left is the tree preservation requirements, so that 20%. There's definitely required side yards. It's a mix of between setbacks and building codes mandate those. Those are typically five feet for a total of 10 feet between units. So you begin to find places of open space here and there, but they may not be as substantive or connected.
 as something like a tree preservation area. And I have a very important distinction to make on the density question. I apologize, I misspoke. The cluster housing development allows that doubling of density when a cluster housing development is a conditional use. So under RI-12, it's 12, you cannot double it. But if it went to RSF-8, it could be doubled. I'm sorry for that misinformation.
 I should probably point out, too, that if the city council decides they want to change the zoning than what has been requested by the applicant, you certainly have a right to do that, but that means the bill of assurance goes away. Because the bill of assurance has been offered so that you will accept what the applicant has requested.
 And I want to thank all the neighbors that have taken time to speak with myself and speak with the builder and the architect and designer on this project I know that it's taken a lot of time energy and effort from all parties And we are faced with a really hard situation in our city, and I think that no one in this conversation has a
 shirked away from that and understood that we really have the need for additional housing. And I don't think, I agree with my seatmate over here, I don't think that this neighborhood is saying that they don't want more neighbors, and I'm very appreciative of that, that there's the acknowledgement. And I know in the 2040 plan, this has been a future land plan of being a city neighborhood, and it's been planned to have increased density. And for all of those reasons, I do trust in...
 the fact that we have incredible metrics in place, guidelines and policies from our planning department, and I know that they'll actively continue to be a good steward working with this neighborhood, that I'd be supportive of the zoning the way it is with the bill of assurance, and would move that we pass this. Okay. Some of you have...
 Yeah, I'm looking at the exhibit. Let's see here. A in our packet. I was wondering if we could bring that image up. This one, Jonathan?
 I'm looking at that because you know as helping with our new our new council members as well because I think a lot of times we're we kind of want to know those details of the design and then over the last four years I've learned that I really need to focus on kind of what the pattern of the zone is and so so the reason I'm wanting to look at this image is because
 what i see there as an artist graphic designer a lot of yellow it's rsf4 and so when we talk about like a way that it can kind of uh be gently transitioning toward the street which is greg which is a very major corridor um you know what does that look in between space look like it seems like it should go to four to eight to 16 or you know even number wise it seems like it should be gentle
 So that's kind of what I'm seeing right now, without having to go into those details of the design questions, because we just don't know. We just don't know.
 and I do trust our code to take care of the water situations and everything, we've worked very hard on developing that so that's kind of my comment and why I wanted to share this particular image with you all. That's all I've got. Thank you very much to the neighbors and the developer for all of your very hard work. I want to acknowledge all your time and energy, thank you. Let's go.
 Jonathan I just want to clarify because we kind of went back and forth and did I understand you say with RSF 8 with a conditional use permit they could do cluster housing up to 16 units it'd be a theoretical 16 units yes but RIU 12 they're capped at 12 that's correct doesn't matter if it's cluster correct or nine given the area of property proposed as RI 12 and then that does not
 they're capped at 12, but that doesn't take into consideration infrastructure or anything like that. So that's not necessarily the total number they can get. That's the max number they can get. Correct. Okay. I applaud both the developer and the neighbors. I think that this rezoning is an example of –
 what all rezonings are to be, everybody cooperating, and a give and take. And in this particular case, I don't think either side is getting everything they want, and I think that's usually when you have the best outcome. So for that reason, I believe I'm going to support this rezoning.
 Thank you, Mayor. So Jonathan, I just want to go back to this RI-12 again. So with the cluster housing, 12 is the maximum, but can they not apply for a variance?
 Yes, they can. So just like with Oak Bailey, they can apply for a variance and actually there was a lot of other things going on there so that theoretically they could go over 12 if they were granted a variance at the Planning Commission. Sure, if the applicant can adequately demonstrate a hardship that the Planning Commission supports. Okay, thank you. I have a question. If a variance is allowed, can it be appealed?
 A variance itself cannot be appealed until a decision has been made on the entire project.
 uh this is we're getting a little bit into the weeds on planning commission procedure but it may be married in this place right uh variances can be requested effectively at three different times before a project is even submitted and some developers as you imagine may need to do that if a project is contingent on one piece of something being sorted out can be submitted with the request itself and they ride together and that can be helpful to inform the conversation that everyone's seeing it along the way
 And they can be requested retroactively. Sometimes things come up during construction that dictate going back. So to your point or question, Council Member Bunch, a variance that's asked beforehand to be appealed sometimes has to wait for the project to come forward as well and either be approved or denied to be brought to the level of the council. Does that make sense? Yes, yes it does. You know, this is a...
 This is an unusual piece of property because we've got people in the neighborhood that have worked really hard and been very conscientious about what they would like to see on the property. And as Mike said, they're not saying we're just coming up with reasons that we don't want any development there. But we're at the difference between our I-12 and our SF-8.
 And I think under the RSF 8 or the 12, either one of those, by the time you lay out your streets and you figure out the max, you know, the developer figures out the maximum houses that they think they can fit on there, either one of those is going to probably be less than.
 the maximum we've been told because Jonathan just said earlier this is without streets or sidewalks or right-of-way or anything like that, so It's possible, but that RI-12 ends up being closer to the art what the maximum for the RSF-8 is Maybe a little bit higher than that, but I You know I feel pretty good about this. I think concessions have been made and
 and I right now I'm supporting this issue. Okay, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Kind of going back to what one of the public members asked, if this is approved and it does go to the Planning Commission and there are variances or any of that sort of thing, is there a notice provided to the community and is it only 200 feet?
 That's correct. It's 200 feet with a signposting and it's to occupants and property owners given our housing tenure and fae builtings to lean towards renters. And does and where is the where's the 200 feet started from? I guess where's the datum point? I guess is what I'm trying to find out since only one neighbor got notified I want to make sure that the public is still engaged in this process. It's the outside boundaries of the property. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 And that reminded me too, I believe Peggy had a question about trying to figure out how to stay up to date on it and I received the notices myself from the city clerk.
 to get kind of what's going on. If that's anybody can sign up for that. So I know it takes opening the email and looking at it, but that is probably the best way to stay up to date rather than waiting for a letter. Because there is a lot going on in Fayetteville. We kind of have to stay up on top of it.
 and I'm open to anybody else having ideas and recommendations so I do have two sides of this I really think that the neighbors you know have weighed in and seen what's going on and have a feeling about the density issues and as we know we don't have to beat the dead horse but the
 uh the the more houses that we do have we could offer more housing one or three more housing houses for people it really can make a difference for people um and so you know having having that extra home there could could help somebody to come to Fayetteville and take a job in Fayetteville and um participate and be a great community member so I just I just want you guys to keep that in mind too and I know you are um but I really I really um
 sympathize with the fact that you want that gentle density not not an enormous amount of density So it's a big balance of trying to figure out how to how to work with you guys and also think about what the whole City is looking at so I just wanted to point that out. Thank you. I don't know yet Mr. Mayor I
 Mean they I can be comfortable with and entirely see how any council member would support this as is for me a cluster housing development is 12 dwellings whether it's RI 12 or It's RSF 8 with RSF 8 is
 I want to acknowledge, however, that the developer has that additional hurdle of needing a conditional use permit in which conditions can be placed upon the development to then subsequently develop those 12 dwellings. And so,
 You're looking at a maximum of 12 and 12. You're probably looking at two-thirds of that number that could be developed. It's probably going to be in the 8 to 9 ballpark realistically. And so I'm still comfortable with the RSF-8, but I entirely want to acknowledge that I can see how any council member would be supportive of this as proposed. Okay. Tracy.
 Thank you. I do want to commend the neighbors and the developers because you all have have had at least three meetings that I know about probably many more and that takes a lot of effort and compromise on both sides so thank you very much for engaging in that process and in Fayetteville however I am still concerned about drainage even over in the RIU area that the neighbors are
 do not seem to have a problem with, but I remain concerned. I hope I'm wrong. I'd like to be wrong about a lot of these things. And then, Sonia, I appreciated you showing that, asking Jonathan to put that map back up,
 Because this is, with the RI-12, this is not transitional. RSF-8 would be a transitional form. In fact, it would be an island in the RSF-4 neighborhood over there, either RSF-8 or RI-12. So it's not providing that transitional housing that we often discuss here, that transitional zoning. And for those reasons, I'm not going to be in support of this rezoning action.
 Okay, let me ask question Jackson do we have a motion in second to pass this or anything? Okay, and we lost track here and all this come there. This is an ordinance We don't need a motion in a second. We just need eventually when they I mean But we're on that we're on the third you're on the third and final reading and so when everybody's through then you just ask for the vote Yep, okay continue on
 Yes, Sarah. Jonathan, I have a question here. I would have pulled it up. My iPad's not working right. It's kind of frozen up on me here. So with RSF-8, is there any ability to remind me again what all can be built by right in RSF-8 and tell me if that includes ADUs or anything like that?
 It includes single-family homes and accessory structures like ADUs or detached garages. Okay, okay and so it's just straight-up single-family homes. That's correct. I mean there's some citywide uses by right but that includes things like orchards and utility boxes. Right, we're probably not going to buy this to put an orchard on. Right. But the RI-12, is that strictly, what is by right in that? Is it strictly housing?
 A straight up RI-12 zoning district allows single, two, three and up to four attached units. With the bill of assurance of course this is limiting it to single family detached units. Detached. Okay thank you. What other discussion then would you like to have? So it almost seems like the 12 is trying to become the 8 with the bill of assurance or no?
 I can't speculate it seems like we're kind of trying to but I don't know so if we back to kits point if we Did amended to? recommend the eight you're saying the bill of assurances would be null and
 Yes, it'd be gone. The bill of assurance is offered by the owner-developer in order to try to get the city council to persuade them to adopt the requested zoning. So if the city council doesn't do that, even if they zone another one that might be a good zone, but if they don't do the zoning that is requested by the applicant, then the bill of assurance is no longer valid.
 Okay, thank you. There's just so many chunks to this. I kind of wish we could have talked about the R.I.U. on the, Greg, by itself instead of putting these things two together. I'm having a hard time with that part, but I think I'm okay. I'll just leave it as is. Okay, Sarah. Well, what I keep getting back to is
 When I think about transitional housing, that transitional aspect has been mentioned a couple of times.
 I know when you have an area that has RSF4, and you try and think, well, what would be a transition to that? Well, RSF8 would be a transition to that. But we're getting really, really close to a busy street, a busy intersection, close to the intersection of Township, not far away, busy, lots of people coming through there. And so I think this...
 When I think of the transition, yes, this is higher density, but when we have the bill of assurance that limits it to two stories tall, I still have to think this is housing next to housing.
 It's single family next to single family. It's not like, I mean, it could be some triplexes or something like that, I guess, if they didn't have that in their bill of assurance. But still, we're looking at single family. We're looking at housing next to housing. And I have a real hard time saying that that is not a good transition. That's kind of what I get back to with my thoughts on this.
 And I know in a perfect world, everything would just kind of gradually build up. You'd have a couple more houses here and then maybe a duplex here. And then as you got closer to the busy streets, you might have some more apartments. But I do kind of understand where the neighbors are coming from. But I still am having the concerns that this is housing next to housing. And I can't really say no to that. Okay.
 Okay, Holly. I'm having a little bit of difficulty with the transition argument because we do have the RMF24 next door. So I think the RI12 is appropriate on defense of both the RIU, but I'm fine with RI12 there. Okay, we're all fine with something, whatever that may be here. So is there any other discussion before we vote?
 Okay. Well, let's see what that will be. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? No. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. So the amended ordinance with the bill of assurance has passed. Okay. I kind of lost track. I thought we were still...
 waiting on the third and final reading. Thank you for letting me find that for me. All right.
 Okay, let's go number two an ordinance to rezone that property Describing rezoning petition RZN 23-004 located at 2910 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3 for approximately 14.70 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre and RA residential agriculture to RA residential agriculture and NC neighborhood conservation.
 This was left on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. In order to rezone that property, inscribe in the rezoning petition RZN 23-4 located at 2910 North O'Wire Road in Ward 3 for approximately 14.7 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre and RA residential agriculture to RA residential agriculture and NC neighborhood conservation. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have no new information or updates on this item. The exhibit that the council requested, or the information council requested about traffic volume counts and traffic crashes was sent out last week. I'm happy to answer any clarifying questions about that. Otherwise, I'm available for questions. And I believe Mitch Weigel is here as the applicant in person and Blake Jorgensen online. Mayor, thank you. Okay. Does the applicant want to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes total.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, Council. Thanks for hearing us again. We have come to request that you approve our rezoning, which takes a portion of this property, the 14.7 acres, and rezones that from RSF4 to neighborhood conservation, moving the RA line down to the floodplain line, which will leave about four acres left in them.
 is a green zone. We've had meetings with the neighbors. My councilman in Ward 3 arranged some neighborhood meetings so we could get together and discuss the reason that we're doing this, what the ask is. There is no plant. There is not a development plan for it at this time. This is simply a rezoning request that we think will serve the city and its goal to provide some infill single family housing for the city.
 For the community, we know that going forward, anyone who brings forward a plan will have to go through all the development proper services. They'll have to go through stormwater city utilities, traffic, all of that. That's we don't have that as an ask. This is simply a resounding request.
 We've addressed the items of density with the neighbors that we feel. Of course, everyone gets a little spun up when you hear that there's a potential for 10 units per acre based upon square footage. We tried our best to explain to them why that couldn't possibly happen. It's a math and geometry problem.
 We're probably back down to our best guess in doing just some layouts, random layouts, that there may be 50, 52, 53 is about the most that you can get in there by the time you put in your streets, your infrastructure, your detention, your drainage, without requesting some sort of variance. Again, we're not here for that. This is just a rezoning to a single family intermediate infill. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Does Mr. George want to say anything? He's just here for PD if he's got something. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Mitch. All right. What questions does the city council have for the applicant or the staff? Nope. Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic? Good evening, everyone. My name is Nick Moat. I live at 2811 North Raintree Drive, which is looking right down Sumac, the road that is proposed to be.
 extended into this new development. We've had three or two previous hearings on this, one at the City Council level and one here. We've talked about the congestion on Old Wire, the 9,000 cars that drive up there every day, notwithstanding the new Gully Park subdivision, the new
 development east of Butterfield, which at this point they're just pushing around dirt. There's no houses there. We don't know the traffic impact that's going to be on that end. And additionally, the main intersection at Crossover and Old Wire, which is one of the major thoroughfares from East Fayetteville to College.
 um and other other ways that this doesn't comport with um the 2040 plan um but i i won't sit here and kick a dead horse on that front um as attorney it's incumbent upon me to bring um to gripe about some procedural issues um so as much as nobody wants to hear that um i think these things are important this council discussed the importance of neighborhood involvement
 um and there's some deficiencies in the application and the notice that i believe preclude this council from even considering this matter um number number one on under section 154 the code um it requires an adequate statement of compatibility of the proposed rezoning request and explaining how it will not adversely impact or conflict with surrounding land uses
 If you look at the applicant's proposed rezoning request, all it mentions is that there is a single-use home there right now. There's a 100-year floodplain.
 and their entire justification that this will not adversely affect other areas is that the Butterfield Elementary Division's new development has been rezoned to NC and it's close. Well, again, they're just pushing dirt around right there right now. We don't know how that's going to affect the surrounding neighborhoods. And I would remind the council that these application requirements
 are jurisdictional, it's not the substantial compliance requirement under notice. And I've spent the substantial majority of my career working under W.H. Taylor, and one of the first things he told me and one of the things he beat into my head over the last substantial part of a decade is you've got to have jurisdiction.
 whether you're prosecuting the case or defending it or whatever. And I would submit that's not here in this case. Number two, going to the notice requirements, one of the main notice requirements is infill and density. You know, what's going to potentially be here? And there's been a lot of confusion over that because that wasn't included in the notice.
 All that the notice states is that there is currently a single home property there and current RSF 8.14 acres proposed NC 9.79 acres. I mean, if you were to hand that to my grandma...
 what in the world would you think she what would she take from that and she's a retired teacher and a pretty smart woman um i was in a i mean i'm an attorney and i had to look it up um you might as well hand her a blank piece of paper and if if that if that constitutes substantial compliance i mean that that is just a fundamental violation of due process to me um it does not seem that any neighbors have been notified
 of what's really going on here and and this council has has Stated how important neighborhood involvement is with the with the developer. I mean and just on the front end There is not it has not been conveyed. What's going on the only reason that we knew what was going on and again both of us are attorneys is because one of our neighbors was kind enough to put together a flyer and hanging on our our
 Doorknob to know what was going on. That was the notice we got. I mean we also received the inadequate notice I'm discussing but the reason that we're here today is because of our time. Thank you for your time everyone Who else would like to address? Good evening. My name is Alexis Stevens I'm a property owner at 2811 North Raintree Drive which is adjacent to the property does that is subject of this rezoning request and
 I just want to start out by briefly corroborating Mr. Moat's position on notice in the application, and then I will move on so that we don't put you all to sleep.
 I'm also an attorney here in Arkansas. I've independently reviewed the application and the notice in this instance and backed it up to the requirements under the city ordinances. And frankly, they're both deficient. As Mr. Mote pointed out, the statement of incompatibility has no meaningful corroboration to it, despite neighbors pointing out actual issues with this rezoning request.
 and on the notice front given that the lynchpin issue of this rezoning request is
 is density and that the applicant's notice to neighbors completely omits any meaningful statements as to density or the proposed use of the property, I would state that the notice in this instance is a far cry from substantial compliance as contemplated under the code.
 Now that being said, if the council chooses to go forward despite this not necessarily being right for hearing, I just want to point out that we talked a lot about the problems and the issues with this rezoning request.
 And while I corroborate all of the issues raised by my neighbors and we've raised those issues ourselves in more detail in the brief and opposition that we've submitted to the council tonight, I really want to focus on solutions rather than those problems and at our last
 Council meeting it seems that much of the council's concern with the current zoning RSS4 was around the fact that RSS4 is a bit antiquated You know it's not necessarily with the times anymore and the goals of what the city is trying to achieve with zoning so for that reason, you know
 you know i don't think that we should be forced to pick a less than decision or a decision that is incompatible with the city plan 2040 as more fully set forth in the brief we've submitted or in other words i don't think that we should be forced to pick between the lesser of two evils just because the current zoning is a bit antiquated
 So for that reason, I would urge the council to consider a number of options. For instance, we could, as the development moves along, we could keep the current zoning and we could grant variances that address these issues of antiquation with the current zoning. Alternatively, you know, we could come to a compromise of density that is somewhere in between RSF4 and NC.
 And finally, you know, if the council wants
 pragmatic options at hand to choose from. I would suggest that we table this decision in the meantime and that the council take this as an opportunity as Council Member Wiedeker suggested at our last hearing to revisit the zoning ordinances, bring them up to speed and remove the issues of antiquation from RSF4 and then revisit this rezoning request
 once we have realistic and practical options at hand, rather than trying to choose what's going to be the better option out of the antiquated zoning ordinance and the very dense zoning ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan. I'm Robert Crouch. I live at 2816 North Raintree Drive. First I want to just thank Councilmember Berna, Councilmember Bunch for the time that they offered some of us to kind of speak and learn a little bit. This has been an educational process. I would argue that we should make it necessary for every high school student to get involved in some capacity in their community as part of their civics course.
 Mr. Weigle, I appreciate your time and being able to speak with him. It brought to light, it was an educational process for me. I still have my apprehensions about RNC though. The neighborhood conservation zone is by right a bill two zone. There's very little setback on the sides, on the back, and it's bill two on the front. Under the worst of circumstances, it invites somebody to come into an established urban forest and raise that land.
 Is it a smart move? Maybe not from a financial standpoint if you can sell the property with established trees on it. But does it invite them to do that for the purposes of expedience when you're trying to deal with built-to lots? I think it does and I think that level of density, that invitation to use an incredibly antiquated method of land management in of itself,
 is reason enough to consider other options. And look, when I purchased my land or my property, I knew that land was going to be developed at some point in time.
 My still hold that it can be developed in a manner that is consistent with the developments that have gone before Maybe with more density maybe an RSF 8 If that's necessary and it meets the needs of increasing infill But I don't think increasing infill should be done at the sacrifice of other goals that drive and influence the city plan 2040 and including the enduring green network including a
 A livable transportation network. Because of where we're situated, everybody's going to be using their car on a daily basis. The one thing that is reasonably walkable is Gully Park. Aside from that, every other aspect of life requires you getting into your car and driving. So for that reason alone, a more moderate means of infill is appropriate, I believe.
 I don't take this personally and I don't bring my concerns with any judgment towards any individual whatsoever. I think everybody is acting in good faith and I certainly am trying to present my concerns in good faith.
 But once this land is sold, there is no control within that neighborhood conservation what's done with that within the rights. And that is my concern that the rights are are way too flexible for that piece of property in order to balance the competing, the competing interests of those different goals that are laid out and posted behind you.
 And so I would encourage serious deliberation about what would invite the best use of the land. Even within a compromise, it wouldn't necessarily guarantee the retention of trees, but it doesn't invite the use of a site development approach that could warrant raising that entire property.
 And because we don't have any certainty, because we don't have a developer, because we don't have any plans, and we don't know what's going to be done with the property, I don't, it maintains my apprehensions about the level of flexibility that neighborhood conservation invites. And I feel like something that is more firm in its boundaries would be an appropriate consideration of the council.
 again I appreciate the the respect that I I have received in bringing my concerns to the council and I hope and wish to convey that I I respect every one of you uh individually and and appreciate um this opportunity thank you thank you who else would like to address us well again Kyle Smith uh 28-1 Dove Drive and I will again urge you to support this application and vote for this ordinance
 For decades, RSF4 has been the default residential zoning in the city. When I say decades, I don't mean one or two decades, I mean enough decades that it's starting to approach the lifespans of most of us here. It is by far the largest zone in the city by land area. Something like 60% of the city's land area. That made sense in the 80s and 90s when we were looking at a city of about a 40,000 population.
 But now RSF4 isn't merely antiquated. It is just grossly insufficient for our modern needs. As we close in on 100,000, NC ought to be our new bare minimum regulation for land that's deemed appropriate for residential. It's barely supportive of transit densities. It's hard to justify restraining ourselves to less than 10 units per acre.
 When we talk about compatibility, in the history of zoning, compatibility came about to keep factories and smokestacks and animal rendering plants away from houses. It was a health and safety issue to keep us from polluting our neighborhoods. Like Councilmember Bunch said earlier, this is houses next to houses. It's people. If we're...
 arguing that this is inappropriate because we haven't made the case that an area of land is compatible for for people to live on I Think we're missing the point. So I hope you'll support this And I hope we'll see a lot more RSF for zoning turning into Very moderately more dense zoning like NC. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 Do you have one, Sue? At Carla Cope. Okay, go ahead. Hello, this is Carla Cope. I live at 2796 North Old Wire Road. Ms. Cope, you'll need to speak up. Excuse me. This is Carla Cope, and I live at 2796 North Old Wire Road.
 And at the previous council meeting, it was requested by one of the council persons that we would have a report on the number of accidents at the intersections of North Owyah Road with Crossover Road and with Old Missouri Road. And I looked through the attachments attached to today's agenda, and I didn't see that information. And I wondered if that was available to be presented. Thank you.
 Thank you. Anybody else? I'm sorry. Joshua Malott. Hi. My name is Joshua Malott. I'm at 2905 North Old Wire. I don't have a whole lot to add because my neighbors are a lot more eloquent than me. But I'd just like to agree with my three neighbors that...
 spoke against this rezone. I am not against increasing in density and rezoning and development. I know that's what Fayetteville needs to continue to grow, but I think that the open-ended nature of the NC zoning and what can be built there leaves it too open-ended. Like I
 Like I said, we don't know what the plan is. We don't know what the developer's going to do, who's going to buy it, and if they're just going to raise the whole thing and build apartments on it. Or maybe not apartments, but you know.
 James Meeker, Three story single family homes packed right next to each other and I don't think that that fits in with with this neighborhood. So I like some middle ground between in C and the James Meeker, RS for or bars have for that. It's something right now. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. There's no one else, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would you all like to take? This is an ordinance. It's on the second read. Mayor, I have a question. I wanted to address the public comment asking for the accident report. Jonathan, could we get that added to the agenda or added to the website so the
 Council earthy community members could see that certainly I'll work with the clerk to do that. Thank you. Okay, who would like to begin? Scott John Clark it can you speak to the public comment question about the legality of the Application and the issues that they have with that. Yeah, let me ask Jonathan first you're the the planning department reviews an application for rezoning when it is submitted right and
 That's correct. And so you have, in fact, in this particular example, it was reviewed and approved by the Planning Department? That's correct. Okay. And so, and I think last time there was another question and Jesse indicated there was some financial compliance you felt with the rules? That is correct. I think that this is not a court of law. This is a legislative meeting.
 you have the power to do a lot, the discretion to do a lot when it comes to zoning, because that's a legislative act, and it's not ruled by the same rules as if this was a court of law. And so at this point, we have seen that this particular rezoning has had three hearings already, one from the Planning Commission, this is the second one here,
 There's been a lot of public comment from neighbors, so obviously there has been some notice because we've heard a lot from them just like we did from the previous zoning. So our notice procedures have worked and notice has been provided which was, is one of the keys when it comes to is this due process? And I think the City Council and the City has provided due process in this particular case.
 Obviously, when someone hasn't seen the zoning issue before, they don't know much about it. They don't know what neighborhood conservation means, what RSS 4 means. But there are certainly ways to find out. One would be just simply go to the website, the city's website, or talk to planning, or talk to me. And we would certainly be willing to explain, as I often do to people who have confusion about what's going on with the city and our ordinances.
 And we are there to explain what's going on. Secondly, when we had the hearing first at the Planning Commission, we had a report from the planning department. They talked about compatibility and why this is or is not compatible. As you all know, the significant difference between RSF-4
 neighborhood conservation, they're very compatible in many ways because they're all single-family homes, detached homes, not put together, not duplexes, single-family homes. They're very similar. Their only thing is the house is normally going to be closer to the road and
 and there's a possibility of having increased density, but as we know from experience, it's not as big a density increase as it looks. It was designed for our master plan of the downtown area where the lots were already smaller, which is why it was designed with a smaller frontage requirement and things like that, and also with the houses closer to the road. So I think from a legal point of view,
 There has been due process presented here. There has been notice. They've been here at the meeting, so obviously somehow they knew about that. We require signs to go out as well as mailings. Is it published in the paper too before the Planning Commission meeting? That's correct. So there's a lot of due process that has been provided out.
 I would, instead of being concerned about whether this is legal or not, because I think it is legal, you need to look at the real issues here that the neighbors have brought up. Certainly they can talk about density. That's an important issue, and I'm not trying to make a comment one way or another about what you should do. That is an important issue. Traffic is an important issue.
 But I would think that when it comes to whether or not you can even make a decision, I would say, yes, you can make a decision. In fact, you're expected to make a decision here. I'm glad that you didn't decide it all in one night.
 Instead you delayed it so that you could have more time they could have more time talking and you've gone out and met with them So I think the city has really provided a lot of due process in this particular case And so I would just say put that to the backside and just concentrate on the real issues here Which is whether this is in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville to grant this rezoning. Thank you This piece of property is right around the corner from my house, so I know it very well and and I
 Before doing some research on it, I was seriously concerned about the additional traffic that it would potentially provide when you hear the max 90. And that would send cold shields down my spine too if I thought 90 houses would go in there. But when I started talking to staff,
 Talked to the agent for the cellar and talking about how it's going to lay and potentially your max of 50 I still have a little heartburn about the traffic but then I started looking a little bit more and I found out that with the traffic study and talking to the Police Department, I think in that area Accounted for about 0.5 percent of the accidents in in in Fayetteville
 That number kind of surprised me because I assumed because of the traffic that's there, it would have been more. Someone said earlier, can we can we ever build too many houses? And that's and they said, no, I would disagree with that. I think we have to be realistic with our development. And I'm still torn on which direction to go on this. Yeah.
 Because it is a really good piece of property in a really bad spot and I It's challenging. So I Would be interested to see what? other council members think You know I
 I wanted to thank Mr. Crouch for opening up his home to have a meeting with Mitch and Scott and I. And I just thought that was very kind of him to do that. And, you know, it was just, you know, we just talked about a lot of things. And I understand the fear of this rezoning because we don't have a development in mind.
 It's not a PZD that's coming forward and we have at least an outline of what might be there. So I understand why the realtor is trying to get it rezoned because he represents his clients and he's trying to do the best job for his clients that he possibly can. So it is challenging because...
 We're just rezoning property, and that's what we're being asked to do. We're not being asked to approve a development. It was mentioned that we could give, we could keep it RSF4 and just give variances. We're not asked to do that. We're asked to look at this as NC zoning. And, you know, to say we could just give variances, that's not really, we don't know what those might be. We don't know, you know.
 we could say, oh sure, we'll just give a variance. No, we don't ever just say that. So, you know, it's challenging, but, you know, I'm still kind of out on the fence about this because either we rezone it now, this is the way I'll see it, either we rezone it now or we rezone it with a development request as part of the sale of the property.
 Now, you know, that happens a lot too, that someone comes in and makes an offer and their offer is contingent on the ability to rezone the property, which this is probably a similar zoning to what someone would ask for. I don't think it's unreasonable to think someone buying this property might want this zoning. So I'm still kind of kicking this around a little bit. Thank you. Okay.
 Well, okay. We do have an ordinance. It is on the second reading. I just wonder, I lost track last time we got so involved in the conversation, but now I got involved in it too. But just keep in mind, this is on the second reading. It's an ordinance. Teresa.
 I think mayor Thank You Jonathan and your team for putting together all that traffic information I'm just sorry It's not available to the public yet right now because I thought it was very insightful and there had been a lot of wrecks there particularly at Old Missouri And old wire I believe and also at crossover, but there is a new stop Signal at Old Missouri and that just changed things a little bit. I
 But I hope that the public I hope that we will leave it here tonight so that the public can look at that traffic data I have some friends that live close by there I'm certainly not there as frequently as Scott is since he lives close by but that is a very very tight Street and
 There are a lot of blind spots on that on Old Wire. Strawberries pretty bad. We just rezoned Oat Bailey to allow 18 more homes in there. So that's going to be more traffic. Those haven't been built yet. So there are a lot of things that are taking place right there and I think the traffic study needs to be considered and allowed for the public to view. So I hope we can hold it here tonight.
 It's not a traffic study. It's traffic. I'm sorry. You're right. It's traffic count. I misspoke. Thank you, Sarah, for correcting me. I think, you know, I thought that was in the packet myself. I really did. Since I had it, I thought everybody had it.
 So that was wrong for me to think that I guess. You know it included a lot of information that was really you know kind of put stuff in perspective there and like Scott I was a little surprised I mean yes there are accidents but I'm surprised that there weren't more and that they weren't more serious than you know because of the number of cars that go through there. So you know if we wanted to hold this
 you know, so that everybody has time to look at those, the traffic numbers and the number of accidents, I would be in favor of that too. I don't like to kick the can down the road, but, you know, since somebody didn't, since it wasn't in our packet for everybody to see, I kind of. I would agree with that in a, to be completely transparent, I think that even though I'm sure people want to get it done, get it over with one way or the other, I think two weeks won't, you know,
 won't impact anybody greatly so I would be okay with that. Okay, is everybody agreeable for waiting two weeks? Do we want to ask the applicant how he feels about this? You can ask him anything you want to say. So Mr. Rigel, how do you, you know, is that, is two weeks? Two weeks, two weeks doesn't seem like a lot, but time's always money.
 And I think, and I haven't seen the traffic numbers that have come out, but apparently there have been some numbers that have come out, and the comments that we heard were it was surprisingly less than. I mean, that's what I took away. It would be one thing, I would think, if you wanted to delay something because the numbers were actually increased, were greater, or it was more concern. But we didn't hear anybody that mentioned that say that there was a concern about the
 any traffic is traffic traffic increases across our community all the time it's a struggle that we always have but the comments that i heard two people make were it was a surprisingly low number so if that's what everyone has to digest over two weeks to find out that it's not as bad as we thought it was really going to be is that really the issue i mean and i don't i'm not trying to bully the council into making a decision but if it's not a
 I mean, you're going to do what you want to do. I would certainly argue that time is time. But if there was some outlying number that you said, hey, everybody look at this. This is, and even though we haven't seen it and I haven't seen it, it's a bigger number than we thought or something that was more concerned. I would say, yeah, move it down the road. Well, let's take a look at it. But what we will have is at some point someone will buy this.
 And at that point, someone will come forward with a preliminary plot and a preliminary plan. And that will go to traffic. And that will go to all the transportation department. And everyone will look at that. And it may be determined at that time that perhaps there needs to be another stoplight, signal, or intersection. That's something that's hard to make a judgment on when you don't know what it's going to look like.
 And so I don't really think that that's that this is the place that we would take that into consideration Because all these questions that are unknown will come forward when somebody presents a pulmonary plan So I'm I'm certainly not going to feel like I'm gonna make you or think that that the applicants not going to be cooperative You know, but it didn't sound like anyone was sounded like the surprise was boy. That's not as bad as we thought and
 So if we need two weeks to get to that, then I guess that we need two weeks to get to that. But all the questions about density and drainage and infill and canopy coverage, those all come with the pulmonary plat. They're all part of the process. They're all part of the development code, which I've heard everyone here tonight in the previous rezoning say that they support and they believe in. So this is just part of the process. Thank you. Scott. I will compliment you because
 When I went to the meeting the other night, I was going to firmly vote against it, and you're a great salesman, so you had me changing my opinion, and then the more I thought about it, I was wavering again, and you make a strong case.
 But I always err on the side of transparency, and I think it's only fair, even though we want to move this along, I think it's only fair to the neighbors to make sure that everybody is seeing the complete picture. And I know time is money, but we only get a chance to do this once. I want to make sure we do it right. So I still support holding it.
 Okay. Oh, then, yes, DeAndre, we got Teresa, and then we'll get to you. But we'll get to you now. Jonathan, speaking of numbers, what is, what number, what would be, what number would determine how many accidents? I mean, how do we, I mean, what number are we looking for?
 That's a great question without a really definitive answer when it comes to determining whether there's a traffic hazard or something could create a traffic hazard. A lot of factors are at play. It's not just the type of street, the volume of traffic, but it's also the severity of the accidents. I believe there I shared a link with you all in the memo to.
 R DOT website that compiles all of that information. All I can say is that in staff's estimation when we reviewed this rezoning request we did not find that there was an existing traffic hazard and we did not find that rezoning this property would lead to development that would compound or create that. So what happens in two weeks when we find the same information? I think you need to tell me that.
 All right, Teresa. So I actually did find some concern there. There was, I think, if I recall correctly, there were 147 accidents in that area. So I just want to clarify that I did find some concern, and I want to analyze it a little bit more. Okay.
 And transparency, I believe, is so important to our process. And so thank you all for agreeing to hold this so that we can take another look at this. Thanks. I have a question. Where did you get your number? The accidents, the 147? There's 140, and that's on Jonathan's memo. Over what period of time?
 I think it's over the last 10 years. Oh, 10 years, okay. But again, the Oak Bailey that we just rezoned not very long ago has not been built out. There are a lot of other things that are going on in that area that we're going to have to think about if we rezone it in C. We don't have that data. That data, it's not here yet. So again, we're going to have to use some foreshadowing, some best judgment here on what the traffic may be.
 thank you yeah it was uh 2013 to 2023. okay and i'm just curious if they were fender benders or what type of accidents it's in jonathan's report okay thank you quick question jonathan on your report you had uh 71 accidents on north crossover road
 Is that in the intersection of crossover and O wire or how far does that extend out? That's a good question because there is a crossover point in our data at which the police department began recording incidents by longitude and latitude as opposed to aggregating it to the nearest intersection. If you turn to the specific police data that I attached to the report, I think it's the very second to last page.
 where there's several, for lack of a better word, unclassified or undesignated accidents, and those all have in the fifth column a range of distances, and that's the point at which we did not include those in that intersection. So once, depending on the intersection, once it got about 20 feet, it ranges, it looks like, anywhere from 20 to 500 feet from the intersections were captured in this report out by the police department. Thank you very much.
 I have a new council member question just about, you know, we're talking about development code a lot tonight and I'm assuming, I mean I haven't read every single portion of our development code. It's quite extensive but I've gone through some.
 It takes into consideration making sure that we're developing in a way that we're creating safety in the way that we're accessing the streets. I would think that that's part of the consideration with the way that the code is written. I know we talked a lot about the curb cuts and the spacing requirements and all of those.
 We're not going to stop seeing rezones and the need for density and so just like the water issues that come up that seem to stop some of our conversations, street safety will probably be a continuing conversation. So just curious if you can expound on that. That might be something we need to talk about more in our workshop that we have as well.
 just for clarification you're asking what what elements of our development code I guess address concerns about traffic safety is that a fair summary okay there are several pieces I think the one that you reference and that the council most often hears about our our access management ordinances which is the spacing between driveways based on the classification of the street there's also a very
 a thorough document called our minimum street standards which has several sections on when left-hand turn lanes are required how long left turn lanes are required to be when a stop sign could be warranted when a traffic signal could be warranted concerns about site triangles which is when you're sitting in your car and looking left and right that triangle of visibility based on the traffic speeds on the road
 there are heightened requirements when there's a known dangerous traffic condition or just a Large number of accidents where additional information can be required either in the form of a more involved traffic study That is to say there are several elements of our ordinances that are intended to Address those concerns. Yes Okay, we're ready to go to new business I
 Number one, resolution authorizes acceptance of a grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the amount of $512,642 for the Home Investment Partnerships Program to approve a city match in the amount of $237,000.
 $237,358 in approved budget adjustment. Yolanda. Good evening, Mayor and Council. What you have before you tonight is a request for an approval for the city to become a participating jurisdiction with the HUD Home Program. HUD has determined that the City of Fayetteville is eligible to become a participating jurisdiction, commonly known as a PJ, in the Home Investment Partnership Program.
 This program is a federal block grant program that provides annual funding used exclusively for affordable housing activities to benefit low-income households. Funding for homelessness services is not an eligible activity for this funding. I think that was mentioned at the last meeting I wanted to make sure that you were all aware that that is not an eligible funding activity.
 HUD requires participation threshold for first-time PJs of $750,000. City of Fayetteville's 2023 HUD home allocation amount was $512,642. Therefore, the required first-year participation amount is $237,358.
 If Council approves this item tonight, we will begin work to develop an action plan which will detail the use of the funds. There will be a 30-day public comment requirement that we must fulfill. We will hold a public meeting to also receive input and public input and comment can be given all during the 30 days in any form that folks would like to provide those comments in.
 We will be looking at best practices for local area PJs. We will also be looking intensely at the needs of our community to be able to develop this plan. So again, the item before you tonight is approval for the city's participation in the HOME program. The approval will give the mayor the authority to sign the letter of participation that will be sent to HUD and will also approve the required budget adjustments.
 Do we have any questions? Okay, what questions do we have for Ilana on this? Sarah? Oh, DeAndre, you first. Yes. What type of, do you have any examples of some of the services that we may be able to provide if we accept this grant? Normally what I've seen that PJs do, they partner with local community development housing organizations.
 They provide activities such as home buyer education, down payment assistance. At any point, if it is possible that we could partner with, they're called CHOTOs, or Community Housing Development Organizations, to actually
 bring forth a project that would be a possibility, but we're not really looking at a whole lot of money. But once we partner and there's leveraging involved, there's really no telling what we could actually get accomplished with this funding. And it will be annual funding that we can look at. And even if we can help individuals prepare to become home buyers,
 That is a huge challenge for a lot of our folks that are low to moderate income because we're talking about credit counseling, we're talking about home buyer counseling. So there's a lot that could be done and down payment assistance to help individuals get into their first home. What is the income threshold?
 It would be individuals that are at 80% of median income and that's going to vary annually and that also includes the number of individuals in the household. So it's a target but that's what we're looking at to help those individuals get into their first home. Thank you, Yolanda. You're welcome.
 Yolanda, in the letter that came from HUD, I also see an area that's towards the bottom of the page that says on the first page that our Section 108 balance as of February 27, 2023, but you also have $3.82 million in available Section 108 borrowing authority.
 Since Section 108 loans are federally guaranteed, this program can leverage your jurisdiction's existing CBDG funding to access low-interest, long-term financing to invest in your jurisdiction. Do you have any details about that additional part of that outside of...
 Yes, there can be loans that municipalities can work into. Usually what is being utilized for payback or guarantee is CDBG funding. Should that CDBG funding cease to exist, then the city would be responsible for paying back the loan. Does it also, I guess, indicate in that as well that we could potentially, you know,
 use the CBDG funds maybe in a different way than we've used them potentially to create any housing or no? No, I mean the HUD is very strict with their regs So when they have the different buckets of funding that are utilized, for example We're talking about the home funding that comes with specific regs. CDBG funds you are limited to what you can use those funds for. They have caps in different sections.
 um so that could not be used for new construction okay thank you i'm excited for what we can do with these absolutely thank you mr mayor it's um for the city to match at a little over 237 000 is a is a big number and a lot however if we as a community do that our return on investment is 217
 instantaneously and so it's very hard to turn down a 200 plus percent return on investment and I'm so appreciative this opportunity is coming to us thank you no we will that will keep rolling and every year we'll have an allocated amount
 And that's what I wanted to clarify, is this basically just as an entry into the program? That is correct. This is our participating. We have the threshold amount that is required, which is the $750,000. This will help us to get there. This is a first-time participation dollar amount. And then moving forward, we will have our allocation that will come to us every year to use to assist individuals to get into affordable housing.
 Well, I want to compliment you and your staff on finding this and applying and getting approved for it. It's a great asset to the city. Please. I echo what Scott just said. Thank you, Yolanda. Just two clarifying questions. So every year we will get the $512,000? It will vary because this, in the same sense as CDBG, is a pot.
 So then depending on the number of, let's say for CDBG, it's entitlement cities. So they come up with the funding total at the federal level for CDBG. Then they just divvy it up amongst all of the entitlement cities. So now we have the home funding pot. So all of the PJs that are in the mix, it's all divvied out. So it will be adjusted annually. So we could be looking at it'll vary a little bit, but not a lot.
 Okay, second question. Do all the funds have to be sent spent in the fiscal year and a federal fiscal year? Or do you know that kind of detail? I think the limit is within 24 months we have to have the money out the door. I believe that that is correct We will be looking into the details as we move forward and develop annual plan. Super very exciting and thank you all for for investigating and reaching out and finding this this grant and
 good work i just had one more question um i i just was wondering if we're going to use the cbdg committee too to assist us in kind of like assessing the potential things that we can do with this as well as part of that 30-day period and trying to talk with the community
 At this point, as I said, we will be looking at what the best practices are and what is going to work best for the city of Fayetteville as how we move the funding out. So we're just going to develop that. We haven't started looking at that because if it was not going to be approved tonight, then there seemed to be no use in investing staff time with that.
 but we will actually be looking at that. I feel like it'd be valuable for myself to hear their feedback. I know that board was constituted with folks from different walks of life that maybe have different experiences. They might funnel some things up. So I think there'd be value if we're able to make that work in the timeline. I would love to be able to include them. Well, and as I said, there will be a 30-day comment period public meeting. So our entire community, of course, will be included and be able to provide input. Anything else?
 Okay, let's take some public comment if I guess one turn speak you have a five-minute duration Don't engage anyone from the public any council members stay on topic Please give us your name and address those president chamber are allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that Who would like to be first? All right mayor this is the one I was here for tonight and
 This is, I think, Council Member Berna's words at the agenda session were a no-brainer, and I fully agree. This is a great asset that staff has found, and I'm glad that we're asking to apply for it. I assume we'll be completing the application tonight. The home funds do have different uses than some of the programs that we currently offer.
 i know that the planning process in the next four months before the plan is submitted in august will we'll have a lot of opportunity to discuss that i hope that we will lean more into uses that expand our inventory of affordable housing and not just the the easy way to do it is to to set up rental assistance programs that
 just dump our public money into the hands of landlords that already exist and will have somebody no matter what. There are ways that we can increase our capacity as a community and make more homes available to people who currently don't have access. That will be the big win and the fact that this continues year after year really, really gives us a great opportunity to make that real.
 Would echo Councilmember Moore's request that the Community Development Assistance Programs Board be involved in developing that application. You've got four months between now and August. They should have four meetings in that time. There's no reason they shouldn't be a central part of that process.
 I know there's a 30-day comment period that's open for everybody, but if you'll forgive me reading to you from the City Code, the Community Development Assistance Programs Board shall provide the venue for those HUD mandated public hearings. If they aren't involved in that public hearings hearing, then we're not doing what our code says.
 They are also responsible for analyzing requests for funds in relation to the needs of the community and this is as textbook in their ballpark as I can imagine. So I hope that that we'll be getting lots of opportunities to talk about this in public at their meetings over the next four months. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? And in case I didn't say it, vote for this. Who else would like to address this?
 There's no one on Zoom there. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. It's a resolution. I would move that we pass this resolution, Mr. Mayor. I have a question. Is there a city council member who's a part of the board? No. No? Okay. But I'm sure if a city council member wanted to sit in on the meetings, they would be certainly welcome.
 Help me out that that board is as a new member that board is strictly an advisory board. Is that correct? All right anything else Sorry But you okay any final comments to the council before we vote All right. Thank you Yolanda very much and Kyle you'll probably be seeing this again. So all right I
 in motion second Jackson Skull Row Harvey yes Jones yes Moore yeah Whittaker yes Berna yes Bunch yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes thank you council very much
 all right number two an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 23-006 located at 920 southwood avenue in ward 1 for approximately 0.4 a acres from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban yeah be it ordained by the city council the city of favor arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and their legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville in the Walker Park area. More specifically it is in Ward 1 and it's along the east side of Wood Street which is a north-south street between MLK to the north but does not connect all the way down to 15th Street to the south. It's by equidistance between College to the west and Morningside to the east.
 Wood Avenue has a back-of-the-curb sidewalk that runs along the west side of the street, and from staff's measurements, it does look like it's currently capable of handling on-street parking as far as width goes. The property itself includes a bit less than half an acre, and it's developed with a single, approximately 500-square-foot single-family home, but is otherwise undeveloped.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU, residential intermediate urban. When looking at this from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find the request to be compatible. Despite what you can see on the map here, which is a largely uniform NC zoning designation in this area, there is a fairly mixed range of residential uses that may not be apparent just looking at the map.
 Immediately to the north is an eight-plex, a multi-family building in other terms. And immediately across the street to the west are several duplexes along Wood Street. Otherwise, it is largely single-family in the immediate vicinity before segueing into some more multi-family developments, Morgan Manors to the southwest and Nantucket, of course, is to the southeast. Okay.
 When looking at the comparison of the existing zoning versus the proposed zoning in an urban form standpoint as was discussed earlier tonight Both zoning districts do have a what's called a build to zone requiring the building to be closer to the street While it is somewhat divergent points and immediately adjacent to this property There is a fair mix of housing placements as how close or far they are from the street along with Avenue
 When looking at the request from an adopted land use plan standpoint, staff did find it to be largely consistent. This area is designated on our future land use map as a residential neighborhood, which is intended to support a wide range of housing types. The requested RYU zoning district does allow single, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 Looking at it through the lens of the Walker Park neighborhood master plan, staff's findings were a little bit mixed, but the Walker Park plan has a lot of goals to it. On one hand, the plan calls for the preservation of existing housing, but it also includes the encouragement of adding a more diverse housing type of the neighborhood in an effort to reintroduce
 some of those non-residential uses in the population needed to support them. You can see here on the map where it sits within the illustrated plan, it's kind of towards the east central portion of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan's boundaries.
 When looking at the info rating, it does have what you would expect to see. This goes to downtown. It gets credit for seven items, fire response, also has access to water and sewer, of course. Parks and trail are nearby. Walker Park is about a quarter mile to the west. Transit is located nearby as well. And overall the property is, I believe it's about two-thirds of a mile from the downtown square as the crow flies.
 As far as other issues to consider, this request would take the true canopy requirement for the property from 20 to 15 percent.
 Also, and something I alluded to at the agenda session, there was a conversation about spot zoning at the Planning Commission. Not necessarily an assertion that this was spot zoning, but it does periodically come up when when colors change significantly on a zoning map. Hopefully you're able to consider the City Assistant City Attorney's memo on the subject, but in quick summation.
 A spot zoning is generally considered something that is entirely different from surrounding properties. And then the city attorney's office estimation going from residential to residential does not necessarily constitute spot zoning. If the city council or planning commission were to deny a request such as this one, it should not be on the grounds of spot zoning. It should be with concerns like other ones we've discussed this evening, whether it's compatibility or incompatibility or traffic concerns.
 With all that said, staff is recommending in favor of the request, and the Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously recommending an approval. There was not a lot of conversation beyond discussing spot zoning. They found the request to be appropriate, and staff has not heard any public comment on the item either before, at, or since the Planning Commission meeting.
 I'm happy to take any questions that council has and I believe Tanya Mahoney Vasquez is available online as the applicant for this item mayor thank you okay with that kind of like speak for the council you have ten minutes hi thank you for reviewing this tonight and I think Jonathan explained everything very thoroughly I'm here for questions but I don't have much to add okay
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Nope? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage any one public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this tonight on this topic?
 Okay, there's no one on zoom either. Okay. All right, and I'm gonna bring it back to the council This is an ordinance what discussion with the council like to have what action with the council? Will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second to go to the second reading Jackson? Please call the roll. All right. Yes Jones yes
 Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. And your order is to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-6 located at 920 Southwood Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately half an acre from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 I'm going to suspend the rolls and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Erna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Yes.
 and in order to rezone that property described and rezoning petition rzn 23-6 located at 920 southwood avenue in ward 1 for approximately half an acre from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council yes
 okay just real nearby here you know i live really close to this and uh we've had a really nice pattern of of this type of zoning throughout the nc and it's worked really well and kind of given the transition and would really need the housing so i'm glad to see kind of that kind of coming into this one block or i guess it's a couple blocks over and it's been working really well so i'll be supporting it okay anything else
 Yes, please call the roll. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Perna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Burke. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 23-005.
 located at 514 South Willow Avenue in Ward 1, approximately .25 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC, Neighborhood Conservation, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us a little bit to the northwest. Still won't be considered the Walker Park neighborhood, but just north of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard along the east side of Willow Avenue between MLK to the south and Huntsville to the north.
 The property is currently developed with a single family home that has a shared driveway and accessory structure between it and the north. And that's a little bit of additional reference. This is just east of the Church of Christ, which is nearby on the other side of Willow Avenue. The request is to rezone the property from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible. This, similar to the last item, is an area of mixed residential uses and non-residential uses in addition to the aforementioned church immediately to the northwest, Jefferson School is to the southwest, and as you get towards 7th Street and Huntsville, there's also a range of small-scale non-residential uses.
 Immediately nearby there are duplexes, single-family homes, triplexes, and as you get wider a field you begin to see an even wider diversity of housing types including multifamily buildings.
 When it comes to the adopted plans, one of these findings will be very similar to the last item. It also has a feature land use map designation of a residential neighborhood area. Staff finds in this particular area that does certainly justify a diversity of housing types which RAU is accommodating of allowing single, two, three, and four family dwellings.
 We also find it to be complimentary of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan. One unique thing worth noting on this piece of property that was not on the Walker Park plan on the other one is that plan envisioned a cut-through street coming in from the west to connect to Willow and potentially opening up what is an otherwise undevelopable area in between the two streets that could potentially allow for some appropriate housing close to the urban core.
 Otherwise, again, similar to the last item, the infill rating is a seven. That includes for fire response, water and sewer, trail and park. This property is even closer to Walker Park and the downtown square. Similar to the last item as well, the neighborhood conservation zoning district changing to an RAU zoning district represents a 5% reduction in tree canopy requirements.
 As I noted before, this site is unique in that it was originally built with a shared garage. The applicant is well aware of the issues that poses and then they've been discussing what their options are moving forward. And also similar to the last item, there was a discussion about spot zoning. Different to the last item though, there was a little bit more discussion about what these continuous requests, especially to go from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban in this area, represent as far as...
 The the perhaps antiquity or obsolescence of the Walker Park master plan. It sounds like the planning commission may be interested in exploring whether revisiting that plan, updating it, or doing a whole new plan merits some attention. So that's something I believe their long range committee will be considering soon and we'll certainly keep you up to date on on what they're proposing.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission afforded to City Council unanimously recommending approval as well. They found it was an appropriate request. And again, there was a little bit of conversation about the Walker Park plan as a part of that. We've also received no public comment on this item to date. I'm happy to take questions. And David White and Adams Collins are here as the present as the applicants mayor for this item. Thank you. Okay.
 Okay, would like to speak for the council at ten minutes Good evening council and mayor. Thank you my name is David white and I'm representing the property owner and When just not much to say I want to compliment the planning department and the curse on Helping us through the process of rezoning. I think it meets with our
 the appropriate housing in that area. And as I see the sign come up here about Enfield, I think it meets a lot of the goals of the city. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 all right does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff Teresa I don't know who to direct this to but could you explain a little bit more about the shared driveway in the shared garage and what kind of
 challenges that may pose to the other property owner and to this property owner? Sure, certainly need to defer to the applicant if they have anything to speak to about the condition of it or the relationship with the neighboring property owner but there are some allowances in our ordinance that we specifically added in recent years because there's so many properties and the historic or older parts of Fayetteville that have shared accessory structures. It was a very not
 not common but not unusual element of neighborhood construction where people can afford their own garage to their own accessory dwelling unit would often build it straddling a property line this is a similar condition but again if you're curious about the the ownership concerns or anything I definitely need to defer to the applicant thank you would you like to be able to address that sir
 I think Mr. Collins has been in contact with the neighbor. Currently, that house to the north that has the shared garage is vacant, and it's an old family. I don't know. Those homes must be 80 years old, 80, maybe 90 years old. The garage reflects that. Currently, it's just being used for some storage of...
 old items and obviously no one's living in the house. He's had a discussion with one of the family members and there's consideration on their part to maybe do something different with their property, but nothing currently.
 The building department has told us that they would have to, in order to demolish that or tear that structure down, they'd have to get a notarized letter and signed by the adjacent property owner. So before anything could be developed, that would have to be addressed. So that garage is owned by both parties, by both properties? Yes. Correct. Okay. All right. Thank you. Anything else for the staff?
 very good have the council members heard anything from anybody nope nope okay all right well we'll take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone from public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak to that you'd like to address us on this in the chamber
 Okay, Susan, you got anybody? No, sir. Okay, we're going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council, and what action or discussion would you all like to have?
 Mr. Mayor? Yes. On the first two zoning requests we had comments from neighbors, we had a non-unanimous planning commission that themselves had pretty animated and interesting discussion. On these last two it's unanimous with the planning commission, no neighbor comments of concern or opposition. So I would be comfortable requesting that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay.
 did you get okay we got a motion the same go to the second raiden jackson would you please call the row harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes punch yes kirk yes herzberg yes
 In order to rezone that property, it is described in the rezoning petition RZN 23-5, located at 514 South Willow Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately a quarter acre from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. Motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Perna. Yes. Punch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Yes.
 and ordinance the reason that property is cried in a rezoning petition rzn 23-5 located at 514 south little avenue in ward one for approximately a quarter acre from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council
 Jackson please call the roll Harvey yes Jones yes more yes Whitaker yes Erna yes punch yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes
 All right, thank you. All that concludes our business. Susan, do you have any announcements? Yes, sir. Just a reminder that we are in the middle of the spring bulky waste cleanup. So we had the first one last Saturday. We'll have three more. So make sure you check up on the website and identify where you can go drop off all your bulky waste at spring cleaning time. Okay.
 Do y'all have any announcements or anything the ordinance review tomorrow night? That's correct councilmember bunch ordinance reviews meeting at 5 o'clock. I believe in room 326, okay, but that's a work session, right? Yes, correct. Yeah, sorry Thank you. That's gonna be a workshop session. So no public comment at this time We've had two other meetings with public comment at both of those so we just need to kind of knock some stuff out Thank you
 All right. Thank you, Jonathan.