I'd like to call the City Council meeting of April the 6th, 2021 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Jones. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Petty. Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you, Karen. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Well, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lyle Jordan. I am present with a limited number of essential support staff. City council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and pipe to the council chambers.
 Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal, and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting, viewing through Federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer,
 To request to speak during the public comment period, you must raise your virtual hand to be recognized. If you're accessing the meeting through a smartphone, tablet, or computer, please click the raise hand option to request to speak during public comment period. If you're calling into this meeting by phone, please press star nine to raise your virtual hand for public comment. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone.
 For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions in the search bar. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Okay, let us begin. First item of business tonight.
 on city council reports we have the advertising and promotion commission appointments confirmation uh sarah i believe you have this nope uh you're muted sarah i don't know if anybody sent me anything or not um i really don't i don't know did you get anything sonia sonia didn't get anything okay no okay well you know usually i get some
 Go on to the next thing. Okay, it's fine. I'll get back through here and see if I've gotten an email. It's supposed to be on here, but I hadn't gotten anything. Okay, it's cool. We'll just come back when we get back. If we don't get back tonight, we'll get back another time. Simple enough. All right, let's go on then to the consent agenda. Before I get done reading all of this, I'm sure you'll have plenty of time to get anything in that you might need.
 All right, only consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 2nd, 2021 and March 16th, 2021 City Council meeting events. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of office furniture on an as-needed basis from various vendors and for varying unit prices pursuant to cooperative purchasing agreements approved by the Arkansas Office of State Procurement
 through march 31st 2023 and any future renewal periods number three a resolution to award bid number 21-28 authorized contract with diamond seed construction company any amount of 377 146.74 for construction of trail connection and bridge over hamstring creek to approve a
 Projects continue to see any amount of $50,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 trail improvement bond project.
 Number four, resolution to award bid number 21-26 and authorized contract with Sweets for Construction, incorporated any amount of $197,127.50 for construction of the Ramsey Avenue drainage improvements project to approve project contingency any amount of $29,500 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is the 2019 drainage improvements bond project. Number five,
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers and Corporate pursuant to RFQ
 20-01, Selection 25, in the amount of $215,885 for design service associated with the industrial drive extension project, contingent upon approval by the Economic Development Administration, and to approve a budget adjustment. This is the 2019 Economic Development Bond Project.
 Number six, a resolution to approve an amended utility relocation agreement with American Electric Power. Any amount of $53,020.61 for utility relocations related to the Church Avenue-Meadow Street sidewalk project and approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 transportation bond project. Number seven.
 a resolution to award rfq 21-01 selection number two and authorized mcclellan consulting consulting engineers as the primary supplier and gts incorporated as a secondary supplier of on-call materials testing services based on price and availability is needed through march 31st 2022.
 number eight a resolution to award rfq 21-01 and to approve mcclellan consulting engineers incorporated as primary provider and olsen associates corporate
 as secondary provider of on-call surveying services needed through march 31st 2022. number nine a resolution to award rfq 20-05 to authorize purchase of on-call appraisal services from reed and associates corporation and rife and company appraisers incorporated as needed through december 31st 2021 through three all with three automatic one-year renewals number ten
 a resolution to prove the dedication of approximately 1674 square feet of permanent utility easement at the southwest corner of walker park and approximately 2 911 square feet of permanent utility easement on lot 5 block 7 of burl dodd subdivision to black hills energy arkansas incorporated for placement of a gas pipeline number 11
 a resolution to amend resolution 76-21 and authorized purchase of a john deere loader from scribbling equipment llc of springdale in the amount of 165 957.86 plus taxes and freight charges presented to a source well cooperative purchasing contract
 Number 12, a resolution to approve the purchase of car wash chemicals from Whiting Systems Incorporated pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract in various quantities for the duration of the contract.
 13. A resolution to approve the purchase of a backhoe replacement engine from Springdale Tractor Incorporated in the amount of $13,577.51 plus any applicable sales taxes, freight charges, and to approve the budget adjustment. 14.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of audiovisual equipment and associated installation services from Howard Industries, Inc. in the amount of $25,418.19 pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials Value Point Co-Opting Purchasing Contract to improve the project's contingency in the amount of $2,541.81.
 Number 15, a resolution to approve a one-year contract extension with InstaForum Technologies, LLC, any amount not to exceed $528,693.55 for rehabilitation of staff.
 Sanitary sewer mains using cured in place sanitary sewer linings. Number 16, a resolution to approve a one-year contract snitching Kraft Rentals Construction Company in the amount of $590,789 for rehabilitation of sanitary sewer manholes throughout the... Number 17, a resolution to authorize a contract with FTN Associates LTD pursuant to RFQ 21-01...
 Selection number three for the development of toxicity reduction evaluation action plan for the Westside Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $45,000. And project intensity in the amount of $9,000. All right, team.
 A resolution to approve change order number one to Carlson Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $457,176 for the construction of a green parking lot at Kessler Mountain Regional Park to approve a project contingency in the amount of $46,000 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number 19, a resolution to approve change order number two with Garver LLC in the amount of $11,470 for construction administration services associated with the green parking lot, Casper Mountain Regional Park to approve project contingency in the amount of $3,000 in approved budget adjustment.
 Number 20, a resolution to amend resolution 34-21 and to reduce the amount of reappropriations to the 2021 budget by $10,658,481 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 21, a resolution to approve change order number two, construction managers at risk contract with Flintco LLC for the police headquarters project.
 any amount of $3,943,963 to approve a project contingency any amount of $100,000 and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 Police Headquarters Bond Project. Number 22, a resolution to approve the 2021 Fire and Police Pay and Benefit Study prepared by Johansson Group and to adopt the 2021 Fire and Police Step Plan.
 I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Strogon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Gertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 It passed, Mayor. Okay. Before we move on to the other item, I just want to let everyone know that Lisa Branson, the Deputy Clerk in the City Clerk's Office, sent on March 18th at 11.37 a.m. the request
 A&P commission appointments PDF. It looks like it was around 1137 a.m. And it was sent to Council Member Bunch and Perfect Copy, Council Member Kenyon, Council Member Turk, Council Member Gutierrez, and then myself. Thank you for pointing that out to me, Kara. I don't know how I lost an email from March 13th.
 I really don't. But we have in our file a letter from Molly Ron, the CEO of Experience Fayetteville. The A&P committee interviewed, I think they interviewed nine applicants, and chose to recommend Andrew, I don't know if that's Pricebee,
 uh for uh for the citizen at large position and the tourism industry position to go to the existing uh committee member todd martin nominating committee was all in in agreement with that we didn't have a problem with that and we did not ask to re-interview the people so i think nominating is uh in agreement with this suggestion from the a p
 Agree. Thank you. So we need a motion and a second to appoint the nomination committee's appoints, I suppose. I will move that we appoint the nominating committee suggested applicants. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to appoint the nominating committee's appoints. Kevin, please call the roll. Scroggin?
 Bench? Yes. Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 118.01, clickability of chapter 118, business registry and licenses.
 Chapter 151 definitions, Chapter 161 zoning regulations, 162.01, establishment listing of Chapter 162 use units and Chapter 163 use conditions and the unified development code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals. This is left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Otherwise, Kit's going to have to read it.
 I can move it but I bet we're gonna table it. I'll second the motion. Was the motion made? Wait a minute. Let me back up and make sure I understand. Sloan you said that you're gonna move to table it rather than go to the third and final reading. Is that correct? Later on, yeah.
 I think you said later on. Oh, later on. Okay. I got you. I just didn't understand what you said. If we go to the third and final reading, is that too late to table it? No, you can table it, Mark, even if you go to the third and final reading. Okay. That's what I just wanted to say. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was going to, you know, if you did go to the third and final reading, wanted to let you all know, if you wanted to table it, you can still table it. I mean, we've tabled it on the second reading several times. So I suppose, I mean, third reading could be tabled as well.
 It's become complicated. Well, I know. I totally understand. Do we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading? I will move that we go to the third and final reading. Okay. I'll second that one, too. Okay. All right. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Banks? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. An ordinance amends Section 11801, applicability of Chapter 118, business registry and licenses. Chapter 151, definitions. Chapter 161, zoning regulations. Section 16201, establishment listing of Chapter 162, use units.
 and Chapter 163 use conditions of the Unified Development Code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations, permit and inspect the rentals. I did send you out what the ordinance review committee had asked me to do, which is include a sunset clause to this enactment ordinance. And I would hope that that's the section two that I sent out to you all. And I would hope that we would amend this enactment ordinance
 to include that sunset clause as recommended by the Ordinance Review Committee before any tabling is done. So I guess we need to discuss the amendment. Well, there needs to be a motion and a second first to amend it. I move to add the sunset clause. Second.
 Discussion or the vote? Well either one. What's the council wish? Do you want to go on the vote? Do you want to discuss this a little while? I'd like to discuss it. Sure. I agree with the sunset clause, the inclusion in there. But I think 20 months is too long. I'd prefer to shorten that.
 that time period to about 12 months, so that if there are some oversights that we have in whatever version of our regulations that we pass for short-term rentals or micro hotels, that we can quickly remedy that effectively. So I would like to shorten that sunset period to one year. Okay, from 20 months to 12 months, basically. That's correct, Mayor. Okay.
 I have a question on this. Why exactly, I'm trying to pull up the email here, but why did we choose 20 months? It seems kind of an odd, you know, it's not a year and a half. It's not a year. There's a six month break in period.
 Okay. Okay. The ordinance. And then. Yep. That makes sense. The discussion at the ordinance review committee and Sloan, obviously the chairman. So you can respond to that on, on, we were looking at 14 months beyond the,
 that but that's up to you all and Sloan go ahead. Yeah basically we want to hit all major events after the the six-month grace period so if we're missing something like bikes, blues, and barbecue or Christmas or we wanted to make sure that all the different events during the year don't cause significant issues. So since we've got that six-month
 you know kind of grace period we would only if we did a year we'd only actually have six months of real information yeah yeah yes well well just procedurally right now i have a motion of an amendment on the amendment well there hasn't been a second to it well that's what i'm telling you second amendment second on the second amendment
 they can still discuss the entire amendment i think which is 20 months at this point in time i just want to remember that theresa does have a motion to take it from 20 to 12. okay let's continue on then now i i i mean i may be incorrect but i think uh um council member turk is concerned that we can't fix stuff early it's
 Is that true that we wouldn't be able to fix things early? So like in six months, nine months from now, we realize there's an issue. Could, could we start fixing it then? It kind of depends on what pictures we want to put in it. If you made a very, very substantial change that would still make it somewhat shaky. So you might want to make, you might want to make it slightly shorter, but I think like you said, the ordinance review committee wanted to have at least a year of
 That would make it, you could reduce it to 18 months. You'd still have a year when it's totally in effect. But no, I think in order to safely, the reason we put the sunset clause on is because it protects us from the Private Property Protection Act because the same ordinance that would give them the right to operate
 would also sunset it so that they couldn't complain if we changed it or didn't continue it at that time. But if we did it ahead of time, there could be some problems with the Private Property Protection Act. Yeah, I mean, I'm hoping that we don't sunset it after we sunset it. Like it's one time. So that's why I'm a little more okay with
 enough time to get all that data. And I think the reason it wasn't six months plus a year was that it does take some time to collect, to compile the data and have us look at it. So it wasn't like literally the day that we made it through a year, we had to make a decision, we had time to look at data. Because this issue is so complex,
 And if we do have to make a major adjustment, I would really like to have that option. So again, that's why I'm suggesting
 that it's a shorter term than 20 months. I understand we do need good information. We do need to have some relevant and valid data. I get that. I appreciate that information, that perspective. I just want to make sure that if we have some serious problems that we can make those adjustments quickly and not have anything in our way. Yeah.
 Yeah, from my perspective as a member of the ordinance review committee, we discussed the timing of the sunset at length and for the reasons that Chairperson Scroggins enumerated. But also we talked about the value of the sunset in terms of setting expectations for people that might want to operate under the ordinance. You know, right now we've got
 a couple hundred of these operating illegally in the city, which is why we're considering this. So we shouldn't really, in my estimation, you know, you should vote no on this if you expect already that it's wrong enough that it's gonna require major changes before the sunset is here. And if it turns out that, you know, the ordinance has been,
 not formed correctly through all of our deliberations and we do have something that's structurally wrong with it or that or there is some kind of major impact that that was unintended we'll declare an emergency and we'll amend it you know for as soon as possible um i have a lot of faith that the council can enter into those kinds of deliberations you know with uh um
 with reasonable expectations for actually addressing real problems. But in any case, I do think the ordinance review committee discussed the timing of the sunset and the grace period really at length and landed on this for the reasons the chairman described. Okay. Any other?
 discussion on the 12 month. At this point, Mayor, I will note that actually the only amendment that's on the floor is the one that's proposed by the Ordinance Review Committee because Councilmember Turk's second amendment on that has not had a second yet. So unless it has a second, then it will, you know, then it's over and we're back to the original amendment. That's why I asked for a second. So is there a second on the 12 month sunset?
 Okay, it does for lack of a second. Okay, now we're back to the 20 months. All right, what other discussions do we have on the 20 months sunset? Okay, all right, we have a motion and a second on 20 months sunset. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Now we have the amended ordinance before us. I think the next staff, Mary's next as the staffer on this. Mary, you want to give a presentation? You have 10 minutes. You might want to try without the headset. Mary, we don't hear you yet. Can you say something? Yes. Okay.
 Well, well. Mary, I would try it without the headset. Okay. Well, here we are. Or just remove the headset. Mary, we need you to check your audio input. Heats on the way.
 Well, okay, let's just let's go on with the test. Okay, very good. Okay. Okay, I'm back. Your time is up. No. Please give me five more minutes. Go ahead. Okay. Good afternoon. I'm Mary. I'm from the University of Michigan.
 Staff was directed by council in July of 2019 to research and provide draft regulation for the purpose of creating guiding policy for short-term rentals.
 You know, in that resolution, it was stated that there are many benefits from regulation of short-term rentals, including increased sales tax revenue, reduced noise, parking, traffic, trash problems in neighborhood, etc., ensuring a level playing field between traditional homes, hotels, and illegal short-term rentals, and ensuring compliance with building safety regulations, improving responsiveness to neighbor complaints, and sending a clear message to the residents of the city that they're not going to be able to afford to pay for the rent.
 we take short-term rental problems seriously. Staff has spent the last two years researching, holding numerous public outreach sessions, and drafting ordinances to achieve the stated goals of the council resolution. Since that time, a draft ordinance has been approved by Planning Commission and reviewed twice by Ordinance Sub-Review Committee.
 tonight staff will present the amendments to the ordinance as forwarded by the ordinance sub review committee and here you can see a short timeline of of the the process that we we've taken um in the last year and a half to to move this this ordinance forward per the resolution one thing i do want to mention um and it it can be confusing but
 you know, Airbnb is the major platform that people use to list their properties, but there are numerous other platforms. And so when we talk about short-term rentals, we're not explicitly talking about Airbnbs. We're talking about various platforms and new platforms pop up all the time. And so you can see here a little bit of a breakdown of how the properties, how people list their properties across these platforms. I just want to
 clarify that Airbnb is not a catch-all for short-term rentals. It is a platform through which people list their short-term rentals.
 So a couple of the changes that came out of ordinance subcommittee to the existing ordinance, the six-month grace period, there was some language adjustment there. And we added some language essentially saying that existing short-term rental operators may temporarily continue to operate and shall have up to six months to obtain a business license to be considered in compliance. And we've talked about this grace period, you know, a number of times.
 to qualify for this exemption, we do state that satisfactory proof of operation within the last three years and prior to the enactment date must be provided. Moving on here, you know,
 It's been noted that the language in this section could be potentially challenging as it allows those operators that have been potentially operating illegally to move into compliance in the grace period with proof of operation, but does not grant those same privileges to landlords who would like to operate short term rentals but have not been operating illegally.
 Staff proposes that a potential solution to this and a way to level this playing field is to strike the qualification requiring that a short-term rental operator provide proof of operation.
 Additionally, should a landlord have current long-term tenants and want to obtain a short-term rental permit for use in the future, so they're contractually bound to a long-term lease in the six-month period, they would also be able to have the opportunity to apply for a permit within the grace period. So by striking this language, you're essentially leveling the playing field and having everybody start from zero.
 A couple of other changes to the grace period was that the two, three, and four-unit buildings, where there's currently more than one unit operating as a short-term rental, could obtain business license for all their currently operating units under the grace period.
 And then that all type two short-term rentals submitting an application for a business license or permit after the six-month grace period is expired, she'll be required to obtain an individualized conditional use permit. Other amendments that were approved at the ordinance subcommittee review include the adoption of an insurance rider. So essentially this is a rider requiring that you have specific insurance for short-term rental.
 And then there was additional language for the occupancy. You know, we had a maximum of two people per bedroom plus two, regardless of the number of bedrooms. In the original ordinance, we did have a cap. That cap has been removed and we have added language stating that this occupancy would only be allowed when a unit is operated as a short-term rental unit.
 Um, you know, hundreds of cities across the country have successfully regulated short-term rentals, which make them safer and better integrated into the surrounding community. After reviewing various code from municipalities from Bozeman, Montana to Austin, Texas, to
 But Vero Beach, Florida staff has determined that all of these municipalities include a section in code that stated that increased occupancy applied only when the short-term rental unit was operating legally as a short-term rental. And that held up in court in numerous challenges. We've also talked about the sunset clause, which I think we have all covered and fully understand, but that was adopted at the subcommittee.
 Other approved amendments include the adoption of language where a representative or an owner must be present within three hours of being contacted. And what we did was we added language that said at the sole discretion of emergency services or the zoning and development administrator, development services director.
 Um, we also added some language around density. Um, we added here that not more than 10% or a single unit, whichever is greater of total dwelling units as type two rentals within a multifamily dwelling complex would be allowed. So essentially you would be able to have about 10% of a large scale apartment complex or an apartment complex operating as short term rentals.
 We also noted that we would not allow individual two, three, and four family buildings that are owned by the same person or entities, if that language was added, that are not part of a multifamily complex to have more than one type two unit. So you could do that in the grace period. You could get those types of units permitted, but afterwards you would not be able to do that.
 The other thing we talked about were short terminal types. I know there's been a lot of discussion around this, and I'm sure tonight we'll have a little bit more, but I wanted to provide you with a short synopsis of those different types. And then these are our current type one and type twos, which I think everyone is really familiar with. And then there's some possible type threes, right?
 And these are type threes that other municipalities have adopted and that have worked well for them in the face of some of the same concerns that have been raised with our type one and type two not being all encompassing. So I'll let you take a look at these, and I'm sure we'll have additional discussion, but these are the possible additional types that could be considered. Okay.
 And we can come back to that and I can answer any questions about that that you need. We also talked a little bit about state and local taxes. And what I want to say here is that, you know, very in various areas, short term rental companies and platforms have made agreements with governments to collect and remit local taxes on behalf of their host.
 Here in Fayetteville, the A&P has an agreement with Airbnb in which Airbnb calculates HMR taxes, collects them from guests at the time of booking, and remits them to the city. This has been happening, so we have been getting a good chunk of those HMR taxes remitted. If you think about the fact that over 72% of our listings are listed with Airbnb, it's calculated that about the
 total amount, if we had everyone in compliance submitting their HMR taxes, it would be about $40,000. So it's not a huge amount. And we are getting about 70% of that now through Airbnb. So I just wanted to note that that's the amount and that's where we are on that. But we are getting taxes remitted through Airbnb at this time. And they are the only platform that we have an agreement with.
 Additionally, the last consideration that I'd like to discuss is enforcement. And this is extremely important. I know that it's come up a lot. A lot of people are concerned about adequate enforcement. And I want to say that this is a very nuanced issue due to the nature of short-term rentals being fairly transient and people coming and going. But we have and will continue to investigate complaints associated with short-term rentals and work closely with the PD in order to ensure compliance.
 Should a complaint be valid, the Development Services Director and staff will establish a pattern of non-compliance. And if that pattern of non-compliance can be established, this may lead to revocation of your business license or a conditional use permit, depending on the type of STR. And then should that operator continue to operate without a license?
 we could prosecute. So I wanted to give you a short outline of enforcement. I know this is a lot of information. I'll be happy to answer any questions that you have. On the, I think that one of the questions I have is on enforcement. I didn't, I honestly didn't pay attention to that. I don't think the PD enforces that sort of thing do the chief chief, you might wanna address that.
 Yeah, Mayor, thank you. That's not something that we would normally enforce. That would usually fall under something to do with code compliance. It's typically what we see, so I've not had any communication on this issue. If I may...
 Anything that would be code compliant, so anything in the ordinance that would be code compliant, we would obviously investigate as staff, which we do now. If there is anything that's illegal, so if there is a nuisance complaint or a noise complaint or a large party that was reported to PD, so there's a difference there, and I apologize for not clarifying that. That's a little different. If it's a noise complaint or a party or something. Okay, I got you. I got you.
 So Mary, I have a question about the duplexes because I know some places where there are like little, you know, it's not an apartment complex or anything, but there might be two or three duplexes or four duplexes right together. So if someone owns property like that, would they be limited to one duplex?
 STR for all the duplexes they have or would it be one per unit which would be a duplex would be one unit?
 Sure. Jonathan, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes are not necessarily considered multifamily. So if someone has three duplexes in a court, say, it's my understanding that they would be able to operate as if each one would be an individual unit or an individual grouping of units. So they would be able to have that one unit group.
 one short-term rental in each building. Is that correct Jonathan? Correct. Yeah, the city's Unified Development Code defines multifamily differently than it does single two or three family dwellings. Okay, thank you. What are the questions do we have from the council? I have a question if you're done, Councilmember Bunch. Go ahead. Yeah, sorry, I need to turn myself off. That's okay.
 So Mary, when you looked at some of these other cities, I think you mentioned Bozeman, Montana, and a couple of these other cities, did they have restrictions in place like we do for what is considered a family with like three unrelated people in a residential area? Did they have similar kinds of restrictions, and were they also, or had any of those been challenged illegally? No.
 So I would have to go back through my research to tell you exactly, um, the occupancy limits for each city, but I can tell you that ours was probably one of the more stringent. Um, a lot of them had four to five unrelated people in a, in a home. Um, I didn't find anyone with three, um, in the cities that I mentioned that I can recall off of the top of my head. So ours was probably the strictest. Um,
 And there, I believe it was Austin that did have a suit brought in relation to that, but they so basically saying that.
 Austin said that you could not, they tried to not increase occupancy and there was a suit brought against them and they lost. So they were required to allow that increased occupancy for short-term rentals. I may be wrong about it being Austin, but I'm pretty sure it is. And I'll pull that research for you. But we did have some of the stricter occupancy requirements. Okay.
 Or any of the occupancy requirements like the one that we have or those overruled or eliminated because of the short term rentals. I mean, you know, my neighborhood, I wasn't here at the time, but I am sure my neighborhood was one of the major movers in getting that three number of unrelated people limit in place. And I know that that has been extremely helpful over here and they would not want to lose that.
 Absolutely. And as far as I can find, no. What they did was they were required to add a line of code that stated that the expanded occupancy only applied when the unit was operated as a short-term rental, which I've included in ours. So none of the occupancy levels or rates were directly challenged or applied.
 required to be amended, the short-term rental code was required to be amended to account for that change. Thank you. So Mary, if you had one that kind of operated, sometimes it was a long-term rental and sometimes it was a short-term rental, that would only apply when it was used as a short-term rental then? That is correct. So if you were using it as a long-term rental and you bounced back and forth, that would still be in effect.
 That is correct. You would, if you were bouncing back and forth between long-term and short-term, you would be responsible for meeting the requirements of the code for short-term at the time that it was operated as a short-term rental. Mary, I had a couple questions about parking. After our ordinance review committee meeting, I spoke with a couple of different residents who were concerned about the occupancy and the associated parking. Could you kind of speak to that?
 Um, sure. I think, you know, there's been some concern about, about parking. We do have some districts in the city that require residential parking permits for on street parking, but for the most part, um, on street parking is allowed throughout the city. So, you know, right now, if you're in a residential area, you can have, I believe it's four cars, um, in the driveway. And
 it's allowed, you can park in the street. And so that would not change for short-term rentals. You would be required to meet the parking requirements and limits of your underlying zoning. So, you know, if people...
 Now, if you have a long-term rental and you had guests, you could park in the street. However, with a short-term rental ordinance, special events are not allowed. So you wouldn't be able to have 20 or 30 cars there. So there's a little nuance there, but they are required to meet the underlying zoning. Okay, thank you. Okay, one other question, Sue Ann, the council.
 I have a few more. Sure, absolutely. So, Mary, I appreciate you including some of the information about enforcement. What I'm concerned about is the establishment of a pattern. You know, a pattern can be three things. It can be ten things. It could be two, two valid concerns that were so egregious that
 development services or the Fayetteville PD, depending on what it was, might take action. So I'm wondering if you have thoughts or narrowed down language about what the pattern would entail
 You know, I've gotten a lot of complaints from residents. What's very interesting that at least on my one block, I have a neighbor that has a short-term rental where it's a pure type one. I have another short-term rental where it's a pure type two. And then I have a short-term rental that I would call the type three that you identified where it's the house right next door and she owns both of them.
 So, just within my one block, I have all those different types of short-term rentals. And, I mean, maybe there's another one in there. But the type two has definitely had a lot of complaints. And I know that there is a reluctance to grandfather them in under what we had kind of discussed in prior versions.
 And there's also a willingness, a request to find out exactly what enforcement would be because, as I mentioned, there's been problems in the past. So I think it's very important that we very clearly identify how we handle enforcement before we go forward.
 Sure. And I totally agree. I think, like I said, it's with the transient nature of this type of rental, it can be difficult to, enforcement can be difficult, but I think we have a good system set up. I know we haven't received a ton of complaints and I understand in the past few years that maybe the reason is because people don't really know where to go to complain anymore.
 But essentially we would be starting with a level playing field here. And so should a complaint come from someone that is licensed, that would obviously be investigated. And I'll let Jonathan Kurth talk a little bit about enforcement because I don't necessarily handle a lot of our current enforcement. And we do have a process set up for code compliance and for occupancy complaints and things like that. So, Jonathan, I don't know if you want to talk a little bit about that.
 happy to thank you uh just as a kind of overview of a typical violation that comes into the city it is a complaints-based system as council probably knows so the first step is usually a complaint is submitted to staff either anonymously or with information associated with it by phone by email through the city's website and staff's first responsibility is to investigate the invest investigate the complaint to determine whether there's a valid
 to it or to communicate to the resident why it is or is not a complaint. When we are able to determine that there is a valid violation, the first step is to issue a violation letter. And this begins that train of establishing a pattern of noncompliance, to put it in kind of the internal lingo we use.
 And the first step to that from the property owner's point of view is if they need to respond to it, there's a time within which they need to respond. If they don't, it's considered an outstanding violation and we generally proceed depending on the type of violation to respond.
 possibly revoke some sort of license or permit they hold or forward the complaint to the prosecuting attorney. If the applicant or property owner rather does respond, our goal is always to continue moving towards resolution. And this is where it becomes, I hate to say it because the term itself is subjective, but it becomes something of an art
 where it depends on the nature of the violation, to your point, if a property owner's house is falling down, the goal is not to take it to city council and have the house raised and removed immediately. The goal is for them to be able to have the opportunity to remediate the issue. And we usually do that by asking the property
 property owner to establish a timeline. We do want to make sure it's reasonable from the city's perspective, from the property owner's perspective and from the complainant's expectations. That's always something in the forefront of our mind is to ensure that we're being responsive
 And from there, if those timelines are not met, we need to establish why they were not met, if there's any valid reason to that. But sometimes it is from that point that most complaints do end up at the prosecuting attorney or in a situation where a permit or license may be revoked.
 Just to follow up, Jonathan, thank you so much. Let's just say that they were out of compliance twice, that you had sent them a letter twice, they had responded.
 or you'd sent them a letter, they had responded, then there was another complaint, you sent them a letter and they responded. At what point would you take away their business license? And is that an internal decision within the city or does that have to go to the prosecuting attorney? I would think it would be a city determination, but I'm just wondering about that process.
 that's correct there is a very specific process for business licenses in particular it does begin in development services since we are the issuing authority for business licenses once we've established that there's a violation we work with administration specifically the chief of a staff to establish a hearing where the property owner business license holder has their opportunity to make their case similar to
 like a conditional use permit appeal, which the council periodically hears. There's a few options where that the hearing can go. It can be, the license can be upheld or affirmed. They're allowed to keep their license. It could be revoked or it can be put in some state of probation where you, I think it's, I believe it's a 30 day probation is the way the ordinance is written.
 And if there's another violation in that period, I think that creates a heightened expectation that'll be revoked after that point. Beyond that, because our city attorney's office has always done a thorough job of making sure the city protects us and residents through due process, there is a final step where the action that comes from that hearing can be appealed to the city council. Okay.
 thank you i think a lot of folks don't understand that process and and that certainly clarified a lot a lot of the points for me thank you certainly other questions from the council sorry i have one more um thank you for indulging me i didn't see the ordinance review uh meeting uh obviously i'm not on ordinance review but um i wanted to just um go over exactly what a type one is now because i think the definition has been changed
 a little bit. And I've had some complaints from neighbors that their neighbors own a house, but they're gone most of the year. And so that might be where they pay their homestead tax or they get their homestead tax credit, but they're not actually physically there very much of the year. So I just wondered what the current status of the type one definition was right now.
 Sure. So right now a type one is a short-term rental that is owner and owner occupied dwelling where the owner is occupying, occupies the unit, right? Um, other cities have enacted, um,
 time limits on how long an owner has to actually be living there. So some say it's, you know, they have to live there 180 days out of the year. Some say they have to live there six months out of the year. Some say they have to live there nine months out of the year. And I have seen that come up in a lot of places. And I think perhaps it is something that may come up
 here. So it would be a little different if you, you know, just went out of town to rent your unit. In that case, say it's Bikes and Blues and you want to go, you know, stay in Little Rock and rent your, you're permitted and you want to rent your home as a short terminal, you would have to have a representative that could be at the home if there is an emergency. But
 obviously you're still, you know, a type one. I think if someone travels nine months out of the year and they have a representative, but it is not their true residence, we don't account for that in a type one. I really think we need to tighten that one up quite a bit. I just...
 I know it's going to be hard to track, but I think at a minimum, we should say that somebody should live there nine months a year. I don't know what the state requirement is for the homestead exemption, but it just seems like that's an easy way to skirt around a type one as the way we have it drafted right now. So that would be.
 I think we are going to end up tabling this. So I don't want to make a motion to amend what we have on the table right now. Just more of a discussion about some concerns that outstanding concerns I still have. Okay.
 I think this is a pretty good place to start though. I think we have to have something in place because right now we've got people that are renting out houses, whether they're type 1 or type 2, that are basically breaking our ordinance. We've got to have something in place. I think for
 From my perspective, I feel like saying that you have to live in the house nine months out of the year, I'd rather wait and see if that's actually going to be this monumental problem before we establish something like that. Because I don't, you know, it may be a problem in your neighborhood, Teresa, but, you know, maybe it's not all across the city. So I don't want to just craft everything based on what happens in your neighborhood. Yeah.
 So I hope that everybody had a chance. I mean, I know we're all super busy and Kitt's memo came out right before our meeting. But I think a lot of what he said, and I would really appreciate him to explain it to us, especially folks that didn't get a chance to read the memo today.
 but I think that he has a real elegant alternative that might work a lot better than what we have before us tonight. So I don't know if this is a good time for Kit to talk about that or if other people have questions about what Mary's put together. If you want to. Well if you want me to, I can talk.
 I'm sorry, Mayor, I couldn't hear you. I'm sorry. I was needing to get a little closer. That's what you asked Kit to do, isn't it? I would appreciate that, unless other council members have questions about the proposal that Mary has before us. Well, go ahead. I'm saying I'm fine to hear the alternative proposal that you have, Kit.
 Okay, I presented option two also to the Ordinance Review Committee, but again, like tonight, I got it really to them too late to have any kind of serious real discussion on it, and I apologize for that.
 I've been flooding you with memos, and I'm sorry for that too, but I just feel like this is an important issue involving equal protection of the laws. And it's my job, I think, as city attorney to point out potential issues before any real action was taken. I did discuss as option number one, just allowing everybody that wanted one to get a conditional use legislatively so they wouldn't have to go to the planning commission.
 whether it's a type one or type two or whatever. And of course, the major problem with that, that's more fair to the people that have been acting, landlords have been following our code rather than breaking it. But on the other hand, that means that you could have these more dense short-term rentals that could have eight, 10, 12 people in them
 throughout the city in any residential neighborhood, and there won't be any conditional use requirements, so people just do it as a right, basically. We'll be giving them a conditional use, and so I think that could cause problems in the neighborhoods because when I look at this issue, and from my experience going back to the drafting of the current definition of family, there was a lot of neighborhood concerns, and it was mainly over-occupation issues
 and parking and that's why this this uh definition of family was in fact enacted by the city council tried to address that and it did a very good job in fact we got rid of most of the complaints and problems because of that but there's the option that where you just give everybody a conditional use permit it means you're not being more unfair to the people following the law but i think it it is kind of a dangerous thing for all of the residential neighborhoods in fayetteville
 to suddenly have what would be called type two or a micro hotel in their particular neighborhood. So that is an issue for me. But what I then had kind of proposed to the Ordinance Review Committee and also included as my option two is a much less regulatory potential solution where,
 A type one or what I would just call a residential short-term rental would be a rental that would follow all of the current requirements for a normal rental. In other words, follow the density requirements, so no more than three or four if it's in a multifamily zone. Persons, rather than granting a short-term rental,
 two or three times as many persons that could stay there as we allow for a regular rental. So I would basically think that the major problems that we would face as a city in enforcing this and trying to keep problems from occurring would be those larger short-term rentals, which...
 has been defined as type two by planning. And I would just call them either a mini or micro hotel because they're basically acting like that, where even a three-bedroom house would be able to have eight short-term rental transient people come in,
 And so it's much more likely that over parking and over occupancy problems, noise and stuff like that would be generated by one of these short term rentals that has so many more people in it. And so I would recommend concentrating our regulatory actions on these micro hotels.
 My suggestion when it comes to the residential short-term rentals that would be following all the normal rules is I would not even require them to have almost any regulations. They have to pay the HMR taxes. But beyond that, I think they could be regulated just like a normal rental. They're just having a shorter term for tenants in there. But if everything else is the same as a regular rental, then I don't think there's any specific regulation.
 reason that we would have to place new regulations on them beyond just making sure they pay the HMR taxes but for the micro hotels I would follow much of what planning has has suggested for short-term rentals type twos where they have all these different requirements insurance inspections
 And someone has to appear there within three hours. I wouldn't have that for the short-term rentals that are just regular rentals. But for micro hotels, yes, I think that they should go the extra mile because they're much more likely to have problems caused by those sorts of establishment, I believe, just because of the number of people that are there.
 Basically, mine would be much less regulatory where I wouldn't place additional regulations on residential short-term rentals as long as they follow the normal rules. But with micro hotels, they would have to get a conditional use. But the conditional use would be I would include them in what is now allowed in our residential rentals.
 districts from RSF4 on, that they do allow limited business in all these residential districts, but the limited business is limited, like it says, in size, so that they're more likely to fit into the residential area.
 And the second thing is, is that in order to have a limited business in an RSF4 residential area or a standard area, you have to get a conditional use from the planning commission to allow a limited business. And as part of the limited business, one of the businesses that would be allowed would be these micro hotels as long as well as all the other, there's 20 or 30 other types of businesses that limited businesses allow. So this would just be another one of the businesses that would be allowed in there.
 Now, they would also be included, micro hotels, as general businesses, which are in other districts, and those districts allow an 8,000-square-foot micro hotel, where in a residential area, RSF4 area, the micro hotel would be limited to 3,000 square feet, just like all the other businesses. So that would also mean it would be hopefully less residential
 dangerous or upsetting to the neighborhood. This is, you know, I did draft that up. It's not certainly ready for any kind of adoption. I really need to know whether there's any interest on the city council to have a less regulatory system for regular residential short-term rentals as opposed to micro hotels. And if you want to just go in the direction that planning is, and I'm not going to
 that that's fine i think it does have some constitutional problems but uh so that's basically it i mean i i tried to explain as well as i could my memo it's uh actually much less regulatory except on micro hotels i have a question here before we get going on this
 Micro hotels, I thought were always just hotels with really teeny tiny little rooms. I mean, that's what I thought a micro hotel was. I've never heard the phrase micro hotel used until we got this email at 514 today. This five page email at 514 today. Has it ever been? I mean, we had type one and type two and possibly type three. And now all of a sudden we're calling something a micro hotel.
 I don't really, you know, that's what's confusing to me. And you're saying you're calling them also the regular rentals versus the irregular rentals. And I'm fine with referring to them as the way we've been, you know, referring to them as type one, type two, and possibly a third type instead of trying to throw in new lingo here at the last minute. Mary, have you, did you come across micro hotels in any of your research? No.
 I didn't. It's not a term that's usually associated with short-term rentals. It is associated with studio rentals, like in a hotel or a motel, but I never saw it associated with a short-term rental ordinance.
 And I should say, I'm not wedded to micro hotels. As I say in my memo, I say I would refer to it as a micro hotel, although any other easy to understand term would be acceptable. What I would like to do is very much differentiate a type two rental, what we're calling now, from a residential rental, because we need to show that the whatever you want to call it is,
 is actually a commercial establishment. And therefore, its density allowances for numbers of people in there are not the same as residential allowances, which the other residential short-term rentals would have. So I wanted to make some differentiate in term, whether it's micro hotel, mini hotel, or whatever,
 business sort of term you would use to describe them. So it is clear that is part of the limited business or general business allowances rather than just another residential. Because I think for defense of our definition of what is a family in residential areas, then it's much better if the term that doesn't follow that definition is clearly denoted as some sort of commercial activity
 And you can choose whatever word you would want. But I think it also would be more clear to our citizens if we don't say type one, type two, type three, which we're all going to talk about, but what most people don't really get a good, that's kind of like a jargon term where when you start talking about type one, type two, and type three, whether we can choose a more descriptive word.
 that means something about business or commercial activities, I think that would be preferable. But, you know, that's certainly nothing to, that is not necessarily required for what I've been proposing. Well, I guess one of my, you know, challenges when I read this email was, you're talking about residential short-term rentals.
 And that's where we're having the problem to begin with is, is where it is in residential areas. You know, so that, I mean, I don't really, you know, where, where they're not, where they're not adhering to the code because they're in a residential area. But would you call, would you apply that same thing?
 acumen if it's allowed it would you use that same phrase if it's allowed if it's in a downtown area where it's actually allowed I mean would you still call that a residential short-term rental
 Well, you have to look at each zoning district. And of course, the current proposal to you would allow short-term rentals of both types as of right, basically, since they're giving away conditional use permits in all residential areas. And that's what has me more concerned. Because I think this other type of short-term rental, which has been referred to as type two...
 is a very different animal and much more likely to cause problems in residential areas. And that's why I think that we should denote it one way or the other as a business and make it part of limited business and general business so that in order to operate one in a residential area, they would have to obtain a conditional use permit to allow limited business in that particular district.
 But that's why I think that we should focus on the one, I think, that one type of short-term rental that would probably cause the most trouble for our neighborhoods, and that's the type that have the large density.
 I think Mary had something she was thinking about. I was just gonna say, the way that the ordinance is written now, if you have a type two in a residential neighborhood, you have to get a conditional use permit. So that's not really, I don't really see that as a big change. I just wanted to clarify that. And I do think that the,
 you know, residential short-term rentals, whether or not they're, you know, a type one or type two, they're still technically both,
 both operating commercially. And so I think we have to think about that when we think about allowing type ones to be completely regulated as any long-term rental would be regulated because they still essentially are operating a business. And unfortunately or fortunately, however you want to look at it, there are going to be different needs for enforcement and different needs for regulation associated with that. So I did just want to mention that.
 Well, with your proposal tonight, though, where you're going to give away conditional use permits to everyone, then you can say they must require a conditional use permit, but you're giving them to them.
 Well, no, we're not necessarily giving them to them. There's a six month grace period where you can come into compliance and be exempt from that process. But after the six month grace period, you're required to get a conditional use permit if you're a type two, except in a hotel motel district. So, you know, I we're not necessarily.
 negating that you definitely still have to do that we're just giving people the opportunity to go ahead in that grace period and and get into compliance without having to go through the conditional use permit process right so they're given conditional use permits for the first six months that anybody applies but after that then people would actually have to go through the process to get a conditional use permit I think that's right that's that's correct
 Barry, I have another question about your current proposal tonight. So is this true? If I live in my house for one day and I get that homestead exemption tax or whatever, I am a type one, even though I'm gone 364 days of the year and I rent my house out, I'm still going to be a type one. Is that correct the way the current definition is drafted? So-
 Technically, yes. I mean, I would think that considering that the amount of time that someone actually lives in their property is needed. I mean, I just feel like this is a gaping hole. I mean, maybe it's not nine months, maybe it's seven months, maybe it's 10 months, but...
 It surely needs to have some kind of time requirement in there to really be considered a residential property. Because if they're gone all that time, they're really more like a type two and there's no oversight and there's, you know, there's lots of problems. So I think that really needs to be discussed and considered. Thank you.
 Sure. And like I said, it is, that is something that's included in a lot of the research that I did. Often it was either 180 days or six months. I saw that a lot of places that that was required. And, you know, obviously there's some nuance with enforcement, but if you were found to be out of compliance, then that is technically a code violation. So I do think that's something to think about. Any other questions from the council?
 Yeah, so I noticed on see the additional updated rental regulations document the last thing PDF that was added to the packet. See under the section.
 about there's a saying that it does define bedrooms because just for a safety standpoint, and maybe this is a Jonathan question, just wanna make sure that rooms without windows are not considered a bedroom, things like that. Or Mary, could you talk to that a little bit about how the inspection would make sure to cap and bring safety to the places?
 Sure, yeah, I can tell you what I know, and Jonathan, feel free to add anything. But, I mean, essentially every unit would be required to have a life safety inspection. When that life safety inspector goes out, he's going to look at ingress, egress. He's going to make sure that each bedroom has a window, has a qualified ingress, egress, that smoke detectors are working, and things like that to make sure that the property is safe for guests.
 So there's definitely kind of a stopgap there when it comes to, you know, qualifying a laundry room as a bedroom. Obviously, that would not be allowed within our life safety inspection. So they would define how many bedrooms were in the unit and that it was safe to operate. I don't know if you can, Jonathan, did you want to add anything to that?
 No, I think you've captured it. Most of our definitions are wrapped up in our adopted building codes. Okay, so it's just what goes with our adopted code. Okay, awesome. Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you. Okay, what other questions do we have in the council? Okay, now we've got some folks that I think wants to have some public comment tonight. Does the council want to hear the public comment and then table or table and then?
 what do y'all want to do i want to hear the public comment for sure at some point okay absolutely all right all right who would like to address this um everybody keep in mind that you have one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two
 minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any city council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you um so who would like to address this first sue madison okay go ahead am i unmuted
 Yes. Okay, good. I'm recognizing that there are three types because I mentioned that at both Ordinance Review Committee meetings. I would like to ask that you please...
 make a distinction between a rental where the owner is present when the occupants are there and when the owner is not present because I think that is a huge issue. And that's part of the reason that I like the type one type that I believe Ms. Turk was referring to where the owner is present. I think you'll have less behavior problems and better service throughout the area. I'm concerned about enforcement falling to staff
 when most of these rentals happen on a weekend and staff is not available on the weekend. So that needs to be addressed. I'm glad that everybody is finally concerned about the current state of the ordinance proposal favoring the lawbreakers. I mean, I think it's wrong when people have been breaking the law, knowing they're breaking the law, and we're going to give them favorable treatment.
 Many residents in Fayetteville don't realize that our ordinances are enforced only by complaints and may not know how to file a complaint. And I think that's been a problem for some people, including a lady who moved from her home of 32 years because of a short-term rental across the street that was full of a lot of obnoxious gifts.
 I'm glad to see that we're going to get inspections done. Let me point out that we are in the midst of a pandemic, and a lot of our citizens are concerned with getting their children educated at home, working from home, keeping their jobs, and it's hard for them to be truly focused on these kind of issues at our city. This is a really big change that could happen in our city, and it deserves a lot of public input.
 Especially I want to ask you to address the parking and I know that has been dismissed. But if you have a five bedroom house with two per bedroom plus two, that's 12. Think about how many cars could be on the street because only four are allowed in the street or allowed on the property rather. I think I have I'm trying to stay with three minutes, but I would encourage you to table this and some more. Thank you.
 okay who else would like to address this okay logan humphrey go ahead hi can you guys hear me yes okay great thank you very much my name is logan humphrey and i'm with the arkansas short-term rental alliance i um we are here to advocate for responsible renting from landlords and property managers
 along with fair and reasonable policy. I want to thank you guys very, very much for all of the work you've done for this ordinance. I think that the ordinance is really shaping up well. It's addressing issues. A lot of the questions that people have asked me are being addressed publicly, like for instance, parking, and then also issues like how it's going to be enforced,
 I do think that a lot more time is needed bringing up a completely new ordinance, you know, as a possibility. It's something that, you know, may need to be considered behind the scenes, and I'm happy to help contribute for that. I did want to ask Kit one question. I maybe missed this earlier.
 What exactly is defined as a micro hotel in your language? I was trying to get clear on that, and I couldn't really understand it. Now, Logan, and we'll give you back some time here, but keep in mind, when you ask questions during your five-minute period, you're using up your five minutes. And if it takes a while to answer your question, then you could run out of time. So I want you to understand that because go ahead, Kip.
 Just briefly, you know. I'll try to be a little bit more clear here. Basically, you're familiar with the current ordinance. A micro hotel would be basically a type 2 short-term rental, and it would be obviously felt to be a commercial establishment, and it would be allowed within use unit 12A, which is limited business.
 And so that's allowed in some many districts as of right. But in residential districts, it was it's only allowed with a conditional use to have limited business allowed in there. So that's what it would be. It would basically be a short term rental.
 The only difference between that and what the staff has proposed is that within residential areas, single-family residential areas, there is a limited size on the buildings in limited business, which is 3,000 square feet. In other locations for general business, it would be 8,000 square feet. So those would be the only additional limits that my proposal would place on.
 Okay, thank you for that. So obviously this needs fleshed out, but I do think that, you know, having something like this could be problematic. Obviously the term micro hotel is
 is a little problematic, micro-conducing small of size, and then hotels being rental by the rooms. While a majority of hotel, and you can just see this with the data, majority of short-term rentals are whole home rentals, meaning that they're entire residences.
 not rentals by the room. And then while you do advertise, you know, four bedrooms, five bedrooms, et cetera, you do not rent the room itself. And so I think that this is something that needs to be qualified while you can rent a room on Airbnb itself,
 Um, whole home hosting is what they call it or whole home renting is, you know, I don't remember the numbers, but I know it was well over 90%. Uh, in the town of Fayetteville, uh, of homes that are available for rental. And so I think that that might be problematic, but, you know, obviously that was a potential proposal that was brought up, but I do think that taking into consideration.
 you know, the constitutionality of different effects that any regulations like this may have. And then obviously a sunset clause being added into it is a great addition. So I really wanted to just yield my time and thank you guys for all the work you've been putting into this and thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Karen McAllister. Okay, go ahead. Hi, this is Max McAllister, Karen McAllister's husband.
 I will ask a question and yield the rest of the time. What is the, we talked about the three-hour response and the individual who has the responsibility for
 for maybe even just spontaneously requesting somebody show up, I guess, if there's an issue within that three hours. Is there some sort of equivalent to that for long-term rentals? How are long-term rental issues taken care of? How does that compare? Jonathan, do you have that one?
 I could try to respond to that. I'm not entirely sure I understand exactly the residents question. I apologize. I do know that the city did recently adopt a landlord registry, I think, to address some of these concerns.
 And that was intended to afford renters in particular, the opportunity to be able to contact landlords as well as emergency services. Those who've lived in Arkansas for a while, you know that the tenant rights are very limited and that was meant to help protect tenants in that regard. I don't know, does that get to what you're asking about, sir?
 So what about this would be apparently this is a neighbor complaint, a neighborhood complaint. How would that be addressed in the same vein? Same things can happen short or long term. How is that addressed? Is there is there a method that they take care of it for long term rentals? I understand. Thank you. I apologize. I apologize.
 Yes, it is a very similar process. We do contact the property owner or the owner of record with Washington County when it's a long-term rental. It does follow a very similar process to the one I outlined earlier. If you are not on, it's basically complaints-based. Staff investigates it. If there is a violation, we issue a letter that requires the property owner to respond within a certain time period.
 If they respond, we work with them to address the issue, whether it's parking in the yard, trash under a carport, whatever it may be. If they don't respond, it's possible that they can be forwarded to the prosecuting attorney for them to enforce that ordinance. I think one big distinction between short-term rentals and long-term rentals is, short-term rentals, it's difficult to ascertain that they are short-term rentals and thus outside existing code.
 And so that's part of where the requirement for business licensing or conditional use permit approval comes in to establish that they are operating as a short-term rental. Sorry, you faded out right at the point that you said to ascertain something.
 to ascertain whether they're operating as a short-term rental. That's been a consistent enforcement challenge for staff since I've been with the city anyways, is many of these operate over the weekend. And while we can lean on police reports for whether there was a loud party or cars parking in the yard,
 we can contact the property owner, but it's very difficult to prove whether they're operating as a short-term rental or as a long-term rental, which have different enforcement paths or potentially prosecution paths if the property owner doesn't come into compliance with the code. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Our comments are...
 Mayor, I have a comment. I wanted to first acknowledge just how much work has gone into this and time. It seems like it's pretty darn close to me, although it also seems like there have been some fair points made tonight that maybe there's something else that needs to be added to it. But before talking about that, I did want to take an opportunity to answer one of the questions that was posed to us. Kit, I heard you
 prompt us as city council members, maybe give some direction tonight about what version of the ordinance that we wanted to proceed with. I think that's a really wise question to ask and for us to answer. I'm going to take just a second to do that.
 I did get a chance to read the ordinance. I tried to read it as, or the memo. I tried to read the memos as carefully as I could. And I recall that we had discussed this in not quite as much detail, but had still discussed it at the ordinance review committee. And even in light of the memo and a little bit more detail, I find myself still feeling compelled to proceed with the version of the ordinance that's been developed by planning staff.
 And that's just because it feels a little bit more comprehensive in the things that it's addressing. I think that we took some parts of what we saw the ordinance review committee as the alternate and were successful in getting those into the version that we were already working on. But it seems like there's still some concern in particular around the occupancy and
 For me, I think I'm eager to have a conversation about occupancy limits in general in the city and what the housemate ban we have on the books actually does for us. But I'm also eager maybe to take that up as a separate discussion and not to make this particular ordinance about the occupancy limits. But if that's where we need to go, I would suggest the best way towards consistency is to...
 it's to get rid of the housemate ban and to treat those nuisances as nuisances with our noise ordinance maybe needing some revisions or our parking ordinance um for front yard parking maybe needs needing some some revisions or even or even um the way trash is stored
 It seems like most of the time it's not really occupancy per se, but it's these other things that may arise from over-occupancy. And I think the word I heard tonight was over-occupancy news. And that's a phrase I think that we can talk about and we can craft ordinances about.
 I think if we're going to talk a lot about occupancy, we really need to ask our planning staff, who's done such a good job with research for short-term rentals, to do the same level of research for how other cities address occupancy because it seems, based on my cursory research, that there's the old way of doing it, which is the way we do it, and it has some discriminatory impacts that weren't intended. And then there's a new way of doing it, which does it with nuisance regulations and with carefully defined use units.
 But all that being neither here nor there, what I think on this ordinance, I think what's really important is that we establish on the record that there are some distinctions, some really clear distinctions between long-term rentals and short-term rentals with respect to how occupancy might be enforced or how the nuisances associated with occupancy might be enforced. And we've already talked today about how
 We've got an inspection and an insurance requirement, and those requirements are different for long-term rentals than they are for short-term rentals under the ordinances proposed. We also have a difference in what we might call the speed or the velocity of reconciliation, meaning we're requiring a three-hour response time for short-term rental owner-operators, and we're also establishing...
 It's not super defined yet because that would be an administrative process, but we're establishing and discussing a need and an approach to assertive enforcement by staff. And so I would expect if there's a nuisance associated with over occupancy of a relative to short term rental.
 that it can be resolved a lot more quickly than what we might see with a long-term rental when we have some problem tenants. Just by nature of the lease and how long the lease is and the fact that evicting a short-term tenant is a much easier task than evicting a long-term tenant. So I think there are really clear differences all across the board, both in terms of the regulation, in terms of how we're enforcing things, and in terms of what we're requiring people to do.
 I did want, so I hope to put a punchline on that. I hope that there's consensus tonight to proceed with the version that the staff has developed.
 Now about that version, I think it's pretty fair what has been raised about maybe needing to define type one rentals with an occupancy requirement for the owner. I'm pretty hesitant to do that just kind of based on our feelings though, so I hope that we might see what our role model cities have done and use that as a benchmark.
 But all that's to say, I'm really hopeful we can get some of this just figured out.
 and get this passed at the next meeting. It just seems so close to the end. Public comment has really become consolidated. We're not hearing a whole lot of new things. It seems like we're getting to the point where we've got a comprehensive ordinance that we can implement and come back and revise at the sunset whenever we have some data that tells us what we might need to revise. Those are my thoughts, thank you.
 Who else? I'm really, you know, I agree with Matthew on, you know, I feel like we're really close on this issue. And this, you know, a lot of time and effort from different, you know, planning and, you know, the long range planner, Mary McGettrick, a lot of time and effort have gone into this. And it didn't just, you know, it didn't just start overnight, but I kind of think that this is a move to get in front of
 what could happen and what has happened in other cities that if we just keep delaying, you know, I'm afraid we need something on the books as quick as possible is what I'm thinking, because other cities have had some real big problems trying to go back in and beef up their short-term rentals, uh, ordinance, you know, when they didn't have a certain level of, of, um,
 ordinance on the books and they tried to create it after the fact and that's when you get sued. You know, so I'm hoping that we can come up with some sort of resolution here that will work for everyone on this. Thank you. Okay, what else? Well, I...
 Go ahead. Sorry, Mayor. No, no, no, no. Go ahead. I really think Kit's proposal is worth consideration and deep thought. I mean, for me, I would really like to have a very clear distinction that a type 2 is a business operation, that it is defined as a limited business operation.
 And so I am going to fight to the end about those occupancy limits that we have because I think they've been very, very effective. They've done what we've needed them to do. And I really don't want to pass any kind of regulation that may possibly put those in jeopardy.
 And, you know, my neighborhood was greatly affected, even though I didn't live here at the time, but I've heard a lot of stories about the parking issues, the over-occupancy, and I think it's better handled and has been successfully handled with the three unrelated occupants. That's worked out actually very well. So I think a very clear distinction between a type 2...
 And what we have are long-term rentals is clearly needed. And I don't think we have it sufficiently. So I personally would like to see more discussion about KIT's proposal. Maybe there's a medium between the two that are out there right now. And this is such a big issue and it is so complex. We don't need to rush it. We need to get it right.
 even though we have that sunset limit of 20 months, we still need to get it right when we roll it out. And I am not feeling that the wave of short-term rentals is upon us and about it to overtake us right now. So I think giving it a couple more council meetings or however much longer is needed is the smart move. So that's my perspective. I also...
 would not want to see us remove the occupancy restrictions that we have right now. Anyone that was around for all of that discussion knows that before that was imposed compared to now, there has been a vast improvement. And I know this is especially true like in the Markham Hill neighborhood area and also here in Wilson Park.
 Also in the other subdivisions, as a matter of fact, there was so much trouble with over occupancy, so much trouble with parking. And now at least we have a tool to go and investigate to be sure that the integrity of our heritage neighborhoods, as well as subdivisions is protected as a neighborhood. So I, the occupancy is,
 I don't want to see us change what we have in place. I also am concerned about parking. I think there has to be controls on parking. That's certainly important also in a neighborhood. So that's what I'm thinking right now. I think that what we got from Kit today, on first look, that has a real important point of view that has to be considered.
 Again, we haven't had it long enough, but in the current proposal, it is complicated. And I think that it will be this game of, well, this is how I really live here. Or not, you know, that's not really what's going on because the definitions are in conflict with what, like the occupancy restrictions that we have in general residence. So, yeah.
 I first of all, I commend everyone that's worked on this. This has not been easy. And I'm in no way complaining about that. I appreciate it because we've got a great deal of information and a lot of information was received from the public. The staff certainly worked hard to get that into our hands. But I don't think that this is anywhere near perfect. Is anything ever perfect? I don't know.
 I'm glad we're holding on, holding it right now by tabling it. And I guess there's just going to be some more discussion. I hope that we hear from people in neighborhoods that have an impact by short-term rentals, mostly who I've heard from are owners of short-term rentals.
 which also I think is a very valuable tool to have in your city. You know, we've talked about it before. Sometimes if you have a short-term rental, it allows you to stay in your home because you're generating a little more cash in space that you're not using anyway. I really, I think that is important. Well, there were several other things similar to that I was going to say, but I can go on.
 That's my main points and what I'll be thinking about. Anybody else? So I assume we're going to table this for a certain period of time. And Mayor, I think Mary needs clearer direction about what she actually needs to be working on between now and the next time because we have two versions of an ordinance. I know you do. I just want to create an interesting discussion. Well, yes. May I?
 Clarify. Yeah, I mean, I think that we don't necessarily have two versions of an ordinance. We have an ordinance and a memo with
 you know, guiding language. And so I think I would definitely need some direction as to what your expectations would be from staff when we're, if it is tabled, you know, you want us to go back and look at it, what you'd like us to focus on and what your expectations are when we represent the ordinance. What I've heard, I'm sorry, go ahead, Nick.
 I might attempt to do that. I'll make a motion to table this ordinance until the next meeting and to direct staff to amend the ordinance with a owner occupancy requirement limited in time for type 1 rentals as suggested by another council member. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks.
 Is there anything else we can bring? I want to be sure I've got everything because we've got two weeks to put this together if it passes. I'd like to amend the motion if I may to add a couple more items in there. Would that be okay with the motioner?
 It's okay for you to put forward some ideas, but I'd like to hear them first, of course, before we might need to call a vote on your amendment. Absolutely. The other one that I would really like to suggest is that exploration of a business type, such as the limited business type.
 So, again, that we could try and find a more well-defined distinction between the Type 2 short-term rental and these, quote, microhotels. So that would be one. And then an additional one would be to look at the Type 3.
 the one where it's within 600 feet of the primary residence of the owner. Because as I've expressed several times before, I believe that that is really more analogous to a type one because they're right there on the scene. They have control over everything. And they're not an out-of-town owner like a type two is. So those are the two items, Matthew, if you would consider. Okay.
 Thank you. We did discuss both of those at the Ordinance Review Committee meeting, if I recall. And I'll give you my feedback as a motioner, but perhaps there's another to second.
 It's my view that the ordinance is drafted by planning staff already treats type two short-term rentals much like an income producing business. I think that is in so many ways, the fundamental difference between type one and type two. So I feel like the ordinance we have already has a pretty clear distinction from properties that are operating as an income. And that for me,
 in my philosophy of how this should be regulated is also relevant to the suggestion about type threes that's made denied in prior meetings. To me, those are still income producing properties and that's the intention. And I feel that there aren't very many of them in any case, but that they should be regulated as type twos. Okay, well, we can finish with your motion and then I'll make another one.
 Okay, I think the motion that we have before us is to table it, correct? And then I suppose you can add... Matthew's motion was to table this ordinance for two weeks and ask staff to come back with a recommendation on the specific with the owner occupancy requirement that Teresa brought up earlier. That was the specific to do for Mary so far. Well, that's what I'm saying, but Teresa also brought us some other stuff.
 You should make another motion if we decide how long we're going to table it. I'm just trying to get us to table something for a while. So we have two weeks tabling. Is that correct, Matthew? Yes, yes, Mayor, that's correct. And if I may, I think the parliamentaryly correct procedure would be for Teresa to put forward her ideas as a motion to amend the motion to table and advise staff, since if the motion to table passes, this item will then be removed from the agenda tonight.
 Okay, I'll have to leave that with Paul and Terran, which is the city turn. Well, yeah, it's kind of a strange and conflicting motions to table, both to the same time, but with different suggestions about what staff should do. Certainly, I think you're right, Matthew, parliamentary style, if you want to change a motion that's on the table, then you move to amend that.
 If the motioner accepts that, it can be a friendly amendment and you don't need to vote on it. But since Massey did not accept that as a friendly amendment, then your motion to amend his motion would have to get a second to be voted on before his motion to take. So it would be an amendment on the amendment, so to speak. Amendment to the amendment.
 We are either voting on all of these things together and in agreement of all of these things that have been mentioned or we're not in agreement of any of them, correct? The motion before us, which has been seconded, is to table and to ask staff for an amendment pursuant to an owner occupancy requirement for type 1.
 And that's a motion that Councilmember Turk made has not been seconded yet to that. So unless someone seconds her motion, then it dies for lack of a second. I would say that... I lost track of that, so... Okay. Well, so we'll have to vote on it. Yeah.
 And so I want to get my head straight on this. So we're going to table it for two weeks, and we're going to add pieces to what's already there? What are we doing? Well, I think everybody's in agreement to table it. But the conditions on the tabling are different. And since Matthew went first and got his seconded, and then the motion to table with slightly different or additional conditions, I should say,
 by Councilmember Turck has now been seconded, then we would vote on her motion to amend first and see if he will amend actually Matthew Petty's motion to table. It's in reality, I think that probably staff has heard what Matthew has said. I have too. There are still some issues out there.
 And but I think that probably, well, I'll just let the city council decide if they want to amend his motion with motion that council member took. Right. So are we going to take a vote now? Just to clarify, I had two items to amend. The one was to consider a third type of of short term rental, a type three type.
 And the second one was to explore ways to further define a distinction between the Type 2 and the Type 1, and with identifying the Type 2 more distinctly as a business. So those were the two items that I'm moving to ask that staff include in their review.
 So that would add to the conditions that Matthew has suggested for his. And so the first vote would be on Council Member Turk's motion. Okay. So, Teresa, you want to add another type, a type three, and go through the other one again because I want to get this in my head.
 I would like to add a type three, yes. And then the second issue would be similar to what Kit has proposed, but investigating. I would like to find staff to investigate a more clear distinction between a type one and a type two, so that type twos are very much considered businesses.
 and that there will be no concern about equal protection under the law if we have different regulations for a type 2 versus our residential areas where we have the limit of three unrelated people in occupancy. So yes, I hope that's clarifying enough. Thank you.
 I want to just get it in my head because staff is going to be working on this, and I've got to make sure that we can pull this all together in two weeks if this passes. So you want us to type three? You want us to investigate the difference between type one and type two? Is that correct? That's correct with the goal being that type two is clearly a business, clearly, clearly a business and maybe potentially zoned differently. Okay.
 Okay. Well, I'm going to ask my staff question here. If this does pass, Mary, is that doable for you all? I would say that
 Two weeks to investigate a more clear distinction between the type one and type two. That's a little general and I think would take some additional research and crafting. I do think that the type three and the owner occupancy are easily doable. I think we can move through those.
 I do think that it may take more time to get right, especially with with pure city research, you know, making sure that we can can provide that clear distinction and provide language that is, you know, shown to be effective in other places. I think that may take some time. Do you have any idea how much time?
 I would say... I'm putting you on the spot because I want to make sure that this is all doable within a certain time frame with everybody working all hours of the night and day to make this work. Absolutely. I would say if we're tabling date specific, then it would, instead of being tabled to the next meeting, maybe tabled to the meeting after that. So you need a month. Yes, sir. Okay. And then that would... All right. Okay. Okay.
 So is there any discussion on that from the council? I just want to be sure that I've got my  that we can get everything done. Okay. I believe we have a motion on the table then from Teresa Tarrant to add these items of the  add another type and investigate the difference between type 1, type 2, and look at type 2 if it is a business, correct? Except the motion is for two weeks and Mary asked for a month. I know she did.
 but I got two motions by two elected officials and nobody seems to be changing their mind. I would suggest if the new motion passes that the timing should be four weeks but if it doesn't it can remain two weeks as Mary advised us. Okay good enough thank you Matthew. I would endorse that too. Okay okay all right let's vote on uh Teresa's motion first okay any other comments on that? Chair would you please call the roll. Scroggins? No.
 Bunch? No. Kirk? Yes. Kurtzberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Mayor, the vote is four to four. Do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. Then on that motion to amend, Council Member Petty's motion to table has failed. Terps. I'm sorry. Okay.
 No, to amend Matthew Petty's motion. Now we're back to Matthew Petty's tabling for two weeks and leaving it at the original. Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. That passed five to three. Okay. All right.
 So in two weeks it is. And, of course, I suppose motions can be made at the council meeting in two weeks as well. Correct? Oh, yes. Yes. It's already on the third and final reading, but it can be taken. Yes. Okay. Let's move on to number two. An ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 20-028 located east of West Michael Cole Drive.
 and south of West Wellington Drive for approximately five acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RMF 18, residential multifamily 18 units per acre. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final. Actually before we do that, Mayor, the applicant has requested to change the zoning
 and has provided, I think, more new exhibits. And I have an ordinance that would, in fact, do what the applicant suggests or wants and is requested. And so we've sent that out to the city council. It's basically doing, I think, what the planning department has suggested. And Jonathan, correct me if I'm wrong on that.
 But if that is correct, then it might make sense to amend the orders before we go to the third and final meeting. Okay. So, Jonathan, is this the kind of rezoning that the planning department is now recommending approval of? That is correct. Staff's recommendation is to approve the revised request. So it's up to the council about whether you want to rezone it to what the applicant has requested and the staff has recommended approval of.
 Or not. It's up to you. We did send this ordinance out. The basic changes is now the request has been changed to residential intermediate urban for most of it and then a smaller section for neighborhood services limited. Mayor, I move that we amend the application before us to the applicant's new request and staff's recommendation. Okay. Do we have a second? Second. Second.
 I have a motion and a second. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Is Jonathan you want to? Mayor if you'd like I do have a presentation. I know this. Let's do the presentation before we vote on the amendment. Certainly. Go ahead. As a reminder this property is located on West Weddington at the southeast corner of Michael Cole Drive and Weddington Drive.
 As a bit of perspective, again, it is about two and a half miles west of Interstate 49, quite a bit closer to Double Springs Road than it is to the interstate.
 As a bit of a summary of what was kind of just discussed, the previous request was to rezone the entirety of the property from its RA, residential agricultural zoning, to RMF 18, residential multifamily, 18 units per acre. Staff recommended denial of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, voting 7-1 to do so.
 There was quite a bit of public comment in the lead up to that meeting, mostly in the form of a petition that many, many neighbors did submit in opposition to that particular request. And if you recall the petition or saw it in the packet, it was also written more generally in opposition to some of the impacts that would likely occur with any development on this site. The applicant opted to appeal the request to council. As you all may recall, the first few readings the applicant had shared that they were
 entertaining alternatives. We did get that about a week and a half ago and evaluated it and got it to the council
 And as Mr. Williams noted, the request is now to rezone from RA to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited, and RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. The breakdown of what that looks like is the western corner of the property at the corner of Michael Cole and Weddington. About a half acre of land would be rezoned to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited, allowing for some small scale non-residential
 and allowances or developments in addition to one two three and four family dwellings the balance of the property representing about five and a half acres would be rezoned to riu residential intermediate urban a lot of the issues are pretty much the same as they were for the last item although staff feels that the revised request addresses a lot of those concerns the initial request was purely residential with no
 uh, no way of creating that complete neighborhood. Uh,
 goal that the city strives for in city plan, the potential to have services or retail near residents to allow people to, to not have to get their vehicles to go places. This request affords that allows that at the corner of Michael Cole and Weddington drive, I think it's the issue of traffic and congestion. Those of you who've been in this part of Weddington know there's not a lot of services. So the main means of getting about is of course by vehicle and
 Similarly, staff feels that the revised request addresses concerns about a lot of the land use and development compatibility concerns we initially had. While it is indisputable that a lot of the land in this immediate area is still agricultural in use and zoning requirements,
 There is a fair amount of residential development, a mixture of single and two family dwellings. And whereas the RMF 18 zoning district allows large residential multifamily buildings up to five stories, the RRU zoning district in particular breaks that down, allowing the comparable height limitation of three stories to what's allowed on nearby properties.
 Again, just to reprise on that, we have not received public comments on this request, but this is also a fairly new request comparatively to what went to the Planning Commission. There was a petition received by staff in opposition to development on this property.
 That said, again, staff recommends approval. There was not a planning commission recommendation on this particular request. And of course it is at the council's discretion, but given the recent submittal of it, of course it would be reasonable to table or continue the item to afford the public to know that there has been a change made. That said, I do have Justin Jorgensen here with the applicants team, and I'm happy to stand for any questions the council may have, thank you.
 Okay. What questions do you have for the staff? And I guess Mr. Jorgensen might as well give his presentation. You've got 10 minutes, Mr. Jorgensen. Are you there? I am here. Can you guys hear me? Okay. Go ahead.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Thank you for your time. Appreciate everyone's patience on this. Sorry for any delays, but yes, working with staff, we have decided to change our request, as Mr. Kurth mentioned, and we appreciate them working with us and be glad to answer any questions that anyone might have. Okay. All right. We've heard the presentation. We have an amendment for you. We have a motion and a second. Any conversation on any of that?
 All right, let's vote on the amendment first. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. With your permission, Mayor, I'll now read the amended amendments. Sure, absolutely. Thank you.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-028, located east of West Michael Cole Drive and West Weddington Drive, for parking five acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A.
 and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban, and NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs out hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1, and this is on its third and final reading.
 Well, have we gone to the third reading yet? This is it. Okay, you're absolutely right. Okay. Is there any questions from the council on the staff or the applicant? I guess my question is if we now changed it, it's not really an appeal anymore. It's a new request, and we just circumvented the planning commission.
 Well, I don't know what to tell you about that. Well, you know, it's really up to the city council to make a final decision on that one way or the other. You have the right to approve it if you want to. You also have the right to send it back to the planning commission if that's what you choose to do. Those are a couple of your different options. Or you have a right to deny it. So you have three options, approve, deny, or send it back to the planning commission. I guess there's a fourth option. You could table it and see if there's going to be any further comments. So there you have four options.
 And you said this is just like it came to us, so the appeal doesn't take more votes to approve than what have prior? That's correct. It always takes five votes to approve either a recommended ordinance or a ordinance that has been appealed from the Planning Commission. Okay. I guess the question now is for the applicant. What are they planning on doing there? Is the applicant there?
 I'm here. I'm sorry you broke up Mr. Scroggins. What was the question? What is our plan to do there? Was that what it was? Yes. I mean, as far as the plan there, you know, they're looking at doing some townhomes right now. But of course, this is a rezoning and, you know, that's all there is to it. And they even had a little bit of a presentation that they thought about giving tonight. But given the fact that that's one use under...
 This umbrella on the rezoning, we didn't feel like it was ideal, but the plan is, could be townhomes at this point. And I really agree with the applicant that, in fact, it's the use units that the city council should be looking at and not any kind of proposed project because this is just a rezoning.
 You know, too many times people have brought elevations and ideas here and we've rezoned it. They didn't come to fruition. And then the rezoning, of course, is still with the property. So I always try to look at the worst case scenario under the possibilities. Okay. Well, I think Planning Commission got this right in the first place. This is too much, too far out. Thank you.
 Right. There was, I'm reading the discussion notes in the packet from planning commission and they did, Commissioner Brown, let's see, where does it say? Commissioner Brown in favor of the item brought forth consideration for the property proximity to a tier three center and supported the recommendation for RIU and NSL.
 rather than the RMF 18. And so there was that discussion and there was some support for this direction, but they weren't really considering that at the time. It just was a recommendation. So I feel like it's a kind of a big job for us to try to have that discussion without getting the planning commission look at it. So, and I feel so much better when they can have it, look at it, but I don't know.
 open to what everyone's thinking. You know, we've done this a few times before where we've had an amendment or a change in the rezoning at the very end. And I do feel that we've circumvented the planning commission. I would suggest that we send it back to them because this is new. They didn't get to see this the first time around and get their insight and recommendation. I would be in favor of that as well.
 Seeing where the consensus is, I'd like to amend the motion that's on the floor that Councilmember Scroggins seconded to, in addition to amending to the new requested zoning designations, to also send this back to the Planning Commission immediately. It's actually, the amendment was passed, so it has been amended, but you can make a motion to send the amended ordinance back to the Planning Commission. I would second that if Teddy makes it. So moved.
 Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to send this back to the Planning Commission. I would be probably remiss if I didn't take some public comment on this, though. So is there anyone from the public that would like to address us on this?
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. You have broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us?
 Okay, we don't have anybody from the public. We have a motion and a second to send this back to Planning Commission. Is there any other discussion on that? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 all right thank you all let's go on to number three the northern history zone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-024 located at 916 north sang avenue for approximately 0.70 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsfa residential single family seven units breakers subject to a bill of assurance this was left on the first reading i will entertain a motion to go to the second reading
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Ert? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described and regional petition rzn 20-024 located at 916 north sang avenue for approximately seven tenths of an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf7 residential single family seven units per acre subject to a bill of assurance okay
 Jonathan, you have anything for us on this? Anything new? Just very briefly, Mayor. I don't have any updates on the applicant's request, but for those council members that were not able to attend the tour, I did want to briefly summarize some of the things that I heard. Obviously, I was not able to talk to everybody. There were quite a few neighbors there that had an interest in the item. One of the biggest and most repeated concerns I heard is whether this would represent a precedent item.
 If this property were to be rezoned, does that represent some sort of precedence that the commission and council would support other rezonings in the property and fear that this could eventually deteriorate the character of what many of those residents value in the area. Another item which the council heard previously was tree removal.
 there are a few mature trees along saying very large trees and many residents were concerned that they would be removed as a part of this project the applicant who is here tonight can speak to it more did advise that he would like to keep them drainage was another issue that was noted specifically on aura there is open ditch on both sides of the street and from my understanding of what i've been able to hear from uh institutional knowledge of other staff
 as that there have been instances where people have made improper improvements in that drainage ditch that, despite being corrected later on, have caused some significant flooding to properties at the intersection of Ora and Sang, specifically on the northwest corner. Another concern was about building height.
 Most of the properties in this area are developed single story, but RSF4 does allow three stories and that is identical to RSF7, so both districts do allow three story building heights.
 And the last one, which is a bit unusual of a question, but there was a former city council member there. So you can always assume a high level of being informed when you're speaking to council members was why this request is not going to the board of adjustment as opposed to the rezoning action, which is being requested. And.
 My response to this, and in case the council is curious, is that the Board of Adjustment represents one of the higher bars for having an approval granted. Their purview is to uphold the integrity of the city zoning code and to grant variances of that zoning code. The Board of Adjustment, one of their priorities.
 their most primary finding is that any variance is granted will keep with the spirit and intent of the code and also that the variance requested is the result of a hardship that is unique to that property and prevents its use. So sometimes at the Board of Adjustment, the first question they ask is, did somebody try to rezone a property first? Sometimes the answer is yes, sometimes it's no.
 but it would be a very unusual way to grant development entitlement to a property that is already developable, if that makes sense. For example, this property has a house on it, so it would be difficult to make the argument to the Board of Adjustment that you wanted three houses and that was some manner of hardship. Staff and the Board have generally considered that a self-imposed hardship to want to increase your development entitlement through use of the Board of Adjustment for variances.
 So just a little background to that. I'm happy to answer questions on that one because that is an unusual question, but something that comes up in Fayetteville and in other municipalities with some regularity. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. And Mr. Posi is available as the applicant on this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yes. Yes, council. Can you hear me just fine? Yes. Go ahead.
 Good evening all. Yes, so the primary idea behind rezoning this property into RSF 7 is to have three homes with front entrances facing Seng with a driveway off of Borough.
 I was there while the city council members came through and I spoke with all the neighbors and gave them full disclosure of everything that I know to this point, which is three two story homes. One of them did request that we do not do three story. The investor has no intention of doing three story they asked if we would be willing to do anything to assure that I said absolutely if that's the, if that's you know something that's holding this back we have no problem doing that.
 The idea behind facing all the homes towards Sang is being able to use that 0 to 25 foot built-to zone. We can push them way back, have one single driveway across the back, and we get to preserve those massive pin oak trees that are up front, the maple, the pine tree, and everything. It really would lay out on the lot and bring a good picture and precedence to Sang Avenue in our opinion. Yeah.
 So I am open for any questions. Please feel free to call me back. Please feel free to ask any questions. Until then, thank you very much. Okay. What questions do we have for the Council, for the staff or the applicant? I have a question for the applicant and possibly staff. As you've heard, I mean, that area floods often. It's got, it's had long-term drainage issues that have not been solved.
 I have a full disclosure. I have a rental house that is about six houses east on Ora from this proposed rezoning. So my question is, how can we resolve those drainage issues if you're able to build the structures that you would like, Mr. Posey?
 There is a single family home there right now, which is roughly taking up about 25 to 2,800 square foot of roof space. We would barely be going over that with two single family, two story homes that would go over it. Also, in full intention, we're not going to mess with the existing ditch. I do know that one of the neighbors complained about a ditch that was covered up yesterday.
 That would be to the west of the property on aura. And we have no intention of that. We are happy to increase, you know, or to manage that ditch and make it improved as we go along. You know, we'd rather not necessarily add to it as I don't feel like we're actually burdening anything that's extra there, but we are happy to, you know, do whatever we can within our right and power and reasonable cost to help that area.
 okay thank you and for city staff because this is rsf7 are they required to do any kind of drainage improvement or mitigation it was if the project was done by administrative lot split and they were indeed single family homes no they would not it is just outside the hilltop hillside overlay district which is to the east which would normally be the only situation under which most single-family homes would be subject to our drainage manual or grading standards
 And if I may just take a super fast opportunity for a point of clarification, Mr. Posey did note that RSF 7 zoning district has a build to zone. I believe he misspoke. It is a 15 foot setback from the street. Sorry about that, Mr. Kerr. I did misspeak. But the whole point of the thing was I was trying to iterate there was to make sure that we're saving the trees along saying and keeping that the present view for the homes. What are the questions we have in council? OK, well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior, name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us first? Sarah Lewis. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, this is Sarah Lewis, and we live at 1908 West Berry Street, and we oppose the rezone, although I would like to ask if the staff can show the map that was shown earlier. And then while that's coming up,
 Mayor, would you like me to pull that up? Yeah, that would be great. And then while he's pulling that up, Isaac has something he would like to share about this rezoning. We are very worried about the trees, and I was hoping that we could point out in that map the picture that was shown that was taken in the winter. And so, but you can see the shadows, and that's...
 That really demonstrates the canopy. Thank you, Jonathan. That really demonstrates the canopy that those trees provide. And I'm really glad to hear Brock sharing about their intention to protect the trees. Although I would love to hear that that's part of the condition of the bill of assurance and that it was not included in the bill of assurance and that is concerning.
 Also,
 I think we agree that facing the houses to the saying makes sense. We agree that keeping the trees makes sense. The issue that is really making everyone upset, I guess, is this idea of rezoning. That is just a one-off zoning for this area that has triggered already
 other developers contacting us to ask if we are interested in selling our home and it's created it just and it demonstrates this that precedent that this can set and this is where this idea of
 I would, I just would have liked to have seen this go to this kind of requesting a variance for the setbacks and doing a lot split instead of going in the direction of a rezone because already the developer could build what build on this without ever asking permission, basically.
 But it's a better idea to face those homes to saying to protect the trees. So why are it's just bad policy to rezone when the simplest, most straightforward thing is just to request a variance for for the setbacks and not get everybody upset and meet everybody's needs.
 And so I feel like the, I guess we feel like people agree, but because it's a rezone, it's causing controversy and it just is unneeded. And so we oppose the rezoning. We think the neighborhood is just a fantastic little area that has great tree canopy and great diversity of home types and people from all over the world. And it's just a great little area. And
 and it's stable and we really hope that you'll take that into consideration as you make your decision and you have the ability to rework this whole thing. You don't have to move it forward as it is.
 I appreciate everyone just taking the time to come out and meet. And it was a really helpful discussion and it helped kind of, I think, to have everybody have a chance to talk about it. So thank you for being there yesterday if you were there and we appreciate the chance to speak. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussions or what do y'all want to do?
 So what's in front of us today? How many curb cuts will be allowed on site?
 I can feel that, Mr. Mayor. As the Bill of Assurance is written, it does not specify the curb cut locations. But under our access management standards, given SANG's classification at this location, the curb cuts would have to be shared between single-family homes. And if a lot was on the corner, that lot would have to access ORA.
 So if they were to build three, it would be really hard to go on saying is what you're saying? Yeah, if taking the theoretical layout that the applicant has described, three lots facing saying with three homes, the two southern lots would have to have a shared curb cut and the northern ones would have to be accessed by Aura. If the council wanted it restricted further, that would have to be.
 offered by the applicant, I guess as a part of their bill of assurance. Okay. One of the questions or comments, what do we have from the council? I have a comment, Mr. Mayor. I'm very familiar with this neighborhood, obviously because I have a rental house, but I also walk through there often. It's just kind of a very large block. That neighborhood is very stable. It's very friendly.
 That intersection in particular at Sang and Ora and also Sang and Berry is a high pedestrian intersection. There are a lot of people that walk there. There are students and people that just are very active. I think the neighborhood is great the way it is.
 There are two houses that I know of that have been remodeled in the last three years. So they haven't been expanded. They've been remodeled and updated. So it's almost like an ideal neighborhood. And the neighbors did express great concern about the start of changes to their neighborhood when they felt their neighborhood was perfect just the way it is and highly functional.
 So despite some of the concessions that the developer is saying, but they're not in a bill of assurance, so we can't hold them to that, I am probably not going to be supporting this.
 I appreciate them wanting to keep the trees, but again, there's no bill of assurance to require that. And I remain concerned about the drainage issues because that whole stretch of aura has major drainage problems. I've spent over $3,000 to deal with my drainage issue up the hill. And I know other neighbors have spent a considerable amount of money too. So I...
 So anyway, those are extent of my comments. And clearly the neighbors were very concerned about her. We wouldn't have had so many people out there yesterday. Okay, just so y'all know, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading right now. So we're not on our necessarily on our final comments, but I'm opening up floor. You all can put in the comments and questions do we have in the council?
 I've got more questions for staff. Sure, absolutely. How many houses could be built by right now? It could be through an administrative lot split on the property. Three homes and potentially accessory dwelling units associated with those homes could be built today. As the bill of assurance proposes, only three homes would be allowed on the property. Okay, so it would eliminate the AUDs?
 as the bill of assurance is written, yes. Okay. Is there any drainage difference, stormwater requirements, anything different under these two? No, not for how I understand that the developer wants to use the land though. Okay, so Fayetteville is historically known for being difficult to deal with. We're talking about having three homes versus having three homes. We're talking about having the same drainage under both cases.
 the developer could possibly not tear down some trees at the front if he gets this. I'm for this. I think that when developers come to us to ask for small changes, a lot of times it's because they actually want to do better.
 And we keep making that difficult. It would be one thing if we were changing use units. We're not. We're going from single family detached to single family detached. We're not increasing or decreasing drainage requirements. I'm aware with the bill of assurance, he still could cut down those trees. He could also cut down those trees tomorrow, no matter what. I think that would be a bad thing.
 business decision, but he could. So I think we really need to start approving these small changes and hope developers keep asking us to make small changes when they actually want to make things better instead of just going, I'm going to do whatever I can by right and not deal with it, not try to make things better. Thank you. Yeah. While I do appreciate
 the effort that the developer is making. And I do, I appreciate that they were there at the tour, especially to talk to the neighbors about,
 I think the main concern and the main thing that we were doing was to listen to the neighbors. And so and so Brock did do that and he did hear what the concerns were. So as much as they're willing to bend to that and I want to do some compromise, I feel like the neighbors are pretty much said that they.
 They really don't want those trees to go. They feel like it's a setting of precedence for rezonings and they want to send a clear message that they're not interested in that for their neighborhood. So I personally liked the idea that three houses would face the front and there would be a driveway in the back, but I don't live next door. So I'm sure there's going to be a lot of trees that will be going down because there's so many trees.
 on that property. So I don't see how you can, you know, how you can accomplish the increase of roofs without really seeing some of those trees go down. So I'll probably be opposing it as well, as much as I appreciate Brock's flexibility and willingness to try to appease the neighbors.
 I do think that we heard a unified voice of the neighborhood of the concerns. And there's certainly a neighborhood that wants their neighborhood to be protected and preserved for the time that they're there. So I will not be supporting this. Okay. I have a question for Jonathan. Okay.
 If, you know, if this were a larger piece of property and large scale development, you know, in the tree ordinance applied to it, wouldn't they go out? I mean, are the neighbors, you know, when people talk about saving trees, are they talking about saving every single tree?
 tree and sprout that is on there? Or are they talking about like just, you know, the biggest trees and the best trees? Because if this were a large scale development, wouldn't we, or a larger project, wouldn't we be looking at it and grading out which were the best trees to save?
 Yes, there's a few considerations in our tree preservation ordinance. The first is that the priority of the ordinance is to preserve trees on site. And every zoning district has a minimum amount of canopy that is required to be maintained. So RSF4s is, I'm blanking, I'm sorry, it's either 20 or 25 percent. And RSF4s.
 Let me confirm that real quick. It's 25%, I'm sorry. It's 25% and when a tree or one of our urban foresters looks at a development to evaluate what trees are being removed, they certainly do have more authority under our ordinance to protect highly significant trees.
 We've seen that in other projects where there's one in West Fayetteville where it was incorporated into a roundabout in the middle of an intersection, a particularly impressive Bodark tree. And our foresters have tried to be flexible in those developments where
 they will potentially express favor towards pushing development away from a very significant tree. I'm just pulling a number out of my head, a 44-inch oak, if it meant the loss of potentially a couple six-inch pines or something to that effect. So it does give our foresters quite a bit of authority.
 But the priority is always on-site preservation and then even within that there's certain prioritization of trees based on their their significance. Okay thank you. I'm not sure if that answered your question. I apologize. It did. You know because when I some of the pictures when we were shown earlier showed you know a larger tree and then two or three little tiny saplings next to it. Now I wasn't sure if we're talking about you know like we
 you know, do you want to, you know, when you say you want to, when a neighborhood says they want to save trees, are they talking about the more substantial trees, or are they talking about smaller trees, or how are they, how are they looking at it in terms of how it relates to
 what could be done on the property now versus what could be done with, you know, with the change that we're being asked to look at. Thank you. I can't speak. I think the other council members who attended the tour may be able to chime in, but my impression from all the residents I spoke with at the tour and the lean-ups to this meeting, the Planning Commission meeting, was it's absolutely those large mature trees at the back of the sidewalk along Seng. They're very significant in diameter.
 So, but the proposal is to, what we're being told he wants to do is to, Bill, not touch those trees correctly. Is that correct? And as little as possible and come in through Aura? That's the applicants. That's what they would like to do, yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. What else do we have? Will we suspend the rules and go to the third reading? Thank you.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Tert. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-024, located at 916 North Sang Avenue, for approximately seven tenths of an acre from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF 7, residential single family, seven units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes.
 Yes. Kerr? No. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Okay. The ordinance fails. All right. Let's move along to number four. Thank you all. An ordinance to vacate a portion of public right of way for property located east of 662 West Taylor Street.
 This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. We'll go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren? Yes. Williams? Yes. Williams? Yes. Williams? Yes. Williams? Yes. Williams? Yes.
 An ordinance vacated a portion of public right-of-way from property located east of 662 West Taylor Street. And if I'm not mistaken, Jonathan, the applicant has submitted different exhibits, and I think there's a slight change in the ordinance that was necessary. Is that correct? Yes.
 yes mr williams i believe that was submitted to your office it was in response to concern about overlapping between utility and access easements on the site i'd have to defer to either council member hertzberg to describe it or the applicant blake jorgensen
 I can go ahead and give a brief summary of what I know from the applicant and then I'll ask the applicant to kind of go more into it. I was asked that we revise the language and the conditions to add the utility easement portion to the language in item three. And Mr. Jorgensen, if you'd like to add anything, you can go ahead and speak on that. Would you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. Okay.
 Yes, sir, Mayor. Thank you. I appreciate Councilmember Hertzberg bringing this back to the Council and all the Councilmembers' time tonight.
 The I know last time is, I think, 1130 at night. We're at this point and we had some discrepancies on what was needed to be dedicated to ensure that all the existing utilities maintained the proper clearance for the right away and well, the easements and so
 we submitted an exhibit and we work with the city staff that city attorneys and uh the engineering department to make sure that the existing sewer line had adequate um easement and it's a little bit different needed a little bit more easement than normal because of the depth and so we had surveyed that and taken depths on that and uh this final exhibit um
 is an attempt to take care of three things one provide an access easement as mentioned the last time two um to ensure that we provide that adequate uh easement for the sewer line and then uh think well i guess that's it there was a those two conditions so i appreciate everyone's time tonight if y'all have any questions i'm happy to answer them so thanks a lot okay hey mr mayor the uh
 potentially amended ordinance has been provided to the City Council already and it does have the primary change is actually in condition number two I think the City Council has seen that but there needs to be a motion to amend the ordinance to what was provided to the City Council and also the exhibits that are have now been provided at the Planning Department so moved yes I think
 second to all right what discussions do we have on the amendment what do we got to see here or not see here is there some pictures or something jonathan do you have that uh drawing that was
 yeah thank you for the question and mr williams or mr jorgensen correct me if i'm wrong i believe the most recent submittal i had was from some weeks ago i was not a part of the correspondence for the updated uh amendment i was asked a question about the amendment but i don't believe i ever saw any of the any of the documents associated with it i think those went through the utility department and the city attorney's office
 Well, let me read the new condition two, which replaces a much shorter condition two. The vacation approval will be subject to the new condition two, which is a 30-foot-wide general utility easement centered on the existing sewer main shall be dedicated in place of the right-of-way as depicted on the survey attached as exhibit C. Thank you.
 The general utility easement shall also cover the location of the existing overhead electrical line. So that would be the new condition two. And when it comes to exhibit C, I think that's probably something Mr. Jorgensen has. So we're looking at something, but we don't have anything to look at. Where's the map? The ordinance has been provided to the city council. Okay, so you all got a map then, council? Okay.
 Yes, it's like exhibit A that's connected to the packet. Is that the latest? No, well, the map attached to exhibit A might have been changed, but the exhibit C is the main one connected.
 uh that that really had to be changed on this and so i'll ask we did not create any of that that might have been certainly was probably created by the applicants i don't know if he's ready to show it and if not maybe we can just leave it on the second yeah does the applicant have a picture a map or something showed council yes sir mayor um all right blake pennington actually sent that to um
 let's see, city clerk and let's see everyone else. And so I can, I think I'm gonna forward it to Jonathan Kerr. I just send it to Jonathan. It's okay, Jonathan, you should have it in your inbox. Yeah, I'd love to, if I could share it, I would, but I think it'd probably easier for Mr. Kerr. Okay, great. Jonathan, do you wanna show us a map?
 Certainly, Mayor, as soon as I receive it. It might be a large document, so as soon as I have it, I will. It's pretty small, very small. Still going.
 Yeah. Well, Mr. Jorgensen, one of the, one of the, once Jonathan gets the map up, if you can show us the differences between what you proposed before and what your new exhibit C is, I think that would be very helpful. Very helpful indeed. Thank you. Absolutely. Yes, ma'am. No problem. I guess there's not a way for me to share the screen, is there? So, Jonathan, I've, I pulled up the legislature packet and I can see a map that's in there. Would you like me to try to share my screen?
 Let me make sure I have the right one. It's North Gregg Avenue, ROW Exhibit A. It looks like I just got it. Thank you, Ms. Paxton. Is this the document in question? Yes, sir. That's what I kind of remember now. Perfect. That's exactly it. And, Jonathan, if you don't mind, try to use your hand to guide, I guess, this, I don't know, illustration via Zoom here. We'll start at the very bottom part.
 You'll see there's a 15 foot dimension. That indicates the existing sewer line that's underground. We're going to dedicate 15 feet each side,
 and then as you go north you'll see that 30-foot utility easement that's that's the easement that's going to be dedicated and then just north of that's the 20-foot access easement that's going to run parallel to the existing right-of-way and then if you look just north of that there's this gray-scaled well yeah that's okay Jonathan that that's the existing right-of-way to the east right there so that's the portion would be vacating and then everything else
 in this subway sandwich of layers is what we're dedicating. And that's it. I know it probably seems confusing because there's a lot of lines, but yeah, I hope that's an adequate explanation. And I do think this has been approved by our water and sewer director. Is that your understanding too, Jonathan? I believe I have correspondence from engineers.
 was uh i think it was it was corey that that approved that i believe yes i think they're responding to your office on that yes yeah this is tim and and we are good with the 30 foot easel super all right thank you tim so we're on the amendment and you've seen the map so what is there any discussion or any questions on what you've seen or i i have a question for mr jorgensen
 Thank you for going over your new exhibit C, but can you describe the changes from the last proposal that you had? If Mr. Hurst can help out again, like he did so nicely before. Yeah. Am I still muted or am I on? No, you're on. Okay. Good deal. Yes, ma'am. Well, prior to the last city council meeting, the only thing we were proposing was to dedicate that access easement
 And the reason for that was that there's an existing 50 foot overhead electric easement
 And so we felt that that encompassed the majority of the utilities, but in further looking into the survey, we needed to dedicate a little bit more easement on that sewer line and you'll kind of find that in the southwest corner. And like I said, typically we'll only dedicate 10 feet of easement each side of a sewer main, but because this is the depth of that south manhole is more than 10 feet,
 the water and utilities department requested 15 feet. And so we made that adjustment. Okay, thank you so much. I didn't quite understand it until now. I appreciate that. Yes, ma'am. As orientation, what you see on the left
 I apologize. I don't like doing things on the fly. Here we are doing exactly that. I know exactly how you feel. That's what you see on the left is what I understand the applicant to be proposing, what he described. What you see on the right is what was previously proposed, as I understand it. Yeah, that's correct, Jonathan. What questions do we have?
 Yeah, the shaded area was originally what was being vacated or requested. That's still the portion of right-of-way we're requesting to vacate. The difference now is that while we're going to vacate all that hatched portion, we are proposing to dedicate an access easement and a utility easement as per Exhibit C. Okay. So the amount that you're requesting for
 to, let's see, so the amount that you would want to have access to basically is shrunken what, like about 75%? Is that what I'm? It went from 40 feet down to 20. And we chose 20 because that's a fire access, the minimum fire access. And it's also strategically oriented on the west side of the existing right-of-way because
 if either a road or pedestrian connections made to the north, it needs to eventually curl west because to the east, the further you get into the floodway and the floodplain and the undeveloped portion of that right away. And so, looking into the future, we thought if there was gonna be some connection, it's gonna need somehow to veer more west to get back to Cleveland. I think that's correct.
 Okay. I'll see in Cleveland as you said on the west. I'm not seeing it. Well I'm sorry Cleveland's due north but I'm saying that to get an actual connection to occur due to the topography, the floodway, the floodplain, you can't go due north and that's the original going back in time the original thought was the reason this road was never built because it can't be. Well if we
 dedicate an access easement, we believe that potential for a connection, but we believe that a connection, if it were to occur to the north, it would need to go more northwest as opposed to just due north to Cleveland. Gotcha. Okay, thanks. Yep. What other discussion do we have on the amendments? No. No. Okay. Well, meaning that we have no more discussion and we have a motion and a second.
 to pass the amendment or not um carol would you please call the vote mayor the last vote that i have is we made the second reading oh i'm sorry did we already pass the amendment i i didn't have that i stepped out for a moment did all right council help me out here did we have a motion second for an amendment holly moved and sonya terry's seconded to him okay i have that as the second reading
 Sonia moved to go on to the second reading. All right, let's just back it up then. Holly, did you make a motion to amend the ordinance? Yes, I make a motion to amend the ordinance. And who's the seconder? Sonia, did you second it? Yeah, I was seconding it, and yeah, that's fine for the amendment. And that also includes the exemptions.
 And that includes the executive. Thank you all very much. I thought that's what I had in my head. So now we're voting on the amendment. Alrighty. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay. Now we've heard from staff, we've heard from the applicant.
 There's not any more questions. I'll take a little public comment. Is that the way you read that mr. Attorney? Okay That's what I'm I want to be sure I'm clicking right here. All right Everybody gets one turn to speak You have a duration of five minutes broken into segments of two and three minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic. No mood behavior please give us your name and address fable residents will speak first and
 press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized and unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us from the public on this all right we're going to bring it back to the city council we are on um we're on the second reading correct i mean we suppose and go to the third reading yes second we have a motion a second to go third and finally all right
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to vacate a portion of public right of way for property located east of 662 West Taylor Street. OK. What final comments do we have from the council on this?
 council member turk can you uh let us know on your hesitation oh i um you know i must have spaced out there i thought we were voting on the on the action rather than the third and final reading so i apologize okay thanks i i guess i could change my vote to yes if that's allowed
 but you can you certainly can if you'd like to would you like to do that theresa i i would so yes i'm going to agree with going to the third and final reading i believe we can make that happen all right that may be the most successful thing i do all right anyway um any final comments from the council all right carol would you please call the roll scroggins no bench turk turksburg yes gutierrez
 hmm I'm gonna say yes no no thank you all very much now let's move on to new business
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,905,000 to facilitate the citywide 2021 employee compensation adjustment. Paul, I believe you have this, if you're still with us.
 I do, Mayor. Can you hear me? I sure can. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm pleased to bring this forward, this resolution forward to the Council. We discussed it last week, and just to reiterate a couple of significant points, remember the Mayor's instruction to me was when
 I analyzed revenue and it seemed that we felt that it was prudent and safe to bring a salary adjustment forward for 2021 to the council. We would do so. We're now bringing that forward to the council. That's in conjunction with the pay plan, which sets the police and fire to the market rates. So it includes that plus a step.
 for public safety and a up to 4% merit for merit employees. I want to add a couple of significant issues on this. Number 1, the cost of the plan is $1.5 million in 2021. If sales tax collections equal 2.7 percent over the last year, for the remainder of the 10 months, revenues will equal expenditures for this year,
 And that's if all other revenues stay in accordance with estimates. Sales tax collections have been 4.7% between 2015 and 2019. And I picked that period, 2019, because I didn't want to include 2020, which had a significant increase. And I think that was primarily due to Internet sales and the coronavirus and those adjustments.
 The general fund closed out last year actually with a surplus because of expenditure control and a few dollars that we had left for reimbursements for the coronavirus stimulus package.
 Under normal conditions, we normally don't spend all of our budget, but I can't predict that with any significant accuracy at this point in time. But again, I'm pleased to bring this forward. I know the mayor is pleased to bring it forward. I know it's a high priority with each and every council member. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on this council? Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration both in the segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any councilman stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents be allowed to speak first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address this from the public okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is a resolution what's wishes the council
 Well it may not be super exciting but I'm glad to see this. It's definitely been needed. So is this a resolution or an ordinance? It is a resolution. I need a motion and a second. I move to approve the resolution. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Thank you. All right any final comments from the council? All right. Tara would you please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes.
 Kurt. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very, very much. I need a short break here. Give me about seven minutes. Okie dokie. Number two, an ordinance to waive form of competitive bidding and
 approve a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher LLC for the extension of a sewer line on Fletcher Avenue with a refund any amount not to exceed $13,461 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville and to approve a project tendency any amount of $2,500. Kit. Whereas HFI Fletcher LLC is developing three existing lots along Fletcher Drive
 which currently has no public sewer access. And whereas this particular development requires approximately 174 linear feet of sewer line to reach the project site, an additional 245 linear feet of sewer across the project frontage. And whereas the city would be responsible for 100% of the off-site work,
 The parties will equally share costs of the on-site work and the developer will be responsible for 100% of the cost of the private sewer line connections. And whereas the extension of an 8-inch main in this area will allow for ample future capacity, which the City recognizes will be necessary for the area served by this sewer main. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher Inc LLC,
 for the extension of a sewer line with a refund in the amount not to exceed $13,461 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further improves a project contingency in the amount of $2,500. Okay. Tim. Thank you, Mayor. Is that map up on the screen? Yep.
 Okay, so as Kidd said, HFI Fletcher is developing three existing lots along Fletcher. Two single-family homes were removed for the addition of infill homes. And no sewer exists today in front of these parcels, and a public main is necessary.
 So this development requires approximately 174 linear feet of sewer to reach the project site, an additional 245 feet of sewer across the project frontage. The city would be responsible for 100 percent of the off-site work and splitting the on-site work 50-50 with the developer, and the developer paying 100 percent of the cost for the private service connections.
 The city has elected to design and construct this project in-house to save money versus private contractor installation. The city's cost is estimated at $13,461 and the developers cost is estimated at $16,520.32. This item was presented at the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on March the 9th with a vote of 2 to 1 to forward to the City Council for consideration for approval. One committee met or absent.
 And Council Member Turk had asked me to bring to the council some of the breakdown of the labor of the city's forces. I'd first like to talk about how we decided to do an in-house project. It has to meet certain requirements. First, it has to be a project that we can do in two weeks or less.
 A project that does not have a lot of other utilities in the way because that definitely slows a project down has to be substantial cost savings to the city versus a private contractor and we must have the time in our schedule to do it.
 In this project, the city's labor cost is estimated at $6,295. The equipment usage is estimated at $4,706 and the materials are $18,979 for a total of $29,980.
 The city is paying 70% of the pipe installation and the developer is paying 30% of the pipe installation but they're also paying 100% of the private service lines which is a little over ten thousand dollars. We did get a contractor's quote on this same project and their cost was $71,583 so the decision to do the in-house work is a savings to the city of
 roughly $30,000. And I'd certainly be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Tim, thank you so much for providing that additional information. By the city doing the work, what is the savings to the contractor, to the developer, as opposed to putting that out to bid for a third party to do the work? Okay.
 The savings for the developer in this project is $12,226. You know, I'm generally supportive of these cost share arrangements, but we're actually giving the developer quite a, we're giving him $12,000 of expenses that he doesn't have to pay. And this was, this project was highly opposed by the neighborhood.
 So that is why I cast the dissenting vote in the Water and Sewer Committee meeting because of this financial break that we are giving the developer above other projects that we've done in the past. Okay, any other questions from the council? Mayor, I was hoping we could hear what was the results of the discussion of the Water and Sewer Committee? Okay, Mark is chair of that committee. Do you want to weigh in on that?
 We supported it in the long run, but it was a concern. On the other hand, we need to get infrastructure in while we can. So what do you think, Council Member Turk? Thank you.
 Well, like I said, I'm usually supportive of these cost share arrangements, but because the city is actually paying for a great deal of this with their labor, time, and equipment, I think the developer should make up the cost. I think they should pay the city that $12,000 difference.
 And, you know, the thing is, if we do this, then the next time we do a cost share agreement, and for the reasons that Tim stated, two weeks or less, not a lot of equipment in the way, and they have time, some other business is going to say, hey, you know what, you're not giving me equal treatment. And now I want the city to put...
 this line in, this sewer line in, because we've done it for others. So I think we've got a bit of precedent setting in a way here and giving unfair advantage, albeit small, $12,000 is not a huge amount of money, relatively speaking. But so those are my concerns. Right. Tim, just on that subject,
 they've paid a lot of fees to build theirs. So how much would they have paid just in fees to develop that property? I think that might be a question for Jonathan on the fees that they pay for developments. Well, anyway, that's something that I figured in whenever I was thinking about it. Because the impact fees are there to help. And I just don't know what they are in that property.
 Well, how do you respond to the next applicant that wants to do a cost share and their cost, their share is much higher than in this situation and the neighborhood very strongly opposed this development. It wasn't like they came in and said, hey, great, we're happy that you're going to build here. That was not what we heard from the neighborhood. So those are my, um,
 rationale for my concern. I'll be opposing this. So on the- I actually also understand your point of view. I was just trying to bring a, what had been talked about on the other side and the, I hear you. And I think that we do have to be fair. So. The cost share is for a different size line, correct? This isn't- Yes. I mean, this is something that we need done.
 So the $12,000, some of that is...
 because they're getting a different size line. Tim, do you want to go over that? Yeah, basically if we had, if the city wasn't doing this work and we'd have done the cost share with the contractor, then instead of a $29,980 price tag, it would have been $71,000. And so by doing the cost share, really the city is saving $29,375 with developer,
 who would have had to pay $28,000 on the contractor's token is only paying the $16,000. So that's where they're saving the $12,000. Yeah, I mean, I feel like we need to make decisions that are, if it's better for the city, I don't really care if somebody else makes more money or less money. Like, I don't care. Like, we should make decisions that are best for the city. And I believe that this is what's...
 best for the city to get at that other line in there. So, and then I also don't understand not doing something that's good for the city, which most cross-chairs are, where we're changing line size because more people opposed it. I mean, people are gonna oppose anything ever. You change the color of your door, people are gonna complain if we were to actually bring it before city council.
 But I think we should make decisions what's best for the city. So I will be voting for this. Kim, help me go over this again. I'm sure you went over it, but it's been such, it's a long evening already. But this line.
 Does it connect to any other houses? Does it benefit any other, you know, if this is ever developed at all, does this line benefit any of the neighbors in any way, or is it only a benefit to these three houses? Well, the line does go all the way up almost to Dixon Street, but it doesn't connect to the sewer up there. So the 245 feet is benefiting the development line.
 the 174 feet is additional line that I don't know if there's any development going to happen in the future but that line is available. There was no sewer line there to start with. Okay so now we do if we support this we will have a sewer line there if somebody were wanting to
 tie on to it at some point down the line there they would have that ability then because it's a big line. Yeah there's 420 feet of sewer line there. Yes. Thank you. Okay. What other questions we have from the council? Tim let me ask you a question. We've done these cost shares before? Yes sir we've done them from time to time whenever the criteria is met and we have the time to do it. We have done several of these yes. Okay.
 You know, one thing in this area, we have such aging infrastructure. When we have the opportunity to get in there, I always think that it has to be taken seriously. And in this area, I believe we've done cost shares because of that. That's what I remember as well.
 So just to clarify, the issue is not the cost share. It's really subsidizing the developer when we don't subsidize other developers.
 That that in my mind is the issue. I I do think it's good to go in and add more sewer where we have the opportunity retrofit upgrade old lines. I'm I'm in support of that it's just that the city is doing the work. So we are subsidizing the contractor on this project. Okay, anything else from the council. Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior name and address federal residents first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear who would like to address us from the public house man okay go ahead
 Thank you, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. And I'd like to speak in favor of the cost share agreement here. The developer will build the sewer line that they need for their project. A cost share like this is not necessarily a subsidy to their project. It's a piggyback for the city to serve other customers. The increase in the line is for other people further down the line.
 It opens up access to other properties that currently don't have access. And to that end, I suppose it would subsidize future development. But I'd like to take a moment to remind you about another cost share that was proposed.
 supported about a year and a half ago and it was a much, much larger line out west of Ruple into Farmington where we chose to subsidize future development that wasn't even asking for the line.
 in another community. And that is going to create the kind of development that all of our unanimously adopted long range plans say that we don't want. Whereas this opportunity, this relatively small one will improve the infill score and developability of land that's within walking distance of downtown.
 That's exactly the kind of thing that we say in all of our unanimously approved long range plans that we do want. And if we're going to support the ones that sprawl towards other towns and oppose the ones that are in our downtown core, then it makes me question the sincerity and our commitment to those plans.
 And so I hope that y'all will stay the course and follow through on the priorities you've set. I think this is a smart, cost-effective way to work towards those goals. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Devin Howland. Go ahead, Devin.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council Members. I, too, am here to speak in favor of this tonight. And I could talk about housing crisis or that, you know, this is such a great area to live. My wife and I live about a little less than a mile away from here. And when we brave the topography of Hill Street or Spring Street, we, you know, we really are envious of we've always wanted to live close to the historic district.
 But I just wanted to put a different touch on it. I live in a development, a dense development, that there was a city cost share on water and sewer lines. And looking back a few years ago...
 Had that cost share not been in place, I likely would have paid for it one way or the other, or I would have been priced out. So I'm thankful for that past cost share that took place and that enabled us to be here. And it really is a fantastic location. I'm excited about 10 new homes. While this isn't explicitly for that, it was stated in the memo. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mayor, if I could make one more comment.
 Sure. But I just wanted to reiterate that when we line up these cost shares to do with city forces, we always look at if it's going to save the ratepayers money. And that is one of our key things in this one here. If we would have went and had the contractor do it and paid the cost share, just as we're doing right now, our share would have been $42,000 rather than $13,000. And that's one of the things we look at is how do we save money to our ratepayers? Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. This is an ordinance. It's on first reading. We'll move to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Adjourn us to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher LLC for the extension of the sewer line on Fletcher Avenue with a refund in an amount not to exceed $13,461 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,500. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading.
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to waive formal competitive betting and approve a cost share agreement with HFI Fletcher LLC...
 for the extension of the sewer line on Fletcher Avenue with a refund in the amount not to exceed $13,461 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,500. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? All right, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's move on to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property is a zoning petition RZN 21-031 located northwest of Razorback Road, Sligo Street for approximately one acre from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby changes his own classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from nsl neighborhood services limited to rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in South Fayetteville between Cato Springs to the south and 15th Street to the north. As you can see on the aerial image, it's one parcel south of where the Cato Springs Trail crosses Razorback Road.
 The property includes two parcels totaling almost one acre on the northwest corner of Razorback Road and Sligo Street. There is a piece of undeveloped street right away that does run immediately to the west of it. And for those council members that did visit the property and saw that there are no trespassing signs up, that may be deceptive. It is indeed public right away. We have looked into that. It may be that one of the property owners has simply...
 decided to put that up seeing it's not been used over time. So rest assured it is public right away.
 Although the property has been undeveloped for some time, it is pretty well vegetated. It was developed with some dwellings and what looked like agricultural uses several decades ago prior to Razorback Road coming through here. When the state and city and a few property owners demolished homes for the street to pass by and has remained undeveloped since then.
 As the mayor noted, the request is to rezone the property from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Staff found the request to be  I'm sorry, just as a little bit of context from a zoning perspective 
 The property does, there is a somewhat varying zoning pattern in the area. It includes a residential multifamily 24 units breaker to the west on the other side of that right away. I mentioned to the south and on the east side of Razorback with this property and the one immediately to the north, both zoned NSL.
 When looking at the request from a long range plan perspective, staff found it to be generally compatible. Starting with the future land use map, the property is designated as city neighborhood area. This designation indicates an anticipation of increased levels of density and a potential for non-residential development. So speaking to this, on the one hand, the project certainly addresses the potential for increased density,
 by allowing 24 units per acre in rmf 24 versus 10 and nsl and allowing the full spectrum of housing types from single to multi-family compared to neighborhood services limited only allowing single two three and four family and the flip side of that coin is uh that rmf 24 as the council knows does not allow any buy right non-residential uses so so no commercial use is allowed by right there
 When looking at the request for the lens of city plan 2040 The location and its access to too many amenities represents What staff considers to be appropriate infill it can support a complete neighborhood through the addition of additional housing It's located near several key
 sections of Fayetteville's transportation network, the Cato Springs Trail I mentioned to the north earlier, Razorback Road immediately to the west, and it's a short jump to the I-49 interchange to the south.
 Other considerations in city plan 2040 the staff found to support the request include Some of its infill attributes. It got 10 on that score that metric including for fire response water and sewer access to park and trail transit and the future land use designation I described above and
 Also, it's in close proximity to one of the growth concept maps tier two centers closer to Cato Springs to the south. So this property is definitely within the walking shed of where the city anticipates some intense development at that location. Lastly, staff did consider 2009's Fayette Junction plan.
 This plan's implementation included rezoning much of Razorback Road, including this property, taking it from what was previously RMF 24 to NSL. While this rezoning was certainly deliberate, the intervening years without development suggests to staff that the property may not be zoned for its highest and best use. And so we have found that it is appropriate to recommend in favor of it at this time.
 As for other issues, the consistent theme and staff and the commissions, planning commissions, the liberations was a loss of potential for non-residential uses. In a nutshell, all the property does have access to all the infrastructure and amenities that I described, water, sewer, trails, street.
 there's really not any accommodation for walkable services except other properties that are zoned for commercial uses in the area so that was certainly an overriding concern staff does recommend the approval as requested the while the planning commission did support the increased density of rmf24 they unanimously forwarded the request recommending cs community services in place of rmf24
 Again, it came back to that conversation of the need to have services and be a permitted use in this particular spot. And if the council will recall, oftentimes CS has been a bone of contention for residents and appointed and elected officials because of that previous allowance for gas stations and drive-thru restaurants, which recently changed.
 On the applicant's behalf, they did not agree to amend the request to CS. There is existing RMF24 zoning near this property that they're also interested in developing coherently, and they did have concerns about being able to do a consistent development with having varying zoning districts across their properties. So, again, they have not to this point agreed to revising their request to CS and are moving forward with RMF24 zoning.
 And with that, Zach Hickson is here from the development team. Staff has not received any comment to date, nor was there any made at the commission. And I'm happy to take any questions from the council. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Okay. What questions do we have for Jonathan on this? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one term to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior name and address residents first press star and i on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you who would like to address us from the public okay I'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what's the wishes of the council
 I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. We have a second? I second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-031 located northwest of Razorback Road and Sligo Street for approximately an acre from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre. This is an ordinance that's on the second reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Turf. Yes. Ertsberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition rzn 21-031 located northwest of razorback road and sligo street for approximately an acre from nsl uh neighborhood services limited to rmf 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre any final comments from the council i have a comment um you know i'm just kind of surprised that um
 We're not thinking about what the Planning Commission recommended, or at least we haven't had any discussion about that right now. And then also about what the zoning was with Fayetteville Junction. It seems like we're always wanting to be able to have
 mixed use and if we go along with the RMF 24, that's not going to happen. So I just wanted to put it out there for my colleagues that maybe the meeting's just super long and we're all worn out. So I'll just leave it at that. Sorry, go ahead. Jonathan in the Fayette Junction, what was that the zoning over there was CS?
 This property was rezoned to NSL. It's current rezoning as a part of that area-wide rezoning with Fayette Junction. So it was previously it was RMF 24 and with Fayette Junction, it was rezoned to NSL. Some property to the south, which we'll be discussing in a couple items, was rezoned to CS. Right. OK. Sonia, did you have something? No.
 Yeah, I'm just that I'm in this area quite a bit and it is still near some services. You know, there's that on the corner there, there's a large area that's got restaurants and services. And actually, there's quite a few empty storefronts right now, probably because of the pandemic, but
 there's quite a big area there for businesses. So it's not too far away. You can get on the sidewalk and kind of go around the corner. And I think there is still some potentials for some more services for sure. But I just want to let you know they're not too far. I got a question for staff. Is there any difference on stormwater requirements between CS and RMF 24?
 no our stormwater requirements are based on the development not the zoning uh for what it is worth and i don't know if the applicant it appears they're in attendance i'm not sure why they spoke it is their intent to develop this property as a whole which would if that is the case would subject them to our tree preservation and storm water standards okay um
 Well, let's see what council thinks. I'd like to move that we amend this to the planning commission's recommendation, CS. Second. Okay, what else does council have on this? We're down to the final reading. We're at the, you want to make an amendment? Do you, what do y'all want to do? I think he did make a motion to amend to what the planning commission had recommended and that was seconded.
 Okay, who seconded the motion? Okay, all right, so we have a motion and a second. What discussion would you like to have on this before we vote? Mr. Mayor, this is Jonathan Kurth. It does appear that Zach Hickson, the applicant, has raised their hand to be recognized if you'd like to entertain that. Okay, sure. Go ahead.
 Good evening. I was trying to speak earlier. I guess I was muted there, but I did just want to speak on the reason why we are asking for an RMF as opposed to CS is that we, I say we, I'm representing the applicant, but the applicant owns an out parcel that is RMF 24 already, and we've
 would like to keep all of the property as RMF24 to have a consistent zone. So that was just the reason I wanted to clarify that. Mayor, I have a follow up question to that. Sure. Like against like isn't a very compelling reason not to get this parcel zone something different. It affords you all of the same and truly affords you more flexibility than RMF24 does. Is there a technical reason
 that community services wouldn't work for you? Or is it simply a desire to have the same designation? Mr. Kurth, you can clarify me if I get this wrong, but based on past experience, CS has a different bill 2 zone and setback zone from RMF24. While we don't have development plans prepared for this project yet or this property yet,
 having the frontage on South Razorback Road have two different zones that could have potential different setbacks and build to requirements that could just cause some hindrances for the required frontage build along South Razorback.
 And if Council would like me to expand on that, I think what Mr. Hickson was referring to is the RMF 24 zoning district has a zero to 25 foot build to zone. So theoretically, a building can be built immediately up against the right away or the property line, the front property line.
 Whereas the CS zoning district has a 10 foot setback before buildings can be placed there. That's kind of offset with RMF 24's building height allowance, which while you can build your buildings right up to the street in RMF 24, it requires a stair-stepped height requirement where you have to scoot your building or portions of your building back as it increases in height.
 whereas the CS zoning district allows a maximum or a building height maximum of five stories but it starts 10 feet back from the front property line Jonathan what's the zoning of the apartment complex just up from there are you referring to the one Mr. Mayor at 15th street yep
 I believe that one is zoned on the west side of the street or the west side of the street. It's the left-hand side if you're going north. What? It's zoned UT Urban Thoroughfare. If you've been in the area recently on the
 I've been in the area. That was more for the benefit of the rest of the council. On the east side of the road, the east side of the road is under construction as a mixture of UT Urban Thoroughfare and RMF 24. Okay. I was thinking it was RMF 24. Are we on the second reading? No, there's a motion to amend. Oh yes.
 And Planning Commission did vote 7-0 to recommend CS, is that correct? That is correct. Okay. Okay, so is there any other suggestion on the amendment? Okay, Karen would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bench? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Okay. Passed five to three, so now we have an amended ordinance. Do see us. Okay. What discussion do we have on the amended ordinance just before we vote? I suppose, yes. Anything? What voting are we on? We're there. We're done. Okay. We're here. It is now. Better than later. Anyway, so any final comments on the amended ordinance before we vote?
 okay kira would you please call them up scroggin yes bench yes her yes artsburg yes gutierrez yes jones yes canyon yes petty yes okay moving along to number four
 An ordinance to rezone that property describing the zoning petition RZN 21-033 located at 797 West Cherry Lane for approximately 1.02 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Tim. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban, Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Okay. Jonathan. MR.
 This property is in southeast Fayetteville, about halfway between Crossover to the east and Happy Hollow to the west. It's located on the north side of Huntsville along Cherry Lane. The property is currently developed with a single-family home, which fronts Cherry Lane, but also includes two parcels, the larger one of which is actually located mid-block between Cherry Lane and Dockery Lane. So in that sense, it's something of an unusually shaped property.
 There is some fairly varied zoning and land uses in the area. Some cases of which the land uses don't actually follow the zoning, so it's unusual in that case. It ranges from some small single-family homes to quadplexes on the residential side of things.
 and small offices and a coffee shop to the west and southeast all the way to a gas station that's currently under construction on the former Mexican original property southwest of here. The request is to rezone the property from RSF4 to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban with the applicant's intent to develop it residentially as is allowed under the RIU Zoning District.
 Staff found the request to be consistent with the varied land uses in the area. RAU, despite the appearances of having very significant impacts in the form of unlimited density, is inherently limited by the size of buildings and other portions of our development code, such as parking requirements and stormwater, if it were to be applicable with what comes forward.
 Similarly, we found the proposal to be consistent with our long-range plans. The Future Land Use Map designates this property as a residential neighborhood area, which is intended to encourage a wide spectrum of residential uses, which the RU zoning district speaks to with its allowance for 1, 2, 3, and 4 family dwellings. We also felt that the request is complementary of City Plan 2040 goals.
 similar to the last item this property has fairly ready access to some pretty significant trait or transportation routes in the city crossover to the east hunts are happy hollow to the west and it's directly on Huntsville Road there's transit in the area there's a public school that's although not immediately accessible it's it's within close proximity of happy hollow Elementary
 Similarly, the growth concept map and infill attributes in City Plan 2040 suggest this would be a good site for infill. The infill score of 6 is fairly middle of the road. There's not anything particularly remarkable other than, again, the proximity to Happy Hollow.
 Some of the major issues on this property include access to services. I did note that there are some in the area that are generally walkable, but when it comes to some of the larger needs, grocery stores and things like that, those are not immediately there. But if you've been to the area recently, you've probably noticed that it is kind of organically headed that direction, the addition of...
 or conversion of some houses to offices, a gas station to a coffee shop, suggest that this is becoming a complete neighborhood in that regard.
 The other major issue or the probably largest issue that caused staff concern is the condition of Cherry Lane. The street is very narrow. At points it can be as narrow as 14 to 18 feet wide. While it is signed to restrict on-street parking,
 It does, it would potentially create challenges for any development there. It is likely that any development does happen there would have to expect to do some degree of widening to Cherry Lane, which there is potential for. When Huntsville Road was done, the apron to Cherry Lane, if you will, was poured such that widening could be readily tied into Huntsville Road to make that work.
 All told, staff is in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed and has forwarded it recommending approval with a unanimous vote. We did receive some public comment in the lead up to the meeting and at the meeting itself. There was opposition to the proposal. There were concerns about particularly the rear parcel, the one that sits between street blocks, if you will, and concerns about privacy if that were to be developed and how it can be developed.
 and of course many of the neighbors did or those that did comment also noted that Cherry Lane is a fairly narrow street with that said I believe I have Mr. Brockman here as the applicant showing us Greg Brockman and I'm available for any questions the council has thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 Mr. Brockman, if we're audible. Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm Greg Brockman. I am representing the owners of A&B Enterprises, who are Russell Brockman and Michael Andrews, both longtime Fayetteville residents. I believe the city said everything that I can say. I'll answer any comments or questions you have. Okay. What questions do we have in the council office?
 Okay, let's take some public comment there. Hey, everybody, just one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, broken into segments in three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no lewd behavior, name and address, residents first, press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us first? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 what discussion wishes and council questions what do we have i i have a comment um i had some friends that lived on cherry street they no longer live there um that street is very very narrow uh as uh jonathan mentioned um i i think it would be helpful to have a tour there so that people could just kind of get the scale the small uh scale of that neighborhood um
 And so I would suggest that the, the other thing is, I'm just wondering about, you know, access. I mean, it it's, and the density, cause this will be a, a pretty, um,
 big increase in the zoning density that's in that neighborhood. Right now, it's fairly small, modest houses that are, I believe, single family. I haven't been there in several years, but that's my recollection. And again, the street is very narrow. Okay. What other comments do we have in the council? Okay. So do y'all want to hold it here? Okay. We'll just hold it right here then.
 okay let's move along to number five in order to prove vacation 21-015 the property located at 2015 south vale avenue the vacated portion of public right-of-way between south razorback road and south vale avenue as well as a portion of a 10-foot wide alley right away whereas the city council has the authority under aca 14-54-104
 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of public right of way is not required for corporate purposes now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the portions of the street and alley right-of-way as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Paying Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number 2,
 A 20-foot wide public right-of-way shall be dedicated along the south border of the property, connecting South Razorback Road and South Vail Avenue for use as a multi-use trail. And number three, any buildings constructed along the new 20-foot public right-of-way on the south border of the property shall comply with relevant design standards for buildings with street frontage. Okay. John? John?
 Thank you, Mayor. Apologies for the whiplash, but we're back on Razorback Road again. This is just a little way south of that rezoning that two items ago. We're in South Fayetteville. This property is a little bit north of Razorback Road's intersection with Cato Springs Road.
 It includes a portion of public right-of-way that was dedicated, well, from staff's research, was dedicated in 1924 with the Meadowvale subdivision. There are no indications, whether by historical aerial imagery or otherwise, that the street was ever built or the little stub out of alley that you can see coming north from it. Although if you had a chance to visit the property, you saw that on Razorback Road,
 The state was kind enough to create a street stub out there to theoretically connect to it if it was ever proposed in the future. The applicant proposes to vacate both the right-of-way that's running east-west between Razorback Road and Vail and the portion of Valley Right-of-way that extends north from that.
 You can see here the applicants exhibit juxtaposing the proposed vacation over that the Meadowvale subdivision when it came through in the early 20th century. There were a few considerations staff had when looking at this. The first and most straightforward of which I didn't include here because it's on every vacation request is whether the utilities have signed off on it. All our franchise utilities have agreed to this, agreed to this request.
 Moving on from that, which is a standard requirement, was consideration of some of the city's long range planning goals, specifically those to create compact, complete, and connected neighborhoods. Our street network are the bones of doing this. If we aren't able to create a street network and ensure its integrity and development, it makes it increasingly difficult for pedestrian vehicle and other traffic to move around within a city.
 This also is a big piece of the Fayette Junction plan. For those not familiar with it, it was centered around the development of a transportation hub at the old Fayette Junction just to the east of this property, with the idea being that this would be one of the main pieces of property whose development would contribute to making that transportation hub feasible or viable, and ensuring a tight street grid in that area would help contribute to that.
 On a more day-to-day consideration, staff looked at the request in terms of our block length standards
 As the property currently exists, or as the right-of-way currently exists, if this portion of right-of-way were developed, it would create a street grid that meets our minimum desire in the city of having block lengths of less than 660 linear feet or an eighth of a mile. If it were vacated, however, it would compromise that.
 and create a block length from well to the north all the way down to Cato Springs that exceeds that 660 feet. I believe a total just over 800 feet. So all that said, staff did enter the Planning Commission meeting recommending denial of the request. The Planning Commission did see an opportunity to work with the applicant, the applicant's
 did want to take the commission up on that. And so in addition to the typical condition of approval that the council sees on a right away vacation that the developer is responsible for relocating and moving any existing utilities, the developer did agree to the commission's proposal that a minimum 20 feet of right away be dedicated along the southern portion of the site for use as a multi-use trail
 and as Kit described more in the full language of the ordinance and the intent being that even though that would be used for multi-use trail, there are several development standards and design standards in our city that talk about how buildings should appear when it's facing a street. And the Commission wanted to ensure that any of the buildings facing this trail right away would treat it as though it were a street, not turning their back to it.
 So the Planning Commission recommended in favor of it with the addition of those two conditions, the dedication of additional right-of-way for a multi-use trail, and that any development along that right-of-way meet the city's design standards for adjacency to or principal facade standards for adjacency to a street.
 The applicant did say they're amenable to it. We did receive a couple of pieces of public comment. One was more of an inquiry. They had a tomato garden and a different piece of right away in the area. And they were concerned that that would be removed. And another resident was concerned with this area being developed. They wanted, they were hoping for more details of what would go in there since it's remained undeveloped for so many decades.
 And that said, I'm available for questions. And I believe from the applicant's team, I have Kayle Bowling here available to speak to the request. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yes, Mr. Mayor, can everybody hear me? Yes.
 Okay. Thank you guys for your time. I know it's late. I'm going to be as brief as I can. I'm Cale Bowling. I'm an attorney in Rogers, although I live in Fayetteville. I'm here on behalf of Rock Creek Holdings.
 This request did start as a request for a right away vacation. I think it's probably now better characterized as a right of way transformation and relocation. We had a really collaborative, productive planning commission meeting
 And they were cognizant of staff's concerns about connectivity and a tight, livable street network and neighborhood grid. And, you know, my client was very receptive, frankly, to that.
 relocating this right away and repurposing it from a street right of way to this multi-use trail right away. Frankly, it's turned into a really neat concept. And I do have some some concept drawings
 that I forwarded on to Jonathan. I'm not sure if we're able to look at those right now or if I have the ability to share my screen, but if so, I'll just walk through them real quickly with you if we can do that. Is it possible for Mr. Bulling to be granted panelists permissions to share his screen? Otherwise I do have his presentation if necessary. But keep in mind, Mr. Bowman, you have 10 minutes total here. So how much time has he used?
 Three minutes. So you have seven minutes to present. I'll be quick. I won't need all seven, I promise. Okay. Okay. We'll wait till this screen pops up before we continue on with time. Okay. Okay. You're on. Okay. Can everyone see my screen? Yep. Okay. So, like I said, I'll be quick. This is just a concept drawing of the proposed site, okay? Let me just back up here real quick.
 This is just an aerial overview and right here is the subject property. The top yellow line is the existing right-of-way. The bottom yellow line is where the proposed multi-use trail right-of-way would exist. Those locations are approximate, but they're very close.
 What you're looking at here is on the left, a cutout from the Fayette Junction master plan, and on the right, an overlay of the Fayette Junction master plan on the existing property. Again, with that right-of-way as it exists now highlighted.
 What you're looking at here is on the left, that same cutout from the master plan. On the right, you've got an overlay of my client's site concept drawing again with the right-of-way.
 uh as we would propose to relocate it down here at the bottom okay and i've got bigger examples of that site plan and here they are essentially what it is is a it's a roughly 200 unit uh multi-family complex um this road here is razorback this road here is veil and um as you can see you got access from both sides
 And then this is just more, you get this a better overlay here. This sidewalk at the bottom where the yellow highlight is will become that new 20 foot multi-use trail right of way. You can see on this slide or this photo right here.
 just east of Vail is a railroad line and so there's no, at least in my view, not a lot of potential for any further east-west street development on the other side of Vail. Now that becomes important and these are just more photos for our cyclones. That becomes important because as you can see from this overhead
 There are several east-west connectors already, street connectors between Razorback and Vail. You've got Cato Springs, you've got Junction, you've got Sligo, you've got Netherland, and then Vail dead ends here at the north.
 Okay, so we've got these four connectors in this little block. It's our view that this additional connector, street connector, doesn't add much value in way of connectivity, but this multi-use trail right-of-way would, at least in terms of pedestrian and bicycle traffic. And the Planning Commission agreed. In fact, they made that recommendation and we loved it.
 I'm going to stop there. You guys have been inundated with information. I'm happy to field questions if you've got any, and I appreciate your time. I'm going to stop sharing my screen now. Okay. All right. Jonathan, I have a question. What was the staff's position on this?
 I don't staff is still not in supportive of the request. I think this goes a long way to maintaining some degree of connectivity between Razorback and Vail. Ultimately and I guess as a point of clarification to Mr. Bowling's comments,
 There is the appearance of a lot of connectivity between Vail and Razorback, but it is worth noting that both Netherland and Junction are private streets. Neither of those are public streets. And but that is that is due to noting that the that there is a railroad there. I think the Council knows very well from the last year that crossing railroad tracks is not no easy feat.
 I think, again, I think it made it a much more palatable consideration for staff, but we still do not support it. Because you're losing connectivity. Correct. Yes, ma'am. Okay. What other questions do we have in the council? Jonathan, just to clarify, you're saying staff doesn't support the request even with the conditions listed? Correct. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior, name and address, federal residents first, press star nine on your phone, or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What discussions do we need to have?
 And so. Would we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Do we have a second? Okay. I guess we will stay right here. If there's not any discussion on that one, we will move to the next one.
 Okay, number six, an ordinance to amend 72.03, parking prohibited in certain places, and 164.17, visibility at intersections in residential and non-residential districts. The city code to allow greater flexibility and discretion for an on-street parking spaces near crosswalks and traffic signals at intersections. Kit. Okay.
 Mayor, this is an extremely long ordinance, well not extremely, a page and a half, and I think that possibly the staff is wanting to just go ahead and table this so I don't have to read it all. Okay, and that would be, Justin, would you give us the justification for tabling, Justin?
 Yes, thank you, Mayor and Council. So this began as an effort to try to provide some discretion with respect to specific distance requirements where on-street parking is prohibited as you approach a crosswalk or stop sign. And we wanted to give staff some discretion when certain conditions met for parking.
 safety reasons and to make the most practical and efficient use of public right-of-way for
 for on-street parking. However, there's a state statute that exists that this code amendment would conflict with if we were to make it. So we're requesting that this be tabled indefinitely so that we can reevaluate and determine if we should or even can pursue something like this at some point in the future. Okay, I need a motion and a second to table indefinitely.
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second too. Did you get that, Caravage? Okay, Matthew, was that you? Who? No, Mayor, I was muted. Oh, okay. All right, I need a motion and a second. Let's start again. The table indefinitely. So moved. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second. The table indefinitely. Caravage, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number seven, an ordinance to amend subsection A, fee increases in 50.40 rights for services in federal city code to adjust recycling trash use of fees based on water, sewer, trash collection, sub-index of the consumer price index, KIPP.
 Whereas on January 3, 2019, the City Council approved an amendment to Section 50.40, Rates for Services, which tied annual adjustments to the recycling and trash user fee to the Consumer Price Index, based on the recommendation contained in the Recycling and Trash Collection Rate Study completed by MSW Consultants.
 And whereas on October 15th, 2019, the City Council authorized renewal of the contract with Waste Management of Arkansas Incorporated for solid waste transfer and disposal services, which tied adjustments to the fees paid by the city to the water, sewer, trash collection sub-index of the consumer price index. And whereas on January,
 2021, the city's rates for residential and commercial services were increased by 1.24% in accordance with the CPI increase, but waste management increased the hauling and disposal fee charged to the city by 3.3% in accordance with the water, sewer, trash collection, CPI sub-index increase pursuant to its contracts.
 And whereas rates for the residential and commercial services are set to cover all operating expenses for the programs, but because of the different indexes used by the city and waste management, the recycling and trash collection divisions operating expenses were increased disproportionately compared to the revenue collected from residential and commercial customers.
 And whereas the staff recommends amending the language in section 50.40 subsection A fee increases to specify that the recycling and trash user fee shall be adjusted annually based upon the CPI subindex for water, sewer, and trash collection as published by the United States Department of Labor unless specifically weighed by the City Council resolution.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Subsection A fee increases within Section 50.40 rates for services and enacts a new Section 50.40 Subsection A as follows, quote, Subsection A fee increases.
 The recycling and trash user fee shall be adjusted annually based upon the Consumer Price Index subindex for water, sewer, and trash collection as published by the U.S. Department of Labor unless specifically waived by a city council resolution. Okay. Peter, I believe you have this one.
 Yes, sir, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Kit pretty well summarized it with the language that he just read, but essentially the situation is our rates automatically adjust for commercial and residential customers, unless specifically waived by the Council every year by the CPI index.
 And what this ordinance change would do was change, instead of using the whole CPI index, we would use a CPI sub-indices that is tied to water, sewer, and trash collection, which is more industry-specific.
 We're proposing to make that change because the fee that we are charged by waste management for hauling in disposal of trash that comes into the transfer station is tied to that sub-indices. So, as Kit noted, this year in January, our rates were increased by 1.2% to commercial and residential customers, but our costs went up by 3.3%. So, this would tie both our rate increases and our costs to the same indices going forward.
 And I'll be glad to answer any questions you all might have. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. It's a five-minute duration, both in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents first.
 Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion or what wishes council do we have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Yes.
 Gertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to amend subsection A, fee increases in section 50.40, rates for services of the Fayetteville City Code, to adjust recycling and trash user fees based on the water, sewer, and trash collection sub-index of the Consumer Price Index.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Ertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 In order to amend subsection A, fee increases in section 50.40, rates for services, of the Fayetteville City Code to adjust recycling and trash user fees based on the water, sewer, and trash collection sub-index of the Consumer Price Index. What final comments do we have on the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Terp? Yes. Yes.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number eight, an ordinance to amend 166.04 dedication of right of way of the Unified Development Code by adding the power of the City Council to grant a lesser dedication of the master street plan right of way requirement for a lot split.
 I need to read the ordinance. OK. Kit. Whereas section 166.04 subsection B2A requires that the subdivision committee or planning commission must make a recommendation to approve a lesser dedication of Master Street plan right away for a lot split before such lesser dedication can be granted by the city council.
 And whereas the city council should retain the right to grant such lesser dedication of street right away for a lot split on its own initiative, especially when such lesser dedication may be necessary to avoid unconstitutional exaction or taking a private property. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 126.04 by enacting a final sentence as follows, quote, the City Council retains the right to grant a lesser dedication of right-of-way than is normally required by the Master Street Plan without the subdivision committee's or the Planning Commission's recommendation, unquote.
 And section two, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby grants the lesser dedication of master street plan right-of-way requested by Zara Niederman to match his previous dedication of street right-of-way required for the same lot split development. I think the sponsor of this is Sonia Gutierrez, so she might want to start off. And I think Zara is probably here too as really kind of the applicant.
 Yeah, thank you Mayor and thanks Kit for working with me on this. Yes, Z came to me and was just explaining that before he started the project, there was a different Master Street Plan right-of-way requirement. And then when he came back for the lot split, we had changed and updated the
 the master street plan so that he would have to grant more. But since this project was already built, then he wasn't really technically able to do that. And so then Kit found out that we actually didn't have that power within city council to do that. And so we have two parks, we've got the update to the code to allow us to make that decision and then second to allow
 a lesser right of way to the developer. And Jonathan, if you wanna add anything there, clarify.
 No, I think you described it well. It came through a lot split under City Plan 2030's Master Street Plan, and then several dwelling units were built, and they've come back to split them off so they can be sold fee simple. And anytime we subdivide property in Fayetteville, our current ordinance is required right-of-way dedication under the current Master Street Plan. And so in the intervening time, City Plan 2040 was adopted with its Master Street Plan.
 So this is the pressure relief valve our ordinance has to allow applicants to pursue a lesser dedication right away where necessary. I don't know if Zara is here. I think he is. Would you like to speak to the council? Can you hear me? Yes. All right. Thank you. Just as a short summary, I think it was summed up well already, but we had...
 the building permits based on the previous right of way and the new right of way would actually add about four feet and it would go into the front porches of the buildings that we've already built and are about ready to get very close to getting a certificate of occupancy on them. And so we don't really have any capacity to get that done.
 give more right away. And so that's why we're requesting it. And the reason I requested it go straight to city council was because we're almost done and to go through first planning commission and then city council was gonna take about three months, which would be well after the time that we would be complete. So that was why I had asked to move it forward. Thank you.
 Okay. What questions do we have? What questions do we have from the city council for the staff or Sonia or the applicant? Okay. I mean, if there are no questions. I'm going to take some public comment first. Thank you.
 Okay, everybody has one turn to speak. Five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, federal residence first, press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Who would like to address us from the public? Nobody? Okay, I will bring it back to the council, okay.
 Sonja, I believe you were going to say something. Yes. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 And in order to amend section 16604B2A, dedication of right-of-way of the Unified Development Code, by adding the power of the City Council to grant a lesser dedication of Master Street plan right-of-way requirement for a lot split. And so. We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Scroggins. Yes. Ben. Yes. Terp.
 Yes. Gertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. In order to amend Section 16604B2A, dedication of right-of-way of the Unified Development Code by adding the power of the City Council to grant lesser dedication of the Master Street Plan right-of-way requirement for a lot spreader.
 Okay, what final comments do we have from the council on this? No? Okay. That being the case, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Okay, well, that concludes our business for this evening. Do we have any announcements? Oh, Susan, you have one. Just one, Mayor. This month of April is the spring bulky waste cleanup, and I wanted to bring to everyone's attention that this Saturday is at St. James Baptist Church, as well as the recycling and trash facility on Happy Hollow. But I also wanted to point out that this is the second Saturday in a row we'll have the household hazardous waste trailer that was really popular last time.
 But that'll be the last time we have a trailer until we make new arrangements. So this Saturday we'll have those three different options. The following Saturday we'll have another location, Butterfield Trail, and then that's when the paper shredding will be offered. So those unique characteristics of our bulky waste pickup, thanks. Any other announcements?
 Other than the mayor will be on the Buffalo Thursday, Friday, and part of Saturday. I will not have any phone service. So, gee, I hate that. I wish you all well. I will see you probably sometime Saturday afternoon if I run across. All right. Thank you all. Happy canoeing. Thank you. Thank you. Bye.
 All right. Y'all have a nice evening. Thank you all for all the work you do. We're adjourned.