I would like to call the city council meeting of April the 16th to order. Son, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Pledge of allegiance to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening everyone. Under recognitions and presentations tonight, I have an award I would like to present to Paul Becker, Financial Reporting Achievement Award presented to the City of Federal Accounting Division. Paul? I would like to say as I present this award that Paul and Marsha, that Paul and Paul's department does a tremendous job for this city in managing finances. I thank God, so this is a great award, Paul, and I really appreciate all your work, all your service, and keeping the mayor lined up. Because we have several new council members, I wanted to make sure that I introduced Marcia Hurtwig. Even though my name is on this award, I'm not the one in the trenches doing that work every day. Marcia who is our accounting director and her team do a fantastic job. They actually put these statements together I just look at them when they're there But I want to introduce her because this is one of the people that isn't visible every day But does an outstanding job for this city herner came to a fantastic job And we're very very lucky to have them here at the city of Fayetteville. Absolutely Okay, thank you all. Next order of business, consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 2, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 19-19 that authorized purchase of oil, air, and fuel filters from O'Reilly Auto Parts for varying unit prices as needed for a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number three, a resolution authorizes acceptance of a 2018 Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality grant to the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $7,000 for a compost bin sale and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $50 representing donations to Ranger's Pantry. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $4,056 representing a donation from Friends of YRCC to fund a paid summer camp. internship opportunity with the Yvonne Richardson Community Center Summer Fund for Kids Program. Number six, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with United States Postal Service for the terminal space located at 4500 South School Avenue, Suite P to extend the term of the lease through February 16, 2025 for annual rent in the amount of $27,648. Number seven, a resolution to authorize the EPA region 6 wetland program development grant application in total amount of five hundred thousand dollars for restoration of Tanglewood branch within the cultural arts corridor number eight a resolution to award bid number 19 dash 28 and authorize the purchase of precast concrete box covers from Sherlock industries in the amount of fifty one thousand eight hundred twenty one dollars and fifty cents plus applicable taxes for a tunnel crossing under Old Wire Road on the Neocosco Creek Trail. Number nine, a resolution to amend the 2019 budget by reducing the amount of reappropriations from the 2018 budget by $2,532,487. And number 10, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC pursuant to RFQ 19-01-20. Any amount of $246,450 for the engineering design of water line replacements along South Garland Avenue and East Rolling Hills Drive and to approve a budget adjustment. Mark. I move we accept the consent agenda as presented. Priest. I second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. In an unfinished business, we have none. Under new business, number one, a resolution to approve a land purchase use and conservation contract with Watershed Conservation Resource Center for the joint purchase of about 98 acres of land near Dead Horse Mountain Road for the amount of $250,000 plus closing costs with the city's portion of the cost not to exceed $160,000. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The Watershed Conservation Resource Center and the City of Fayetteville are mutually interested in conservation of a property located off of Dead Horse Mountain Road. The property will be restored and enhanced to provide water quality improvements and protection of the Beaver Lake Watershed. This contract will allow for the purchase of approximately 98 acres of land abutting Dead Horse Mountain Road, which will secure the conservation site and enable the restoration of the stream banks that lead to the Beaver Lake Watershed. This property is a natural filter of sediment, nutrients, and other pollutants. The pond helps to capture and treat stormwater runoff. The expansive floodplain of this section of the West Fork of the White River relieves stress on the riverbanks. Development of this site would damage this benefit and could result in an increase of streambank erosion. This will improve the water quality in the watershed as well as adding recreational benefit to the citizens of Fayetteville. Public access to the West Fork of the White River could be provided, which would eventually include a proposed trail, canoe and kayak access point, and the creation of a bird and butterfly park that supports bird and monarch butterfly habitat. the city of fable's portion of the proposed land purchase would be in the amount of 150 000 plus half of the closing costs closing costs will include the cost of environmental site assessments survey and title policy premiums the city of fable's portion of the closing costs are estimated to be 10 000 for a total of 160 000 this was presented to the water student's hog waste committee at its january meeting and was approved unanimously to be forwarded to the city council You have any answering questions? This is really good project council. I know that we were approached What was about last November somewhere along in there what we started talking about this is something is really going to be Really good for the city really good as far as restoring that Land back to what it was before it was all bulldozed away So thank you. I'm going to thank the modern sewer committee to work on this Teresa. I Thank you, Mayor. Yes, this is a project that I think has great value. Like the Mayor said, you know, the more that we can stabilize the stream bank and prevent sedimentation and phosphorus and nitrogen from entering our watershed, the better. And so I want to commend everybody that's been working on this. I think this is a really great use of public funds. Okay. Anybody else? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Seeing none, right back to the council. Mark. Let's see. I move that we accept the resolution as published. Theresa. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Burke. Yes. Smith. Yes. McTarris. Yes. Yes. Petty. Yes. Coggins. Yes. Funch. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number two, a resolution of... to approve the 10th Amendment Interlocal Agreement for Jail Services, Washington County, Arkansas, for continuing fees of $62 per booked prisoner for 2019. Chief. Thanks, Mayor and Council. This is just a continuation of the contract we've had with Washington County since 2005 for jail services. This will be the third year that the fees stayed the same. $62 will be $17, $18, and then $19, the price will be the same. As I told you at the end of session, this will be retroactive back to January 1st of this year. I'll be happy to answer any questions if you have any. What questions do we have from the Chief of Council? All right. What public comment do we have on this one? so you're not bringing back to the council so i mean that we accept this resolution theresa i second that we have the motion in the second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council sonya with the neighbor in secondary please get the motions in sorry there we go all right there's not any comments from the council somebody would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number three an ordinance the way the comments form competitive bidding and to prove a cost share agreement with home and construction llc for the installation of sewer main along a portion of south school avenue between west south street and south archibald yale boulevard with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fiddle not to exceed $37,189.38 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,720. Whereas Bauman Construction LLC will be developing property located at 304 South School Avenue, And as requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South School Avenue between West South Street and South Archibald Yale Avenue, a distance of approximately 277 feet. And whereas the city of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share as it will provide for ample future capacity, which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by this sewer main. And whereas section 51.113 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system, unquote. And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on site installing the line for the developer's project. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with Bauman Construction LLC for the installation of an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South School Avenue between West South Street and South Archibald Yale Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $37,189.38, and further approves our project contingency in the amount of $3,720. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. Bauman Construction had requested that the city share in the cost of extending this eight-inch main, 277 feet along South School, between South Street and Archibald Yale. Constructing this sewer main will allow the development of three townhomes on the property and will also allow for any future developments in the immediate area that need to attend sewer service. Boundary Construction did receive three bids from proposed sanitary sewer improvements and a bid from S&K Dirt Works of Fayetteville has been determined to be the lowest qualified Bates & Associates will provide the engineering and surveying services. So the staff does recommend the approval of the cost share agreement in the amount of $37,189.38 with a contingency of $3,720. This item was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee on March 12th with unanimous vote to forward it to the full city council for consideration. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. Mark, do you have any comments you want to weigh in? Yes. In the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, when we look at the possibility of sharing the cost of something that we're going to be faced with replacing anyway, this certainly brings to the forefront the savings of time, the savings of cost, and being proactive at looking at the need in an area such as this. So we're getting – that's three benefits – by sharing the cost of something that we're going to have to look at in the future anyway. So in this case, I think that we can see the advantage of participating in agreement with the developer so that we can go ahead and get this taken care of in a cost-effective, timely, and proactive way. So that's why we decided to bring it on to city council. Okay. Thank you, Mark. Anybody else? Okay. Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Okay, here we go. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading of this ordinance. Teresa. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Bowman Construction LLC for the installation of a sewer main along a portion of South School Avenue between West South Street and South Archibald Yale Boulevard, with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $37,189.38 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,720. Mark. I move we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senators, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Bauman Construction LLC for the installation of Sewer Main along a portion of South School Avenue between West South Street and South Archibald Yale Boulevard with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $37,189.38 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,720. Okay. Mark. Oh, sorry. Okay. I guess we should get some further information first. Any final comments from council? Everybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Smith. Yes. Petty. Yes. Rodney. Yes. Batch. Yes. Thank you all. Number four, in order to sway competitive bidding, accept the quote. any amount of $31,503.35 plus taxes from Riggs Power Systems for the replacement of an exhaust catalyst on the backup generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment kit. Whereas recent inspections found the diesel oxidation catalyst in a generator used at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility needs replacement to meet EPA emission standards, and whereas J.A. Riggs Tractor Company, doing business as Riggs Power Systems, is the region's certified Caterpillar dealer and has exclusive experience servicing the Nolan Facilities Caterpillar brand backup power generator. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts the quote of $31,503.35 plus any applicable taxes from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company doing business as Riggs Power Systems for the replacement of an exhaust catalyst on the backup generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility, Section 2, at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this resolution, or this ordinance, excuse me. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. The Nolens facilities 2000 kilowatt caterpillar brand generator is for emergency power and we use it for load shedding management during the summer season. The recent inspections found that the generator's diesel oxidation, basically its catalytic converter, was in need of replacement to meet the EPA emission standards. It did fail its test. The catalyst system was initially installed in about 2013 as kind of an aftermarket item when the EPA did ratchet down a little bit on their emission standards. This will get us back in compliance and get us ready to go before the load-sharing season starts in June. We do recommend the approval of the purchase and installation of the exhaust catalyst and completion of the EPA emissions testing after it's installed for the generator, performed by Riggs Power Systems in the amount of $31,503.35 plus sales tax and approval of the budget This issue was discussed at the April 9th Water and Sewerage and Solid Waste Committee with the unanimous vote to send it to the full council for approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Mark, do you have any comments? Again, this is a necessary repair. We've got to stay in compliance with the air quality standards. So it has to be done, you know, so there wasn't a lot of discussion. This is the supplier of the part, so it's that easy. It is that easy, isn't it? All right. Any other questions? I'm going to make a motion. Okay, I got it. Let me take some public comment. All right. We have a public comment on this. Okay. I will write it back to the council, Mark. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $31,503.35 plus applicable taxes from Riggs Power Systems for the replacement of an exhaust catalyst on the backup generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading in the rules. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second. Second. Go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Third. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $31,503.35 plus applicable taxes from Riggs Power Systems for the replacement of an exhaust catalyst on the backup generator at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve a budget adjustment. Okay, final comments from the council. Mark? Okay, any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Sir? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number five. An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6553 for approximately .22 acres located in 510 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. I'm sorry. Um... Garn mayor and council. This is a one lot rezoning request four lots north of MLK and College Avenue it is The surrounding zoning is neighborhood conservation as you can see the blue is a downtown general district Which is along MLK the adopted plan that governs this area is the Walker park master plan And the neighborhood conservation district was established with that plan. The illustrative plan that goes with it shows preservation of existing buildings. This is now a vacant parcel, so that's a mute point. Neighborhood conservation area along MLK was rezoned to downtown general as I showed you earlier. The issue I think is whether or not this request is in conformance with the Walker Park Plan. The applicant has submitted a revised request for your consideration, for you to consider RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. and staff feels that it is in substantial conformance with the plan and would recommend approval of the revised request. Applicant is here and I'm available for questions. Okay, now this is the one that Council Member Marsh wanted to hold, am I correct? Okay, but is the applicant here and then I'll approach the council. Hi, thank you. Zara Nederman here. We submitted originally for Neighborhood Services Limited. A couple days prior to the Planning Commission meeting, we got word back from staff that they were not in support of Neighborhood Services. And given the short amount of time, we looked at the possibility of RIU. Instead, as you saw, the Planning Commission supported RIU neighborhood services limited, but we felt that Or you might be more appropriate for what we're looking to do and that if the staff supported that then that would work well for us, so we want to Switch it to that available for questions, so your request now you want to change the ordinance to our I use that's correct So What discussion do we have on that? I know that Sarah wanted to hold it. So to be clear, Planning Commission approved what zoning? Neighborhood Services Limited. Staff recommended RIU. Staff had recommended denial of the Neighborhood Services Limited, and after Planning Commission acted and it was already on your agenda... The applicant suggested that they would be willing to accept the R.I.U. We do feel that it is in substantial conformance with the Walker Park Plan. Okay. Thank you. And I will say that the normal policy is that I will draft the ordinance as requested by the applicant, whether or not planning or planning commission has approved. It's just that the change at heart did not occur early enough for me to draft the ordinance. So I would request that you go ahead and amend it to what the applicant really wants, and then you can decide whether you should do anything else. And this would just be amending the ordinance to see whether you're going to do any rezoning or not. This doesn't commit you to do the rezoning, but it really ought to be what the applicant wants and you vote that up or down. So I'd recommend that you amend it to RIU instead of Neighborhood Services Limited. Can we make that move before public comment? I think I would... I think you can make that and have a motion in a second, and then we'll take some public comments to see if they're amenable to it out in public before we probably vote. Or I can ask for public comment now on an RIU and see how it floats. But if you're going to change the zoning, I agree with Sarah, you probably would certainly want to hold it for two weeks to everybody accustomed to what we're fixing to do here. That would just be my... but you can change it. Okay. I definitely agree that we hopefully won't vote tonight, but let's go ahead and make the motion to amend our RIU. Okay. Senator? Second. All righty. What discussion do we have? If there's anybody out there that would like to make some public comment on it changing to an RIU, I want to certainly give them a chance to speak tonight on this particular issue. And then we'll take public comment in two weeks. It doesn't pass tonight. We'll public comment on that. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have an amendment to change the ordinance to RIU. And, Senator, would you please call the roll? Sir? Yes. Yes. Mr. Harris? Yes. Mr. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Fetch? Yes. Yes. And mayor just for the public's help. I know the City Council knows about residential intermediate urban, but why don't you explain? What that means to so the public what's the difference between that and what the applicant originally requested the primary difference is the use group 12a which allows office uses and retail uses is not allowed in the Riu as a permitted use and So, RIU is a residential district that allows single-family, duplex, triplex, fourplex. The setbacks are essentially the same. Okay. Matthew. Yeah. I appreciate that we explained that on the record. And, of course, I'm going to vote for the amendment at the applicant's request that But I do find it perplexing that there was a determination about neighborhood services limited. It was incompatible I just pulled up an aerial map and within less than a block There's a realty office, which was formerly a pottery studio There's a general store which has been vacant for more than 20 years, but predates many of the houses in the neighborhood there's a church at the corner and And of course the old Jefferson Center, and that's all within one block. Within two blocks we have more artist studios, a remnant gas station, a remnant mechanic shop, and a church that has been converted into a non-profit performing arts studio. And of course within three blocks we also have the senior center. but uh i'm i find that conclusion about neighborhood services limited that it's uh incompatible with the rest of the neighborhood i'm questionable because that ordinance which was written by staff is designed precisely to allow the kinds of uses that are already present in the neighborhood okay all right well i guess we will hold it right here for two weeks i mean garner unless you want to weigh in on maybe i have it okay sure Okay, whenever I look at this, I certainly understand the point of view that it looks like it's compatible. But just as in some previous rezoning issues that we've looked at, there was a lot of activity in the Walker Park plan, and the neighbors in that area worked very hard along with staff and along with other people in the community. I don't live in that area, but I did participate in the walk-in plan. And so from my point of view, we have to recognize that there was a process, and it was approved by city council, and it is published, to have a neighborhood conservation plan. The neighbors in this area wanted to conserve the elements of their neighborhood. And in recognizing this and approving the Walker plan, then we would not rezone. So I'm not saying how I'm voting one way or the other, but I do have a propensity to support a plan that was developed before. primarily by the neighborhood so that they could live in the neighborhood that they wish to live in. And that takes a lot of precedent in my determination. And I hope that the neighbors will speak up and be sure to be heard because it will take a united voice. Otherwise, maybe it isn't that important. So... I appreciate all the people that have contacted me to date, and your voice is heard, and we'll see how we can move along. Thanks. All right. Thank you, Mark. Anybody else? Okay, let's move along to number six then. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 19-6555 for approximately .16 acres located at 1924 South Ashwood Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units director to RIU residential intermediate urban. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property zone on the map, Exhibit 8. and the legal description of Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban, Section 2. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are to hear by a man's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect zoning change provided in Section 1. Ron. Yes, Mayor. This rezoning request is located on the east side of Ashwood Avenue between Sligo and Arrowhead Street. It's one lot rezoning request. The surrounding zoning is RM24 to the south and to the east and RSF4 to the north and across the street, across Ashwood. The adopted plan for this area is a Fit Junction Plan, which was adopted in 2008. The illustrative plan shows preservation of the existing building. The issues that were identified with this request is our setbacks and allowed uses in relationship to the existing neighborhood. And of course, the Fayette Junction plan, there were rezonings associated with this neighborhood plan before it was adopted and afterwards. And these lines were established to implement the plan. The issue of setbacks can be illustrated by this slide. 1924 South Ashwood is the house with the station wagon in front of it. The existing setback or the existing right-of-way line is roughly the red line. It is presently a 40-foot right-of-way line. That does not establish the build to line. It would actually be five feet, approximately five feet inside of this. But as you can see, the zero to 25 setback that would be allowed in the proposed RIU zoning district does not, is not compatible with the established setback in this neighborhood. And I think that. For those who were able to make the tour yesterday, you saw that in person. The Planning Commission did not recommend the original application, but they recommended a substitute residential intermediate urban, and the applicant concurred with that. Staff did not recommend the original recommendation, and we don't support the revised application. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. The applicant, I believe, is present. The applicant would like to speak. Council. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. I don't have a lot to say, but I can just share a little bit of the information of why I initially made the request. As mentioned, I actually originally requested the RMF 24 zoning because, to me, that seemed closer and similar to what was in the neighborhood. Excuse me. So I recently purchased the property. The house that is there now is not habitable, and due to significant foundation damage, it's not really feasible to repair it. And so that – as I looked at construction costs, really the only feasible way to build new construction and therefore provide more housing is to do it with a multifamily situation, ideally a duplex or something like that. So – I know I have other properties in the area. I know that there's a need for smaller units for folks, whether it be students or whatever the case in that area. So I feel like there's a need there. I thought the RMF 24 zoning fit, but I feel like this could as well. I understand the concerns with the setbacks. I'm not an expert on that, but I'm going to be able to offer any questions. What questions do we have for the applicant? What is his name? I'm sorry. I can't hear his name. I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Stephen Brooks. That's right. All right. Okay. Summary. Yeah, so I did have a question for Steven. So you said, what I understood is you said you were flexible to the, that you didn't really know about the setback situation. And now that you're made aware of it, that's something you're more flexible to find a zoning that would allow a better setback and something that would fit in there. Yes, I originally applied for RMF 24 just due to the significant other properties in the area that had that. And it was the planning commission that recommended the RIU zoning. So that was why we ended up going with that one. Okay, thank you. Okay. Gordon, what's the width of the lot? I believe it's right at 50 feet. And from the front of it to the back, how big is it? What did you say the lot was? 140 perhaps. All right. All right. We'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute limit. Unless the council has questions for you or by a motion and a second, the majority of the council can give you more time. We will discuss how much more time. Keep the comments to the chair, which would be me. Please stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic. I would like to have – we would like to have your name addressed. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Sue Madison. I live at 573 Rockcliff in Highland Park. So I do not live in this neighborhood, but you should know that my husband and I have owned 11 houses in this neighborhood. And it's probably my favorite neighborhood in all of Fayetteville. In fact, we're saving a vacant lot because I want to live down there so badly. One of the things that characterizes this neighborhood that Red Arrow was built in the 60s is that there are longtime residents living there, including people that bought the houses new. Just to show you an example of the vitality of this neighborhood, there are new residents, new owner-occupied folks in this neighborhood as well. So we have longtime owners as well as recent owners and residents Thanks to a few landlords like myself, we do have some tenants in the neighborhood. But I'm very respectful of the neighborhood. I won't rent to anybody with more than three adults or more than two cars. I'd like to point out that there's been recent construction in this neighborhood. Now, my houses are actually in Red Arrow subdivision, and this is the Meadowvale subdivision, but we consider ourselves to be all one neighborhood. Next door to this house is a relatively new brick house that is a single-family house. Down at the corner of East Custer and Arrowhead, there is a brand-new house, a very nice house that a local doctor and his wife have built. In this area that I'm speaking about, between Ashwood all the way to West Custer, there is no other multifamily, high-density building. There are two duplexes because once upon a time in an R2 neighborhood, a few duplexes were used by right. And I've owned in two different neighborhoods like that, and it's very compatible with the neighborhood. But as Mr. Garner said, the setback is very, very concerning there, as well as the possible height. The covenants for Red Arrow restrict construction to one story and no more than one unit per lot. This would allow... several stories and if you've been to the parksdale neighborhood since that area went through some new construction it is jarring when you have the closeness to the street that they had as well as the heights and let me just point out that that construction didn't necessarily result in more affordable housing because one of those is an airbnb house our neighborhood's We're lucky to have streets with curbs. We don't have sidewalks. Ashwood itself doesn't even have curbs. It's a very, very narrow street. The setback is a huge concern there because it will put the residents very close to the street. Because we don't have sidewalks, there are often children playing in the streets. And it is safe for them to do so. They ride their bicycles. My grandson loves to visit there because it's such an easy place to play with other children. I would ask you to please preserve the integrity and the current use for the people that are still invested in that neighborhood and still new people investing and keep this neighborhood as it is. And I'd be happy to answer any questions, but let me just ask the group of dedicated neighbors who are here to raise their hands about this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Yes. Everybody have five minutes time limit. I don't think I said that for me first. Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Caitlin Cooper. I'm a recently new homeowner on Arrowhead Street. I've actually rented a house for three years before purchasing it. I live at 1907 West Arrowhead. I agree with everything that Sue has just stated. I do think that this is definitely out of character with the rest of the neighborhood. As you can see by my neighbors behind me, we are all a very well close-knit community. We take care of each other. I do find many concerns with the height and how close this property is to the road. I run every morning. It is concerning. There are lots of kids in the street at all times. It scares me to think that there could be a complex with unlimited height so close to the road. And it also poses the question of where will these people park? Parking is already an issue in our neighborhood. Just like Sue said, she only rents to people with two vehicles. So I do urge the council to consider that when making their vote. Does anybody have any questions for me? Any questions? Thank you. Governor, do you have a picture of the width of that street in front of that house? Anyone else like to address us on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Thank you. Yes, I just want to thank the neighbors for coming out to let us know how you feel on it. And it really was great to speak to many of you yesterday at the on-site tour. And your concerns were also my concerns. I feel like it's a very narrow lot. And the house next door and the house on both sides are very... single family setback, you know, and there are some duplexes on the other side of the road, on the back side, and I can see where, you know, for the applicant that could feel like, you know, to put that there could help because we are wanting density and fill. I just feel like that spot is so narrow, so I just feel like we need to... Keep it as a single family or potentially I could, I could possibly see a compromise of a duplex that could look like a single family home with a good setback, but make sure there's plenty of parking because that's, Yeah, with no curb and no sidewalk, I just feel like it's very, you know, it will be treacherous for people parking and getting stuck in the ditch. So I'll definitely not be supporting the up zone. Okay. All right. But anyway, that street's probably about – what's the width of that street? 20, 22 feet? Yeah. That's what I thought. Okay. And so the problem that I see, and I'm very familiar with the area, when they say not in my backyard, it's in my backyard. So everybody just needs to know that. It's just across the street from where I live. But if you go and the council members that took that, you can see where you will have to go down an alley and then come into the backside of that property. And there's not a – it's like 40 feet, and it would be sandwiched in between two houses. Now – That whole area, and I will be the first to say this, is pretty much rental property all the way around me. I think there might be one. But they're all what we're looking at. When you look at it, we keep talking about scalability and appropriate infill, and we keep looking at heights. And so it is a concern, but it's an RSF4. It could be three stories, but it will not really fit on that lot. It just simply doesn't fit. There's not enough space from the front to the back. There's not enough space in between those houses. They're all small houses in there. My house, if we could get a view of the street, which I guess we're not going to see that, but you can kind of see the street, how wide it is, and it is very concerning. The parking is a concern. There have to be improvements on an alleyway in behind there. So... I do have some concerns, and it's not because it's where I live, but I would have concerns about this if it was anywhere else. So that being said, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Governor, right now with it being zoned as an RSF4, the applicant could build a duplex. Is that correct? With a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission, yes. Okay. Okay. All right, thank you. It's not a permitted use. It's conditional use. It's conditional use. So that avenue is available? Yes, it is. That would work. Thank you. I think we're getting into the height issue in that particular spot. I don't think anybody's concerned so much about the rental end of it, but it's the height of the building. I may sound like a broken record here, but, again, I participated in the Fayette Junction plan and – Again, as with the Walker Plan, neighbors participated and people throughout the community participated. And this actually happened after the Walker Park Plan, so a lot of us had experienced the other one. And again, the neighbors came out and helped a neighborhood preservation plan that was approved by city council. And now that the neighbors live there, I think that they would anticipate that... The plan that they worked hard on and was approved by city council would be respected. I do have a concern about a return on investment on this property, but I do think that there can be a return on the investment with the current zoning. I tried to, you know, when I look at it, to me there's nothing more that has more immediate impact and nothing has more long-term impact than when you rezone property. And we've done a lot of rezoning recently, and I've lived and learned over the last eight years that, you can never anticipate what is going to be built on the property. You have to look at what comes with the zoning and consider how does that zoning impact this specific piece of property. So we know the width, we know the length, we know the infrastructure as far as the setbacks are going to be very important in this property. And so I'm going to consider all of that as we move forward – And as you know, I do sound like a broken record, if a neighborhood has worked hard on a plan, and we only have two neighborhood plans, well, there's the downtown plan, so I guess that's three. But I think that we have to respect that. If the neighbors want to change that plan, I think they need to request the change. So I've got a lot to look at here. I do understand the return on investment, but at the same time, This is a neighborhood, and this neighborhood is very tight. It's a very modest neighborhood, and the voice must be heard of every person in this city regardless of where they are in the type of neighborhood that they live in. And I think if you live in a modest neighborhood that has neighbors that are like your family, and that's what we see down there, then... I'm going to respect that. I'm going to respect that a lot. So that's what I'm thinking as we move forward. Okay. Kyle. Thank you, Mayor. I apologize for not making it to the tour yesterday, but this one – It sounds like we're hearing a lot of the same concerns we hear over and over and over. The height could go out of scale with the neighborhood. The setbacks would be out of scale with what's there now. And I would bring up again that we're looking at one lot in a bigger area that – It just it sounds like we're not quite ready to to address a situation like this on this individual lot scale I think we've we've got to find a way to make our our height requirements contextual We've got to find a way to make our setback requirements contextual so that we can phase in Things to establish neighborhoods without being Quite as abrupt as what we've seen other places Yeah If I were looking at the entire block at the broader area, it's weird because it's sitting right next to RMF 24 that's not built that way and I'm not sure that that's the right zoning for the master plan and what it shows either. There's probably some other work we need to do in this area to honor the master plan and the work that neighbors did on that. So I'm not entirely sure on this one, but I'm definitely hesitant for a lot of those reasons. I'm just not sure that we have all the building blocks in place that we need to make a change like this, but I hope that as we get closer to revising the 2040 plan that we're gonna look at some of those things and get the toolbox in order so that we can be a little more responsive to these. Okay, so. What's the – so the current max stories is three, correct? That's correct. And what would it be under RAU? Both the RMF24 and the RAU have a step – back height limitation. It allows construction on the zero to 25 foot. It's a build two line. If you build zero to 10, you're allowed two stories. And then 10 to 15, I believe, is three. And then it actually goes, yeah, it goes three after 10. So it's got to step up. Both those districts do. So the max is three? I believe it actually allows an additional step up under the RM24, but not the RIU. The maximum is three stories at an RIU. Okay. So I don't feel like we're arguing about height because height, the three stories would be allowed under either case. That would be true. So, okay. That's all I had. Okay. Maxon? Thank you mayor. I wanted to double check the answer to the question about whether or not a duplex could be built today It caught my attention because the mayor's question earlier about how wide the lot was The answer was about 50 feet and that looks like about correct when I look at it on the map but then when I look at RSF for a minimum lot width for a single family dwelling is 70 feet and for a two-family dwelling is 80 feet and It looks today like the lot is actually non-conforming with RSF4 on that basis. And I'm curious if staff has an opinion about which zoning designation would be best to bring this lot into conformity. I'll talk to Garner about that. I'm sorry, I should... Go ahead, Mark. It's a non-conforming lot with the use is conforming. It is true that in order to approve a duplex, the Planning Commission would have to vary the lot widths. Is that not a Board of Adjustments variance? I believe it is, yes. Which is – I know we have so many commissions it can be hard to keep track – The threshold to grant a variance for the Board of Adjustments is more stringent than the threshold for the Planning Commission to grant a variance, and a hardship has to be demonstrated. I'm confused why we don't have a recommendation for a zoning district that complies with uh that that that brings us a lot into compliance with its with its lot width standards it's clear from looking at the lot uh width of this parcel and its parcels to the north and south that rs4 was broad brushed over the top of these parcels without regard for their historic lot widths These lot widths are different than the lot widths on Arrowhead Street, which are in compliance with RSF4 lot width standards. It seems to me, ignoring the question about whether or not RIU is an appropriate zone, it's clear that RSF4 does not reflect what is actually constructed today. That's a good point. Yeah, right. My neighborhood, there's a lot of different ball game. We have big lots. That's all correct, but that house could be replaced without an area. The house could be replaced. I was going to have a question. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. Now I've gotten involved. Mark. I'm sorry. No, no, no. Go ahead. Thank you. I do understand the house could be replaced. However, the applicant stated in... desire to explore construction of a duplex and that's what fellow council members question was about And today to construct a duplex Not only will a conditional use permit be required from the Planning Commission But also a variance from the Board of Adjustments and a separate application and second procedure with a higher standard Would be required from the Board of Adjustments and Based on my experience, meeting that standard would be impossible in RSS-4 because there's no apparent hardship with respect to the property unless you count, I guess, a kind of administrative contamination with the zoning designation that is non-compliant by default. I think what you said is correct, but there's another option here. Council last year approved a more lenient ADU ordinance, which would allow a replacement single family plus one or two accessory dwelling units, which actually might fit very well off that alley. Okay. Mark? Well, I was going to mention that possibility that was just mentioned because we talked about it when we were walking the lot. That is a possibility right now to have a single family home and two auxiliary dwelling units. And if you look at the makeup of the neighborhood, probably it could be ideal. And I also want to get a clarification on the height. It can be... And the current use, the setback, is 5 feet or 10 feet? Under the RSF 4? Uh-huh. 15 feet. 15 feet. Okay, well, that's even. So if you have a three-story building at 15 feet, that's very different, right, than what we could have under the proposed zoning because it could push it out further. It can be zeroed. That is a difference, 0 to 15. And so that's whenever we were there and we were looking at the property on the tour, the brick house that's to the side of it that's new would really be dwarfed by... First of all, the setback is going to be very out of place if you pulled it all the way up to the property line. And then the scale of height... Two stories would be probably okay, but three stories is going to be – in that block, it's going to be terribly out of scale because these are modest homes, cottages, bungalows. Cute. No, I have a little house or two like that. And they're really – I think that in this area, we're going to see a demand for these homes that are there because where else are people going? And there is a lot of, I think – I think people will look at rental, buying a rental and turning it into a single-family home if it's affordable. We've seen this in other neighborhoods where they've gone through a cycle of a lot of rented properties. We saw this in Wilson Park, where I live. And then suddenly Wilson Park became more desirable, and a lot of the absentee landlords that had properties began to turning them over to families that once again reestablished a single-family neighborhood. But regardless, even the rented properties here, it's evident they are single families that have made a home. Just because you're a renter doesn't mean you don't have a home in a neighborhood. In fact, the disrespect that we show for renters sometimes when we hear arguments is misplaced. because there are a lot of people that rent and we know that because over 50% of the population in Fayetteville rents. And I don't think over 50% of the people here are bad neighbors. So the height is a concern of mine because of the setbacks. Because in order to get more height, you have to have more setbacks. And the... That has to be brought into the equation when you're looking at redeveloping the property. So that's some things that I was thinking about after we left the tour. These are all valid concerns that also have been brought to my attention by the neighborhoods, which the neighborhood has been very engaged, very considerate, and I certainly appreciate the respectful way that they have approached me and their concerns. Thank you. I just wanted to highlight and comment again that just like the dialogue that you all had about the 2040 master planning process, city plan 2040 that's being talked about today, this topic of height is one of the items that we put on the list for you all to talk about because one of the things I think we have to be careful about, is that we don't come across disingenuous when we ask questions about what is the current height allowed in RSF4, three stories, what is the current height of the new zoning, three stories. We are building them differently. 55% of the units in this city are single unit housing and I will tell you that 55% of our city is not three stories. The bulk of it is being built lower than that. And that doesn't mean it's not going to change, but this whole topic of patterned contextual development is what you all have to address. Because as citizens, when they hear us say that, we're saying you could have three stories today, but the reality of where they're living is it's not built that way. And so when we talk about setback or height, I'm going to steal Councilmember Petty's because he's been trying to educate me over the last two years about pattern zoning. Because I really think that's the discussion that you all have to have. It's about types of neighborhoods that we're building and how they contextually fit. No one wants something that stands out on their own, particularly in a single lot discussion. Okay. which is what we have today. And I think it's important, as we're getting those calls in the mayor's office, that you continue to hear that, that that is what has to be addressed in our 20 plans going forward. We know we want infill, but it's appropriate infill. What is appropriate? Height is a portion of what people are talking about. Setback is a portion, and particularly on a street that's 22 foot wide with no curbs and gutters and no sidewalks. Setback is critical. for a single lot discussion. So I just, I want to say that because every time I watch people, and I'll probably have emails tomorrow morning with people whose hair on their neck stands up and we go, what's the height today? What's the height of what we're talking about? The answer is right, it's both. Yes, they're both three stories, but the reality of it is, is that's not how our environment is built. And I just want to say what we can continue to get in telephone calls in the mayor's office. I hope you will address the pattern so we get what all of you want, but in a context that is appropriate. Okay. Sure. Oh, well, I pushed that button way, way back there in the conversation. So, yeah, I'll bring it back around again. I just had a question that we've kind of bypassed at this point about the ADUs and this particular lot. There is... There is an alley behind it, correct? Yeah. Is that an actual, it's an actual usable alley? It is a planted alley. It would need to be improved. Okay. Yeah. All right. like what would the improvements be um generally hard surfacing but there's an exemption i believe and i would have to check whether this would qualify because i don't remember to do a gravel was it gravel now or something i would have to check to see whether this would qualify okay i guess what i was i was i was going to ask is is like and i'm just thinking out loud here but um With our ADUs, you could rebuild a house that's there now, and you could possibly put a garage in the back with an apartment above the garage. Yes. And that would be acceptable? Yes. Except if you have to resurface an alleyway, and that might not be – that would probably be cost prohibitive. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'm choosing to take the discussion tonight as really encouraging. I wanted to restate one thing that I said earlier. I think I said, you know, ignoring whether or not RIU is the right zone. I'm still very uncomfortable with a vote that preserves RSF4 because it just doesn't reflect what's there today. It looks to me like RSF8 is a pixel-perfect match with the plats that are there historically, and I would just volunteer that I would support that without reservation. Thank you. I also wanted to comment a little bit about height and some of the other comments that I think are important for us to connect the dots with that have been made about renters and about the relative compatibility of duplexes. I think in this neighborhood there are actually some low apartment buildings. discussion tonight is encouraging because what I've heard is that those historic uses, while they're not single family, are generally viewed as compatible because they aren't out of scale. And I think it's really important for us as a council to understand that There's a difference between out of scale in terms of the physical size of the building and how we sometimes talk about scale colloquially or compatibility colloquially when we mean how many units there are. And we've talked a lot about how comparisons in terms of the number of units can be unfair because single-family houses can be very large and have a high number of bedrooms or multi-family units can be small and have lower impacts for the amount of people that live there. They might be more relatively affordable to those of us of more modest incomes. I'm bringing this up because in the past when we have tried to reduce the number of uh amend uh uh the height limits in the city typically those have those attempts have been to lower them and there's been extraordinary um pushback and controversy uh in the community in doing that such that the council has opted not to or has tempered their initial plans and so i wanted to because this is a topic on the table right now i wanted to point out that um You should take our Chief of Staff's comments to heart. Even where the height limits, wherever the height limits are, they're usually not built to. Even in the downtown, where we allow 14-story buildings, there is so much more, even though you might hear in a future conversation from the community, you might hear that it's the City Council's attempt to limit heights that are stifling growth. That is not true. Look today at the downtown. Where we don't max out the height, the height doesn't get maxed out for other reasons. And so I think we should be free to talk about height limits and prevailing setbacks. But I also think if we take up that discussion, and it sounds like we are, that we should be crystal clear with ourselves that we're not going to let it be about height. limiting the number of units that might be in a building so strictly. I don't mean that limits should be abolished, but to limit them as strictly as we are today. This is a great example where we have a broad brush zoning that has made parcels non-conforming. We can fix these things, but but if we if we use it as another way to keep neighborhoods exclusive will have failed ourselves So I think there's something of a grand bargain if we can talk about more flexibility with respect to how buildings are used And more limits on on their physical size and location on the property and I just want to add as we are talking about this we talked about rental units around my house and I've lived there 42 years. There's about 23 rental units all the way around my house, and everybody's gotten along just fine. Folks that rented those properties are as good of citizens as anybody that you're going to find in this city. So we've all lived there, but if this was, we're talking about duplexes or quads or whatever, but it's like... We've all had the rental property all the way around us. Nobody's ever paid any attention to it, and then suddenly we're looking at something that could be three stories high nestled in between two small houses, which I stepped it off, and I got 40 feet across there, but I guess Garner says it's 50. And in the back, if you saw that lot, you've got a house, a little piece of yard, and then another storage shed, and then you've got a fence. So the parking for an R24 will be difficult to put in there. And I don't think the neighborhood's against the applicant because we've had rental property all the way around us all along. Everybody's gotten along, like I said, just fine. But it's the height of this thing. It's not scalable in that area, and it just simply doesn't fit. So that's my two cents worth again. So what do you all want to do? Now we haven't touched it. And, you know, I think what – Kessler and Petty brought up was what would the staff recommend that would work there? I think that's a fair question. It is on your agenda for our IU. The applicant agreed to the Planning Commission's recommendation, and the city attorney wrote the ordinance that way. So you don't need to amend. No, the question, that's not the question. Right, right. It's already, right, right. And I think, Gardner, what was asked, that you all don't agree with the RIU, correct? Yes. So what would work there? Yes. I think the RSF8 is something you might want to take a look at. I think that's a good idea. I think maybe the reason they're answering you with RAU is because What is before it is always what the applicant is requesting unless you all amended to something different or turn this one down And let that other zoning come forward I think if you leave it on first reading perhaps the question to the applicant would be Would they be amenable to RSF 8 into and give you an answer in two weeks? Okay Thank you. I was Make the modest suggestion that Garner just made okay. I So I guess we'll leave it right here. Okay. All right. Two weeks. All right. Okay. All right, number seven. An ordinance to – thank you all for coming out. Number seven, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6572 for approximately 2.16 acres located at 1540 East 15th Street from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to CS Community Services. Ken? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Gordon. Okay. Yes, Mayor and Council, this is a triangular parcel, two acres in size. It's occupied by an existing filling station and convenience store. The surrounding zoning is RMF 24 to the west, C1 to the east, and across 15th Street it is I-2. Adopted plan, City Plan 2030, designates it as city neighborhood area. That implies a mix of non-residential and residential uses, possibly. The issues were that this is a long-established commercial use. In 1982, it was rezoned from RO to C1 with a bill of assurance that restricted the uses of gas stations, convenience stores, and car wash The applicant requested removing that bill of assurance about a year ago and council said, why don't you consider rezoning it to community services instead, which is what this request is. Another issue is that there is a sale pending, eminent. So the applicant is requesting that you consider acting on it tonight. And with that, Planning Commission and staff recommend approval of the request. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. And I think Ms. Martin, the applicant, is present. And would the applicant like to speak to the council? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council. My name is Amy Martin. I'm here on behalf of the applicant. As Mr. Stoll said, this matter was before the council about a year ago. My client was attempting to have the bill of insurance removed. i wasn't here at that time but i understand councilwoman marsh was concerned about this property reverting back to c1 and suggested a more modern zoning ordinance that's why we're here today seeking to rezone this property as community services my client has until tomorrow to clear title on this property in order for the property to close so we are requesting that the council act tonight so that she can proceed with the closing tomorrow i'm happy to answer any questions about the process of the property Well, there you are. What questions do we have for the app? Okay. Do we have any public comment on that? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're very welcome. Matthew. Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Do we have a second? Second. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Second, would you please call the vote? We've got to get the seconder in there. That's good. Okay. Yes. yes yes yes yes yes yes and your nits reason that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 19-65 72 or approximately 2.16 acres located at 1540 East 15th Street from c1 neighborhood commercial to CS community services I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading second yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance reason on that property described and rezoning petition RG and 19-65 72 for approximately 2.16 acres located 1540 East 15th Street from c1 neighborhood commercial to CS community services okay council Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number eight, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 19-6573 for approximately 0.93 acres located at 509 West Prairie Street from DG Downtown General to MSC Main Street Center. Kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A. and the legal description of the exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from DG Downtown General to MSC Main Street Center. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville also hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Carl. Yes, Mayor. This parcel is located at Prairie and Gregg. It is in a historically industrial area that is rapidly redeveloping for residential mixed uses of course the Razorback Greenway is immediately on the east side the surrounding zoning is Main Street Center already on the south and east it is downtown general to the west and It is actually downtown general to the north. That has been recently changed since this map was produced. It is in the downtown master plan area, and it's in the mill district. You can see the illustrative plan that was put together basically is in conformance with the building's locations of that plan. The issue here is that the applicant is proposing outdoor performance outdoor music venue which is use group 35 it's not a permitted use anywhere in Fayetteville zoning ordinance it is a conditional use that can be approved by the Planning Commission in the proposed district Planning Commission and staff recommend approval the application as submitted I'd be happy to answer any question I believe miss Lee the applicant is present Okay. Yes. Actually, I'll be speaking on behalf. My name is Jason Wright with Moda Studio. We're representing Ms. Lee. There's no real clear development strategy or plan just yet for the property. The move to Main Street Central is to simply offer more options for development for our clients. And at this time, this idea of live music, where it's been discussed in what form, what times, what actually where that goes has not been formalized. That would be, of course, articulated in the CUP application of which has not been submitted yet. So this is more of a formality at this point for us to be able to look at other options for the property. So that's all I have. If you have any questions, I'm happy to address them. What questions do we have? I see Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'm going to recuse from the discussion of the vote because I have... ownership interest on property within about 100 feet of this and that will be directly affected by the decision okay all right thank you all right what questions do we have for the applicant okay what public comment do we have on this okay i'll bring back to the council mark um this is very much in compliance with the downtown master plan that we have approved and again broken record mark I do think if there's a master plan, it needs to be utilized. If it needs to be changed, then we need to change it. But in this case, I think that this is right in line. Teresa. Thank you. Thank you. Garner, under this proposed rezoning, you know, that's right by the trail. I mean, that property, I just bypassed there this afternoon, as a matter of fact. Would they be allowed to put a fence up or anything like that under either of these zoning regimes? Yes, they would be. So that kind of brings us back to this discussion that we really might need to have about a trailside ordinance at some point in time. Because that's really a great area down there, and I think it would be a shame to have it sort of blocked off or inaccessible for people on the trail. Yeah. If it went back to the Planning Commission or this conditional use, could those kinds of conditions be placed on there? Yes, they could as a conditional use. Now, actually the existing building is between the trail and the interior space, which I understand some time ago had been used for live music. Okay, thank you. Okay, Sarah. Yes, I have a question for Varner about – If this is rezoned, what type of, under this type of zoning, since it's on the street, what type of parking would it, would it have any parking on the street? Would there be the ability to park on the street? Because... Down closer to school, there's street parking, but across the street where our house is built, there is no parking, and we're all right on the side of the trail there. And when this property is developed across the street from this, I'm trying to think in terms of how all this is going to work around that trail at some point in time. And maybe jumping the gun on this anyway. Parking is not dependent on the district. It's identical between these districts. We do not require parking for non-residential uses in Fayetteville. We do have a parking cap for non-residential uses. We do require parking for residential uses, one per bedroom. okay you're not changing anything about the parking by changing this district yeah but there is there's street parking up ahead of it and there's no parking across the street right now but there's also no curb across the street either so people park on the street so thank you okay so Yes, thank you, Mayor. So I was able to go and look at the property, and one of the things I really like about it in terms of supporting this ordinance is it's part of the Cultural Arts District, and it kind of makes kind of the, I guess that would be the southern foot of the Cultural Arts District. uh... for people are tourist to come and have a destination uh... and it is really quite an ideal space for uh... you know kind of exciting lots of live music there parking is question i do have as well uh... and then i also have a question about the sound and and uh... When I was able to visit, I was able to talk to them about, you know, kind of that's a really important thing because of the mill building right there. But one thing, just, Teresa, I want you to know is I did ask about how to engage the trail users. And they're very conscious of wanting to do that. So they're not, they haven't spoken to me about, just absolutely the opposite. No, not a fence, but rather how to... get people to come onto the property and engage with the live music and it has like a lawn feel so i'm excited about that the um i think it's a really great addition to the cultural arts district and i'll i'll be supporting it so mark when i'm looking at this i do think it's a good fit in this area but i have i have the parking concerns i have the noise concerns a little bit of the issues we'd had with a previous property uptown and I don't want to go through that again and that would buy variance a lot a lot there was a variance right jbgb or whatever that is no with with no it was conditional use so it had to be approved by the planning commission okay well I've I've got to think about those concerns whenever we're moving forward because And look at the parking out there, too. It's a mess. I don't care what anyone says. I go out there. It's a mess. It's located on a trail, but I don't see anyone bringing their bikes. I don't know. So I don't want to rush through this tonight, that's for sure. And I want to get a better idea of the resolution of any potential problem before I would feel comfortable moving forward. Well, all righty. So... Okay, I guess I'm gonna ask a similar question as before We're talking about parking. How different is the parking in the two different zones? The requirements are the same between these two districts. Okay, and then What you can actually build in the two zones as far as volume. Are they different? Not nuts. No, they're not. Okay. Thank you. They're very similar districts and The requested district does allow a use group 35 and maybe a few other additional use groups that downtown general doesn't. But both districts are commercial and residential districts, mixed-use districts. All right. Thank you. Okay. I think the... The biggest difference I see between the two zones is that for downtown general noise control, it's treated as a residential zone and Main Street Center is treated as a commercial zone. So I think making sure we have all of our noise considerations figured out is a good step. And I think I asked a vaguer version of this at agenda session, so I'm going to try and be real specific here. Would the... Owners of the housing Sort of diagonally across prairie and the trail would they have received notification about this? Yes property owners, so just the one lot on the corner not the five clustered there together on the street. I'm still trying to make sure I understand how that works. Our notification requirements reach across the street. So where you see a public right of way, the land that's across the public right of way is notified. Okay, so for example, Weston Prairie, there's our outdated satellite image here kind of has a vacant construction zone where I think there's two, maybe three houses now. Would the ones that show in our picture here, the three houses there, would they have received notification? I don't believe they are notified. Okay. I think I asked about renters at agenda. I just wanted to make sure we were clear that we have some... Since we're looking at areas of increased density, we have a lot of residential units here, but unless they have gone through this direction and seen the signs, might not have received notification that very near them is something looking to change their noise control classification. Okay. I take it we're not really going to rush right on through this one tonight. Did I take public comment? Does anybody remember? No. Does anyone would like to address this from the public on this? I'll take it now. Yes, ma'am. Okay, I'm going to bring it back. I assume you all want to leave this on the first or second reading or something along that line. Yep. Okay, let's leave this one right where it is. Okay, number nine. Okay, Matthew. Okay, number nine. An ordinance to approve vacation 19-6575 will probably locate it 2090 West Henson Hill to vacate a portion of the utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And section three, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. Okay. Yeah, Mayor and Council, this is a rapidly developing residential area. It is north of Stone between Sang Avenue and Crossover. It is actually in this location. Additional development has occurred since this photograph was taken. Okay. It's actually a small vacation request utility vacation general utilities and no issues were identified the respondent agencies didn't need this particular utility Eastmont and Planning Commission staff recommend approval I believe the applicant is here if you have questions for the applicant The applicant would like to address the council Andy Hooper Bates & Associates and I'll answer any questions you guys might have Any questions for the applicant? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Which wishes the council. All right. Sloan. Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Cobb. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Son, would you please call the roll? Turf. Yes. Smith. Yes. Harris. Yes. Yes. Yes. Smoggy. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 19-6575 for property located at 2090 West Henson Hill to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Sloan. I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Carter. Yes. Smith. Yes. McCarran. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. yes and ordinance approved vac 19-65 75 were properly located at 2090 West Henson Hill to vacate a portion of a utility easement yes yes yes yes yes The ordinance approved vacation 19-6571 property located at 1248 East Pump Station Road to vacate a portion of the utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Pardon? Mayor, this request is north of Pump Station Road between Morningside and Armstrong. It is in the Fayetteville Industrial Park west. It's an extent of utility easement. As shown on the map here, this is a more detailed drawing of the easement. None of the responding agencies identified a need for this utility easement. There were no issues identified, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval of the vacation as requested with conditions. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant is present if you have questions for him. Is the applicant here? Jeremy Williams, the applicant, just was notified today that the meeting was tonight. The Planning Commission told me that you guys would let me know. I wished it was more than just a few hours before the meeting. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. What questions do we have for them? Okay. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? See, now bring it back to the council. All right. Okay. Sloan. I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. And so... Anybody have a second? Oh, son. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Son, please call the roll. Sir. Yes. Sam. Yes. Tara. Yes. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Rogan. Yes. Fetch. Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 19-6571 for property located at 1248 East Pump Station Road to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Okay, slow. I move to spend and go to third final reading. second yeah the motion is second go third and final reading yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and your nests approved the AC 19-65 71 for property located at 1248 East pump station road to vacate a portion of a utility easement any final comments from the council on this Question for Garner that just caught looking at the maps here the GIS maps show a utility easement that looks like it straddles a property line and Maybe a little wider than the part where vacating here We getting rid of the whole thing or just just like a half strip the hash part of it on the east side Okay, so there would still be a small remnant of Easement left over when we're done. I believe so. Mr. Williams can I clarify that. Yes, it is just the west portion, not the east portion. The neighbor does not have any issues with that. They didn't want to submit the paperwork to Revacate it they don't have any issue or any plans to use it. It was easement that was kind of developed when the Subdivision was made just put easements all around every lot So I think that's like 15 foot that's going to be on the it's on the neighbor side that will stay They want to vacate it. That's up to them Thanks, but that's kind of what it looked like happened. I just wanted to be clear. Thanks, okay, so Any other comments and bring back to the council any final comments from the council? So I'm just please call the roll Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Thank you all number 11 in order to prove vacation 19-65 74 property located at 1270 and 12 course can drive vacate a portion of a utility easement kit and Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. If the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR hereby vacates a portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the planning Department's memo Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit age of the planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Yeah, Mayor and Council, this is also an area that is rapidly developing. It is just west of Rupo and north of Weddington. The portion that is requested for vacation is cross-hatched here on this drawing. and nobody identified a need for this utility easement and staff and planning commission recommend approval okay I believe mr. Hooper is here yes yes any Hooper base associates I got nothing to ask or add but answer any questions you might have any public comment on this so now to bring back to the council Kyle. Next motion is to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Swann. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Third. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve BAC 19-6574 for property located at 1270 and 1272 North Corsica Drive to vacate a portion of the utility easement. I motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. So long. Second. We have a motion to second. We'll go to the third and final reading. So long. Please call the roll. Sir? Yes. Smith? Yes. Patera? Yes. Kinn? Yes. Petty? Yes. Smuggler? Yes. Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 19-6574 for property located at 1270 and 1272 North Corsica Drive to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Any final comments from the council? So, please call the roll. Sir? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 12, in order to amend Article 22 of Arts Council in Chapter 33, Department of Sports Commissions and Authorities of the City Code to provide that one member of the Arts Council shall be a City Council member appointed by the Mayor. good evening mayor yeah be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council of the city of favor arcs i hereby repeal section 33.340 arts council established membership and article 22 arts council and an actual replacement section 33.340 as follows quote the establishment of the fable arts council by resolution number 60-07 is affirmed by this code section The Arts Council shall have nine voting members as follows. A, one member shall be a City Council member appointed by the Mayor at the beginning of each calendar year. B, eight members shall be appointed by the City Council and serve three-year staggered terms. These eight members shall be arts professionals or citizens of diverse backgrounds with strong links to the Fayetteville arts and cultural community. At least four members shall be artists working professionally in their field. Subsection C, the nine members of the Arts Council serving at the time of adoption of this ordinance shall continue to serve until the end of their terms. The initial city council member appointment shall occur at the earliest vacancy of a position, whether by resignation or removal of a member or at the end of the member's term. Okay. Okay. Good evening City Council and Mayor. My name is Dee Dee Peters and I work in the Communications Department and I'm assigned to the Arts Council. This is to, like Kit said, change the ordinance and appoint a City Council member to the Arts Council. It would remove one of the Citizens at Large positions. The City Council member would also be a voting member of the Arts Council. I think this will really help bring ideas to the Arts Council and have a better tie with the city of what's going on and the opportunities to include public art in some of the art projects. So, DeeDee, I have a quick question for you. Sorry. Yeah. So in terms of the city council member, what kinds of things do you see for the council to understand more, like from the – I mean, the committee's been around for a long time, and I think there's a big gap there. So can you talk a little bit more about what the city council member can potentially bring to the group? So I think one of the things is when city council members review the budget and see some of the bigger projects coming in that are capital item projects, there might be opportunities to include artwork in those projects. And sometimes they can be, Simple one of the things like if we do build a parking garage or something To include a different way to number the floors, you know, just instead of just a simple You know for three it could be something creative. I Things like that. I might also just add that the council last year during the budget session gave direction for us to develop a process for application for ART funding. And this committee is one that we've talked about helping... that templated processes, grant processes that have been done. In the future, we think it would be beneficial to have a council member there to give direction about feedback. Also, several of our items that have council members are typically committees where they link very tightly to the city's master plans so that they have an advocate or champion to bring items directly to the council. Because obviously as you know the staff works for the mayor and cannot be assigned by a council member to do items. So when council members are on certain committees they may bring those items directly to the council. The arts area is an area that's in our economic development plan as an area for targeted growth much like we have a council member on our energy action. PACE program to help with our energy action implementations. Obviously, it's a full council committee for the waste and recycling plant implementation, water conservation and water quality related items. We have a council committee. So this is an area that's a very tight link that does not currently have someone advocating that. We also added a council member years ago to the active transportation committee because of our commitment to have a stronger focus of that within the total transportation plan and a council member that could advocate to their peers at the transportation committee about those initiatives. So not that you all don't read every committee's recommendations, but sometimes things need to be brought directly to you that maybe aren't assigned as a priority from an administration perspective that you still want to have come forward. Okay, any other questions? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? I'm bringing it back to the council. Yeah, so I do think that having a council member on the Arts Council is going to really show that we prioritize the arts corridor, especially with the arts corridor. So I'm very supportive of this. I know that we've kind of had, it hasn't had, the Arts Council hasn't felt like they could really make a lot of big decisions or they don't really have a budget. But I feel like that link will really help. Give that teeth that committee teeth and it also just shows our creative economy community that we value in a Prioritizing that so this is really important and I'm glad to see this recommendation and I'll be supporting it A little clarification because currently the mission of the Arts Council is to approve public art and Is this going to expand the role of the Arts Commission? It's to approve public art that's donated to the city or projects that come up. Our current Arts Council members really want to do some other things, so I'm not really sure what's on their agenda. But they do want to have more funding and seek opportunities for that. I would say that I think you're going to see a request for a change in duties to come from them. That is also another area where the council member might give guidance about how far is too far, what stays at the council. So we have people who want to appropriate funds. The only people that can do that are the nine of you that are elected. And so there needs to also be some guidance as we redo that. But I do expect, if you watch the dialogue of the recent meetings, that there is a plan to expand the duties. And we do think it's important that there be some boundaries there so we don't end up more than an advisory committee when we have actual ordinances that require certain things to come at the elected official category. I think as chairman of the nominating committee, this has come up a lot to encourage the expansion, recognizing in our economic development plan that we have noted that the creative community is one of the seven integral parts of our development. So I think that this is a good step forward. I was surprised that there wasn't more that might have been included. But after watching the meeting the other night, there's a lot of – that needs to be done because, first of all, we have a re-energized committee, which is nice to see. So we need to be sure to move forward to utilize the skills and the vision that I saw expressed in that meeting. So I move that we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance amend article 22, Arch Council in chapter 33, departments, boards, commissions, and authorities of the city code to provide that one member of the Arch Council shall be a city council member appointed by the mayor. Second. I will be good to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to amend article 22 Arts Council and chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the City Code provide that one member of the Arts Council shall be a City Council member appointed by the mayor okay some please call yes yes yes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Number 13, an ordinance to amend 33.361 composition of Article 24 Town and Gown Advisory Committee of the Federal City Code to add the president of the University of Arkansas Graduate Professional Student Congress as a member. Yes. Whereas the Town and Down Advisory Committee, which was created on July 3rd of 2012 by Ordinance 5511, advises and makes recommendations on a periodic basis to the City Council and the University of Arkansas. And whereas the relationship between the City and University has strengthened through coordination and collaboration on many issues and expanding the committee's scope to addressing community and neighborhood engagement will provide an opportunity for the committee to make an even broader impact. And whereas ordinance number 6001 was passed on October 3, 2017, to reduce the number of committee members, which has increased the committee's efficiency, and amplified the voices of the stakeholder members. And whereas the University of Arkansas Graduate Professional Student Congress... can provide a unique perspective and staff recommends adding the president of that organization as the 13th member of the town and gown advisory committee now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of favorable arkansas section one at the city council of the city of favorable arkansas hereby amend section 33.361 composition of article 24 town and gown advisory committee by changing the first clause from quote 12 voting members to quote 13 voting members Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 33.361, composition of Article 24, Town and County Advisory Committee, by adding a new subsection J as follows. Subsection J, one member shall be the Graduate Professional Student Congress President. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. I believe Kit's whereas clause is pretty much said it all. The Town and Gown Advisory Committee, I've been staffing that committee since I was hired in 2015, and the Town and Gown accomplishes a great deal of Tasks related to collaboration between the city and the University of Arkansas. It's very specific to a boundary of neighborhoods that surround the university and the city. And we look at mutually relevant issues, capital projects, transportation, traffic, infrastructure planning, etc., when the Graduate Professional Student Congress became an entity, then the Chancellor sent a letter and asked if that president of that organization could also be included, and the committee discussed, and I believe we all agreed that that was appropriate. Can I answer any questions? Okay, we'll question the President on this. Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, right back to the Council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Section 33.361, Composition of Article 24, Town and Gown Advisory Committee of the Fayetteville City Code, to add the President of the University of Arkansas Graduate Professional Student Congress as a member. Okay. Swanton? I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Treason? Second that. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Turner? Yes. Smith? Yes. Harris? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance amends section 33.361 composition of article 24 town and gown advisory committee of the Fayetteville city code to add the president of the university of Arkansas graduate professional student Congress as a member. Any final comments to the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you. Wall number 14, in order to amend 166.08, nonconforming access features to require access management improvements upon the expansion or improvements costing greater than 50% of the market value of a property rather than the assessed value. Kip. Whereas requirements for redevelopers of existing buildings, shopping centers, etc. to better conform with the access management regulations by altering driveways, parking lots, etc. should be primarily based upon the increased impact upon the city's street infrastructure needs or the redevelopers' request for new or different street access. And whereas the Unified Development Code currently requires alteration of existing non-conforming access points when the cost of improvements of the property are greater than 50% of the assessed value of the property, which is only 20% of the actual market value of the property as established by the Washington County Assessor's Office. Meaning that the alterations to non-conforming driveways could be required even if the cost of a renovation is only 10% of the property's fair market value. And where our city staff recommends that the threshold for such required improvements be raised to 50% of the market value of the property. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 16608G of the Unified Development Code by repealing Subsection 1B and enacting Replacement 1B as follows, quote, upon expansion or improvements greater than 50% of the property's appraised or market value as established by the Washington County Assessor. Gardner. Yeah, Kit pretty much explained everything about this ordinance. I actually, if you want to read... The existing language and the proposed language, I have it on the screen. I think the important point here is this does not change the City of Fayetteville's access management requirements going forward. Access management is very important to get proper spacing of curb cuts for traffic areas reduction of traffic accidents, as well as providing comfort for bicyclists and pedestrians. We're not proposing to change our access management requirements with this amendment. What we're trying to establish is proportionality. When does somebody who is renovating a building, reinvesting an existing building, bring into question whether they need to change their access? That's the question here. and it is set very, very low at this point. It is 10% of the investment, and a lot of applicants are getting caught. For instance, I think Council Member Kenyon asked me at the agenda session what's coming up. I just pulled the three examples that are in front of the Planning Commission that are on Planning Commission's consent agenda Monday, and they're listed on your screen here. Both, all three are relatively minor changes in investment in the site, but they have to go to the Planning Commission and ask for a variance. This would correct that, and it establishes a clear and objective value that would be used to when we would ask for retrofitting of the access. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have regarding this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. What was everybody going to do? Mark. We suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. in ordinance to amend section 166.08g non-conforming access features to require access management improvements upon the expansion or improvements costing greater than 50 percent of the market value of a property rather than the assessed value mark i mean if we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading oh second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading thunder which please call the road Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Okay. Mark? Nope. Okay. I left over. Okay. Any other final comments? I mean, any final comments? Tracy? I have one final question. So let me make sure I just understand this correctly. So if a business is making an improvement and maybe they don't need to change their access at all, we're still making them go for a variance if the improvement is at least 10% of their assessed value. Is that correct? 50%. Well, I'm just saying as it stands currently. As it currently is, yes. Okay. Okay. Yes. But if there's no improvement that needs to be made, they still have to get a variance? If they're not changing their access, you mean the curb cuts? Mm-hmm. Yes. Okay. Thank you for clarifying. Anything else? So this would only be for non-conforming current uses, right? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. I took a little while to get my head wrapped around that. That was a good idea. Thank you for clarifying stuff. Okay. Any other final comments from council? All right. So I'm going to call it a roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. Well done. What announcements do we have? Mayor, a couple of announcements tonight. A week from this Saturday, April the 27th, we have our third spring ward cleanup. This is a Ward 3 location at Vandergrift Elementary, 2200 North Vandergrift Drive. Please enter from the Mission side and exit to Township. Also the recycling and trash facility which is a site at all of our cleanups. It's from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. and information is on the website regarding what we take. There's only one more left after this one for our students who might be moving out to go home for the summer. So just wanted to make you aware of those last final items coming up. I also might add that tomorrow night from 4.30 to 6.30 at the Owl Creek School Library, which is located at 375 North Ruppel Road, the city is seeking public input for our cycling and other amenities at the new Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain. We will be presenting a master plan for that mountain, and we encourage citizens to do To come out and see this is Centennial Park is a cycling activated part as a part of our purchase With state-of-the-art cyclocross and mountain biking facilities, so we'll be talking about those this park plan information is important to get done in order for us to move forward with the proper constructions for the World Games that will take place in Fayetteville that we have received Also, just want to remind citizens that changes to trash recycling and compost programs and rates begin April the 22nd So if you see your invoices for your monthly bills change or if you have direct withdrawals, you might check those to make sure. Or if you notice the number being slightly different, those rates are also on our website. The information has been published, but that program goes into effect April 22nd. We're also the city's hosting an annual progress in print event celebrating community development in our community and the use of our funds. It's an annual event that highlights a variety of programs funded in Fayetteville by the federal community development block grant program. We encourage citizens to participate. It's Wednesday, April 24th from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Fayetteville Town Center. It's a good chance to get an idea of the kinds of programs that we provide funding for throughout the city. Also, just want to remind, we have been having smart cycling classes for adults. Okay. Those are continuing to take place, so check that out on our website as well so that we have a safe bike riding community as well and for adults that want to get into that program. Mayor, I'd like to take one personal moment here. As the city council knows, the legislature has finally adjourned, not signy-die yet, but pretty close, and there were a number of... fairly dangerous bills that were Proposed by the legislature and I want to thank mayor Jordan chief of staff Don Marr Susan Norton and Tim Nyander who spent many days down there Trying to talk sense to the legislature and often were somewhat successful not totally We have a couple that snuck through But I do want to thank them for their efforts. And, you know, I was aware that they were there because I would go down to the office and they weren't here. They were down fighting it out to the legislature. And I want to thank them for their efforts on behalf of not only the city council but the citizens of Fayetteville. Thank you. It was sort of like the day they were in session. It was sort of like a dog year. Anyway, so anything else? I second what Kit said. Thank you so much for all your efforts with SB 550 and many of the other bills that were before the legislature. So thank you. Thank you all. All right. And we have passed a bond, by the way. Just a little thing. Just a little thing. So I'd throw that in before we adjourned. But thank you all for your efforts on that very much. Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned. That was a great idea.