I'd like to sit, I would like to call the, to order the April 17th, 2018 City Council meeting. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Tenants? Here. Hutch? Here. Latour? Present. Smith? Here. Gray? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddie. Here. Air Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. I would like to recognize tonight Gerald Jordan's journalism class from the University of Arkansas. They will be reporting on the meeting. If you would stand and be recognized, please. Yeah. I can assure you tonight she won't be disappointed. Okay, under the consent agenda. Okay. Number one, approval of the April 3, 2018 City Council meeting. Max, number two, a resolution to approve change order number three of the contract with 81 Construction Group Incorporated in the amount of $134,158.03 to include changes to the access road and construction of a containment berm for the Lake Sequoia Basin 3 access road project. Number three. A resolution pursuant to 39.104 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $13,099.19 to Drew Christie for a water damage claim arising at 1168 Oaks Manor Drive in addition to a previous payment of $2,581.45 to Service Master for Water Damage Mitigation Services. Number four. a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with washington county washington county regarding funding from the gulf coast high intensity drug trafficking area in the amount of 110 718 dollars for the police department to approve a budget adjustment i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda is red adele i may we accept the uh consent agenda mark i will second that We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Jordan? Sorry. I'm here. Still here. All right. Under unfinished business, number one. An ordinance to approve Vacation 1861-20 for property located along Nettleship Street between South Graham Avenue and South Razorback Road. Vacate a portion of the street right away. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Mayor, before that, I think Mr. Stull has a second amendment that maybe needs to be considered by the city council before we read the ordinance. Okay. Garner, what you got? Okay. Or did we need to put it on there first and look at it later? No, it's coming up in a little bit. We did meet with the staff of the university, and we came into an agreement that given the curvature of the road and the site issues, that a 28-foot street cross-section would meet the city's requirements and be appropriate for that location. And it involves a three-foot asphalt paver. The visuals aren't up right now. And a five-foot concrete and a continuous row of street trees. The cross-section is sufficient and tied to the condition that City Attorney put together. The issue is that the street trees along the... bring your attention to condition number five. We would recommend you add five and six to the first four, which the city attorney had included in the packet. And five says street trees be installed along both sides of the street, size and space in accordance with city code. And six says curb and landscape bump outs be installed at pedestrian crossing as approved by the city engineer during construction review. Okay. Okay. So we would actually need a motion to amend the one not that is showing on your screen right now because that's the one that was going to be amended to, but amended to the six conditions which are now before you. I think you have this recommendation from the Planning Department with the six conditions, so those would be the conditions that you would be amending the current ordinance to. Okay. The rationale here is that this is going to be a very high traffic pedestrian area. Both the city staff and the university staff are concerned about getting it right. We reached this agreement. We're just concerned that the amenities of the trees and the bump-outs to create some pedestrian safety be installed properly. Okay. Okay. So we would need a motion to amend to the new six conditions of vacation approval. Okay. Adele? I so move. We have a second. Matthew? Yes, Mayor. I'll second the motion. Okay. The motion is seconded to add the amendments. What discussion do we have on heading five and six? Any discussion on questions or anything? Okay, do we have any public comment on the amendment? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion. Do we have a motion and a second? We do have a motion. Yes, I don't have it on my screen. Oh, yes, I do. Sorry. All right, we have a motion and a second to amend 5 and 6 to the new document. All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. So I'm going to let you please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now mr. Mayor I would suggest I just go ahead and read this since it's been changed that much rather than suspending the rules Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof Which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined the following described Portion of street right away is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and At the City Council, the City of Fable, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a street right away as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Clerk. Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense Number two the vacated portion of nettle ship right away shall be retained as a drainage and utility easement number three the proposed extension of Leroy pond shall be constructed in accordance with the city of Fayetteville specifications as illustrated in the attached exhibit see Number four, the proposed extension of Leroy Pond Drive shall be completed and dedicated to the City of Fayetteville prior to this vacation becoming approval. Number five, street trees will be installed on both sides of the street, sized and spaced according to the City Code. And number six, curb and landscape bump-outs will be installed at pedestrian crossings as approved by City Engineering during construction review. Okay. You already got anything you want to add? No, Mayor. I have a second reading. Is there anyone from the public that would like to address this on this? Okay. I'll bring it back. We're on the second reading right now. And so, Adele? I move we go to the third and final reading. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. So, please call the roll. tenant yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to approve the ac 18-6120 for property located along nettleship street between south graham avenue and south razorback road to vacate a portion of the street right-of-way okay any final comments from the council on this Council Member Marsh asked it's an agenda session about bicycle facilities there and I know there was some concern that the width required for buses wouldn't leave extra room for bike lanes. What other concerns bike accommodations are kind of in the area. Will that primarily be done razorback or just in the lane? How do we anticipate that working? This 28-foot street, it's got a curvature, a continuous curvature. And with the traffic calming measures that we recommended and the university agreed to, that speed will not be high-speed street. It should be a comfortable space for shared use between bicyclists. Admittedly, it could be striped, but if you stripe six feet, you reduce the lane width below city standards. Okay. Anything else? Any final comments? No good? All right. Sunridge Police, Caldwell Road. Kenneth. Yes. Hutch. Yes. Fletcher. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay, number two. An ordinary street zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-6052 for approximately 22.59 acres located east of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation. Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Mayor and council there's considerable interest as you all know in this particular rezoning request It is for a 22 acre parcel. It is east of old Missouri Road Immediately east of the Butterfield school and it is vacant property Looking at city plan 2030 is designated as a residential neighborhood area the the direction of the plan is to allow a wider range of residential building types and increase density as appropriate and Goal number three of course is encouraged traditional town form and then to encourage infill and discourage sprawl so issues that have continuously been discussed as this This application has made its circuitous route back to you. It's the issue of the Rolling Hills Drive extension, which is on the Master Street Plan, will be on agenda item later. Also, the issue of whether the original application met the UDC requirement that, and I quote, proposed change will not conflict with the THE SURROUNDING LAND USES AND THE QUESTION THERE WAS NOT WHETHER STAFF OR THE APPLICANT CAN DETERMINE THAT, BUT WHETHER THE APPLICANT HAD MADE A SUFFICIENT ARGUMENT FOR THAT CONDITION AS REQUIRED BY THE UDC. OTHER ISSUES ARE TREES, IT'S A WOODED AREA, SOIL TYPES, THE SOIL TYPES VARY. SOME OF THEM ARE RELATIVELY STEEP WITH A And a continued issue was neighborhood opposition to the proposed increased density. So the issue of the EDC, is there a conflict between land uses and the proposed zoning? The land uses are a school to the west, assisted living center, duplexes on Far Lane, duplexes on Missouri Road. about three churches or four churches, an office complex, and townhouses or duplexes on Wilkins. So I think given the fact that this site is removed from all those uses, the conclusion has to be reached that there's no conflict between the uses that are allowed in the proposed zoning and the existing land uses. So, what are the changes? The lot width is one area where the Neighborhood Conservation District has different standards. The single-family, the legacy single-family district, which is RSF4, requires 70 feet for single-family, 80 feet for two-family. And the neighborhood conservation district requires 40 feet minimum and 80 feet for two family and 90 feet for three family and four family. Of course, two family and three family and four, these two, three and four family uses are only allowed as a conditional use. The lot area is also different. In the RSF 4 district, it is for one family it's 8,000 square feet, two families 12,000 square feet, and the neighborhood conservation district it is consistently 4,000 square feet. The uses are different also, the conditional uses. RSF 4 allows two-family bioconditional use permit, which has to go to the Planning Commission for approval. The Neighborhood Conservation District allows two-family, three-family, and four-family bioconditional use. And then lastly, the density is also different. The RSF 4 caps it at four units per acre. Typically you don't get that much in typical subdivisions. The neighborhood conservation district caps it at 10 units, and typically we wouldn't expect reaching that cap either. So just a little bit of context about what is 10 units per acre in terms of the standard. A rule of thumb that I've heard in every single community that I've worked with is about seven units per acre on an average is needed. to support efficient transit and many communities describe low density from four units up to 10 units the city of madison wisconsin is the most extreme that i could find it says low density is up to 15 units per acre so this is either low density or medium density in most communities 10 units per acre So, another way of looking at the request is what doesn't change. The permitted uses don't change. The height limitations don't change. The city's soils mitigation requirements don't change. Street standards don't change. Stormwater retention and water quality, tree preservation, and the hilltop overlay district requirements It has been much discussed with this application, but it's not applicable. We have just a few pictures. Sometimes pictures speak volumes. The left side is RSF 4 development. As I mentioned, it's our legacy district. Many, many single-family neighborhoods in Fayetteville are zoned RSF 4. NEIGHBORHOOD CONSERVATION IS NEWER AND THERE ARE FEWER EXAMPLES, BUT THERE IS ONE AT SUMMIT PLACE ON THE RIGHT. THE COTTAGES AT OLD WIRE SUBDIVISION IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE. AND THE BUTTERFILD SUBDIVISION IS RSF 4. CLAVER CREEK, RSF 4. MISSION HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION NC, NEIGHBORHOOD CONSERVATION. And finally, this is an example of an NC use that is under construction that did receive a conditional use permit. So it has received a permit for triplex use, and it's in the Mission Heights subdivision. So with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval as requested, and I'd be happy to entertain any questions. Is the applicant here, would they like to speak to the council? Good evening. Mitch Weigel with Downtown Properties for the applicant. We started this process last summer looking at and talking with staff about how to build a community in accordance with the 2030 plan. And part of that was allowing variable housing types in a walkable community. And the first portion of our process was We rezoned eight acres adjacent to Old Missouri to Neighborhood Services General, which allowed for the development of some community-based businesses, as well as potential increased housing density in that sector to service the neighborhood. The second portion of that, we looked at the RSF-4, which is what the land is currently zoned behind it. and looked about and looked at alternatives with what's going on in the marketplace the nc full or the nc districts that you see the cottage is that old wire lakewood which is out on zion road woodbury all those are attracting new clients and new buyers there's an influx of of desire to have a nice house on a smaller lot, a single-family home on a smaller lot. Not everybody wants a larger lot. So we said, when talking to staff, we said, we can provide this in this neighborhood. We have a balance within this community region of larger single-family homes, smaller single-family homes. We realize that conditional use permits allow for people to do other things, but that's not a process that we're asking for. That would be up to a developer to come in. That by right, we could build single-family homes on 4,000-square-foot lots adjacent to a traditional neighborhood with 8,000-square-foot lots next to an elementary school, next to the trail system to provide a community development within East Fayetteville. We've looked at density very closely and thought about how does that add or what are the possibilities there. One of the possibilities we came up with was a 55 and up neighborhood, single story, empty nesters, no pressure on the elementary school, some smaller homes that would have maybe new family, like the cottages that old wire could go in, and we looked at... just different possibilities to make the area more attractive, and this is what we came up with. We haven't come close to anywhere, some of the density rumors that have been floated. I think that the most we've gotten out of that, by the time you put in your roads, infrastructure, account for the land that we don't think the developer will build on, is about 80 units. So that's what we've gotten. I'd be happy to take any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? I've got a quick one there. Yes. Mitch, you just mentioned 80 units you think might be a best guess. If you had to develop it as RSF4, what would be your best guess of what you could put in there and make it work? So we haven't really looked at that in a while. When we started this process, when my client first came and said, hey, let's sell the land. You know, what can we do there? We pulled up, I said, okay, we do some research. We pulled up the zoning map and we came up with an RSF4, you know, about 50 acres. We engaged Jorgensen Engineering to lay out a couple of different options according to the development code of what would fit. And we took that plan, and I think there were about 140 to 160, depending upon how we laid out roads and what connectivity that we could manage. So we had a street. We had rolling hills entering the property. We had Oak Cliff entering the property. We had a connection to Far Lane to the east. And then we made a hypothetical connection to Warwick Drive, which touches the property on the east side. And we took it out and it looked like a very much like a traditional rolling, you know, lazy street meandering neighborhood. Well, we got down to staff and staff said, well, RSF4, your lot sizes are appropriate. You know, you've made all connectivity that you can really probably make within the bounds of your connection to transportation. However, flip the page and we come up with the master street plan map. And they said, well, you're going to have to allow for Rolling Hills to move from the west side at its current terminal to the east side. And by the way, that's on the master plan as a principal arterial. And I said, tell me about that. And at the time, there were a couple of developers, RSF4 developers, looking at the neighborhood, and they got the same answer. That looks, in the short run, like four lanes with a median. And instantly, our developers walked away. because their linear street cost went from around $350 a linear foot to well over $1,000. Additionally, they looked at not being able to sell residential homes, because quite frankly, when you look at that, who would want to build a house up against Crossover or up against Joyce Boulevard? I mean, rolling hills as it is should be downgraded, but that's another discussion. So... All of our potential buyer pool dried up because that didn't really work out. So we came back to the drawing board and we said, let's go talk to staff about what the future is. And in the meantime, we were seeing these new development codes that were coming out. So, you know, we had originally talked about RO up and down Old Missouri Road. And that didn't really resonate with staff and they thought that wasn't an appropriate use. We looked at the church across the street, the Butterhill area. Butterfield office complex the other churches and we thought well this side of the street doesn't look like residential so Why you know what could we do that would spur this and this about the same time neighborhood conservation and neighborhood services? General were coming into play and so we had a conversation about that and they said well this allows what you're looking for on a limited basis some small businesses and office space, some conditional use, some increased density, some cluster housing, if you choose it. And we said, well, let's just adopt the 2030 plan and the new code and go forward. So part of sustaining businesses that would want to go up against Old Missouri, in addition to the surrounding neighborhood, would be some increased density. So when we started looking at these plans, we talked to staff and we came up with, you know, there's really an area here where you could build small homes, small families, traditional homes, and then potentially empty nest homes all within a walking radius within the center of town and really add something when you look, you know, planned infill, not infill like we see in some of the areas where people around the park have taken big lots or, cut them down, stacked a couple of houses in, but real planned areas that have drainage plans, that you don't just have to submit a building permit. And we thought that single family on a smaller lot fit within those needs. So that's why we made that application. Okay. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you for explaining that, your answer to Justin's question why you're here. I have a question about you mentioned potentially developing for a facility or a neighborhood for the elderly or the 55 plus community. Well, I hope it's not elderly. Yeah, I do too. I'm sorry. I apologize to my colleagues. Watch it. Watch it. You kids. I'll hold you in the highest esteem. A facility for the people older than me. So I was reading in AARP magazine, which I actually do read, believe it or not, just a few months ago about some land use issues. They did an issue on land use and about aging in place. And I think even locally we have had a couple of community input sessions organized by a local nonprofit to talk about the problems of aging in place. For anybody who doesn't know what I'm talking about when I say aging in place, if you can imagine, maybe it's yourself or a family member who is getting up there in years and doesn't have anyone living with them anymore. Maybe they're widowed, for example, and they've lost the ability to drive, how lonely they might be or the kinds of problems they might have. if they have a medical emergency and they're unable to drive. These are real serious issues that we need to be prepared to face in Fayetteville. So when you mentioned that, I know it's kind of an offhand comment, but when you mentioned it, I perked up because I remember this magazine, this special edition that AARP did on land use in neighborhoods and how to design neighborhoods for people who need to age in a healthy environment. And the point of their article was that single family houses aren't enough and that many people need the option, not the prescription, but the option to live in a duplex and share income with a young person or companionship with a young person. And so I'm curious, because there are so many groups that are talking about this and what a healthy and happy neighborhood looks like for the elderly as they deal with these issues of loneliness and mobility. Why, if that's your plan, you aren't asking for something more than neighborhood conservation because it seems inadequate based on what – everybody's talking about the elderly community is Discussing so when we the idea kind of came to us when there were We were approached by a couple of architects that were looking at projects to do assisted living and it was mentioned by one that there was a shortage of and I would call it for lack of a better word pre Butterfield housing I I I look at people like my mother who are tired of taking care of a large house, who don't really want to take care of a large yard, who don't really want to leave East Fayetteville because that's where they live, and started talking to her and some of her friends and started talking to some other people in the community, my old partner Rob Maryship and some other guys, and they floated this idea out among some of their people that were in sort of this peer group that were in the process of downsizing. And they said, there's really not any place for us to go. You know, there aren't very many small lots. I mean, you have lots where they're snapped up pretty quick, and there's a shortage of smaller lots to build homes on in bedwell. I mean, we've got plenty of RSF4 lots, and they keep coming up. We hear them come up. You know, the trend is a little bit away from that. So they don't necessarily – not everybody needs a duplex. I mean, certainly somebody could come in with a conditional use and apply for that. But I particularly talk to a group of people who are simply looking for something a little bit smaller with a little bit less maintenance, maybe single story, almost everyone single story. So they could come in, live there, roll up their doors when they're not there, close it up. Maybe somebody is taking care of the landscape. They go to visit family or whatever they do and they come back and the neighborhood is the same. And I would liken it to... North Heights, which is on Sydney, behind Washington Regional off of Appleby. That's the development with the little oyster-colored brick. That's that type of community, but the big complaint that I hear in there, and I've helped a builder build some in there, is there are two-story units. Where can we do this and not have to go up and down stairs? Because we do want to age in place, and we don't want to age someplace else. I might not need assisted living yet, or I might not need a duplex or an income. You know, there are other alternatives for that. Some of those are facilities like Ark and Shire or Butterfield. And this kind of fits a niche in between. So we landed at that. Plus, we also looked at the cottages at Old Wire, which was a nice neighborhood, developed very well. you know, if somebody didn't want to do that, but simply wanted nicer homes on smaller lots. So this gives a developer the flexibility to come in and address either or both in one shape or another. Thank you. Okay, any other questions? Sir? There is another little area right at the entrance to Park Place subdivision. I believe it's called St. James. St. James Place. St. James Place. It's something you hardly notice when you drive by, but it's all one level. I believe all the units are, I believe they're all individual homes. I don't think they share walls or anything like that, but very tightly dense, one level. And I believe that most, it's not a senior facility, I don't think, but most of the people that live there are a little over. So that's another possibility too. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Well, let's get to the public comment. Okay. We're going to take some public comment. Not now. Let me lay the ground rules out and then you can come to the microphone. So I have been in on two public input sessions. that were relatively spirited. And so I want to lay out some ground rules here tonight that I want everybody to adhere to. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have five minutes. And then that's all you get unless the council member asks you questions or wants to bring you, or if they want to bring you back and ask you questions, or by a motion and a second and a majority vote of this council, they can give you more minutes. Everybody clear about that? Okay. And now you need to keep your comments to me. You don't need to engage another council member. You don't need to engage anybody. You're not to engage anybody in the public. He talked to me. According to state law, the way this is set up, I run this meeting much like a judge would in a courtroom. So tonight, I run it. And if I think anybody's getting out of bounds, I'm going to say something. So we're going to be courteous to one another. You can say what you want us to do. Now, when we get to a point... But you want to ask questions or something like that, you may do that, but that's got to be done within the five-minute limit. Don't engage a council member, a staffer, anyone in the public. And I don't want to hear no booing, cheering, hand clapping. You're going to stay orderly. And you've got to stay on the topic. Tonight, the first item we're going to discuss is the rezoning. We're going to get to the road at the next topic, okay? So now that's the rules. And everybody, if I think you're starting to get off course here, I'm going to correct you. And then if you continue, then I will ask you to take your seat. If you don't, I will have you escorted to your seat. And that's the way we've always run that in this council. And we will continue to do that. Everybody will be orderly and there will be courtesy. Okay. Now, who would like to be first at the microphone? Give us your name and address. Come right on up to the microphone, ma'am. Well, you can if you come to the microphone. That's the rules. I just have a question about the procedure. If you speak on this item, can you again address the road? You can. On the street, on the road, you may. Okay. Okay. Who else would like to address this tonight? Yes, please come up and... Mr. Mayor, members of the city council, my name is Wayne Withrow. I live at 2633 North Stagecoach Drive, which is right off the Rolling Hills. And it seems like with this change that there's more people coming in, of course. Can we see the map again? Sure, Ken. Pull the map up. It's a little bit delayed. It'll get here. I'm sorry. It's here now. Oh, OK. Now the narrow, long, narrow corridor, I guess you'd say, that goes to Rolling Hills, it empties onto Missouri Road. And there's going to be more traffic going into Rolling Hills. Now one of the main issues. of the community there is the increase in traffic. And that's what a lot of people are really upset about, because we have so much traffic on Rolling Hills. So this is going to do nothing but add traffic to Rolling Hills and, of course, Old Missouri. It's just possible that maybe they could have an exit from the development say, I'm not sure it goes straight up, but if they had a different exit than on the Rolling Hills, they wouldn't be adding to the traffic area. And so that's just what I was saying. Pointing out, I know we have a rezoning, but if the people that developed it would not have it emptying into Old Missouri or Rolling Hills, I think the people would accept that a lot better. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Everybody, you don't have to raise your hand. You can come right on up to the microphone to introduce yourself. Give us your address, and away you go. Hi. Hi. Mayor Jordan, it's nice to be here and I appreciate the opportunity to speak. My name is Tanya Landrum and I live in the community and I'm a mother and I'm a teacher and I'm very, very interested in this. I won't take five minutes. What I want to point out is that above your head, sir, it says that one of our priorities is ecosystem preservation. ecosystem preservation and we're looking at a very very large tract of land that is very rapidly in the process of development. I also know that one of our goals as a city as a city is 40% canopy And we're looking at a whole lot of trees in that area. I do realize that at this point it's private property. But I would like to ask that both of these issues be tabled for the time to give people time to find a way to protect some of this land. We need to find some money, and we need to organize enough groups to come together so that we can protect at least part of this property. Thank you. Hello, my name is Adrienne Covello and I live in the Huntington subdivision on Tartan Way. I want to start out by pointing out that Mr. Weigle just came up here and he gave us a great vision of what could be for this property. It could be for senior citizens and that would be great. But he's not developing this property and the seller is not developing this property. Whoever purchases this land is going to be developing the property. So he can lay out what he thinks could be a good idea, but they're not actually planning to do any of those things. They're just trying to create a vision for the rest of us of what could be. They are seeking this rezoning for marketing purposes because they want to be able to sell it to the most amount of people who they can. And a lot of that was driven by the 2030 street plan, as he said. The staff told them that that was on there. And so they should probably hit, hit, nudge, nudge, do that. So while... I agree. That would be great, and that is needed, although there is a brand-new retirement center being built on Crossover right now. They have no plans of doing any of that, and all of this rezoning is purely for the purpose of selling the property, and whoever buys it could do whatever they want with it. We don't know. Now, another really important thing that I want to point out is what you can't tell from that map is that this is a very sloped property. Now, the drainage and flooding in this area right now is bad. We went out and took a lot of pictures of the area around Rolling Hills the last time there was a heavy rain. And there was flooding everywhere. And, in fact, a lot of homes that are those duplexes across the street from Butterfield and the homes that back up to those have already gotten letters saying that they're going to be designated in a floodplain now. So this is already a huge issue on a big slope. And if we increase the density to such an extent that we don't have those trees holding that water and land in place, then we're going to flood Butterfield and we're going to flood all those homes. And that's a big issue that I don't think has been given proper consideration. Finally, higher density homes. CITY OF FAITLAND IS GOING TO PAY OUT A BUNCH OF MONEY FOR BROKEN WATER MAIN BREAKS. I DON'T THINK THERE'S BEEN ENOUGH ATTENTION GIVEN TO WHAT THIS HIGHER DENSITY WOULD DO TO EXISTING WATER AND SEWAGE FACILITIES, WHICH AS WE KNOW HAVE HAD SOME MAJOR, MAJOR ISSUES. SO I THINK THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN FURTHER CONSIDERATION. And finally, a lot of people have talked about the possibility of NC zoning leading to the possibility of affordable housing. We know that is an issue in Fayetteville. It absolutely is. But the zoning alone is not going to create affordable housing, especially because we don't know what's going to be built there. whoever buys this is going to determine what is going to be built there. So I don't think that this is in keeping with the neighborhood that it is. And while we've been given some ideas of what might be nice there, there's no controls in place to make sure that that is what actually happens in this property. So in my opinion, This isn't going to lead to affordable housing. It's going to put a strain on our existing water and sewage systems. It's going to lead to major drainage and flooding issues. It's going to lead to increased traffic. And we just don't have enough of a plan put forth to make an intelligent decision on the zoning issue. So in my opinion, let them sell the property. And then whoever buys it who is going to develop it and will come to us with a plan that makes sense, let them ask for the rezoning. But to do it just for... marketing purposes when there's so many negatives that could be attached to that, I think just doesn't make sense. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mr. Mayor and City Council members. Leanne Yergin, 3349 Piccadilly Lane. First, I just want to echo what Ms. Covello just said. That's the most we've ever heard about any intent to use this property. Despite having a, we've had two public hearings on this property, and that's the most we've ever heard. And regardless, and I'm sure Mr. Williams will say, you're not here to vote on development, you're here to vote on the zoning issue. And these are the reasons why I request that you vote the rezoning down. First of all, the Planning Commission only voted to recommend it four to three. We had three commissioners who did not think this was appropriate. Sloan Scroggins said this is form-based only. Zara Niederman, he had concerns about the conservation issues and even inquired about a possible conservation easement. Matthew Johnson questioned why this is not in the Hillside Overlay District. And if you don't mind putting the map back on. Sure. Another thing that concerns the neighbors, and I think the council needs to be aware, are the totality of circumstances surrounding this property. There are a total of 43 acres for sale right now, and that includes this 23 acres. It also includes the 11 acres that was rezoned in the summer as NSG acres. There's another parcel, a couple acres, they're not being rezoned. They're RSF4, they're on the market for $500,000. And the owner, whose house you can see on the other side of the proposed zoning, his house is up for sale too. And it coincidentally went up for sale about the time that the request for this zoning came in place. So my question is, if this is really appropriate zoning, why is the owner of the land moving? I've hit this, I've been beating this horse for a long time, but the application that the owner has submitted is still deficient. There are some mandatory provisions in your application which they have not completed. One of which is stating what the population density increase will have on public services including the school. There's absolutely no mention, if you look in the recommendation from the planning commission, from the staff, from the applicant, there is absolutely no discussion about the school. And that is very important. This is spot zoning. I don't think this is compatible with the rest of the property, which has been RSF4 ever since it's been in existence. But the main reason I think you should deny zoning is because of the overwhelming opposition to it by this neighborhood. We have been active. We have attended meetings. We are voicing our opinion. There is a link on the city's website now devoted to our neighborhood, which I think is the first time other than the Walker Park neighborhood. And as Mr. Williams has counseled you all before, neighborhood opposition is a basis for denying rezoning. I know that we cannot clap or cheer or make comments, but I would respectfully ask that everyone that is opposed to rezoning please stand quietly. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you for being here tonight. Sure. I followed a few of your Facebook posts. I have a hypothetical question. I want to be really clear that it's hypothetical because it's not going to make any sense in reality, but I'm trying to boil down exactly what some of the opposition is. And I appreciate that so many people stood with you with your last statement. Let's say for purposes of this question, we have a magic wand that solves traffic issues and stormwater issues and tree canopy issues. If that were in any way possible, what remains that makes this rezoning problematic? besides the increased density in the schools or the new families? You can answer that however you want. I'm trying to understand why more people living there, if all these other issues are solved, is a fundamentally bad thing. Well, I don't think it's a fundamentally bad thing, Mr. Petty. I mean, I don't think, and I'm speaking for myself, but I don't think the neighborhood is against development. I don't even think we're against some increased density development. The problem with the proposed zoning is although it's, I understand, you know, if you look at the limitations of size, space, height, et cetera, the reality of actually building 10 units per acre is probably small. It's still, you know, a possibility. And then with the conditional use permit, you can have four units per or four family units per unit. So you're looking at expanding, you know, I think my numbers, if I remember correctly, under RSF4, you're looking at 92 families, whereas under NC, it could be as many as 920. So that's the concern, is not so much that people are opposed to increased density, it's just how increased is it going to be? And I don't think people want that much of that much growth or that much density in this neighborhood, I don't think it's appropriate. So I understand people don't want it. The heart of my question is why. And forget it's NC, what if it's a rezoning for 100 units per acre? I mean, I'm really trying to boil this down because I don't understand yet, and I'm open to it. I want to be very clear. I'm open to this, and I'm trying to hear it because I've read so many Facebook posts and I've tried to interact. I think I've interacted a lot more than people expected, that I haven't expected or planned to. I'm so curious, why are more people a bad thing? I don't think more people are a bad thing. I think too many people in a particular amount of square footage is a bad thing. Can you tell me where you draw that line? Well, I'll tell you. Personally, I've looked at the cottages on Old Wire. I think they're nice. Now, I think that's NC zoning. They're also over $300,000 starting. Okay. But the thing is, we don't know what's going to be developed. And it's the unknown. So this affordability issue has come up a lot. If they were all cheap apartments and they were 100 units per acre, is that okay? I mean, this is why I'm trying. I just want to boil down what in particular is wrong or what makes your lives worse. Because that's what we're talking about, right? We have this sense, this fear that our lives are going to be worse. And that's completely natural. So I'm very curious, and I want to understand. I desperately want to understand. And I encourage anybody who wants to talk tonight, this is a question for everybody. I don't mean this just for you, but for the audience. What is wrong with more neighbors? But I think that gets back to a lot of the points that have been raised about increased traffic, increased load, safety. I mean, with more people, more issues, right? And we don't want apartments. I'm sorry. We do not want apartments. This is a single-family residential neighborhood, and I don't think anybody wants that. And I'm not suggesting that under NC zoning that that would be the reality, but it would be extremely higher-density housing. Possible. So I don't mean to badger you, but I just want to use this opportunity to encourage all the other people that plan to speak. Okay. If you don't want apartments, tell me why. If you draw the line at 10 units per acre or 20 units per acre or apartments, tell me why. Don't just tell me that's bad. Tell me why. Tell me what about it makes it bad in your opinion. Because I haven't heard that. And I want to get to that second one. There's a lot of... Everybody calm down here. Go ahead. I think there's a fear of... With apartments, you're not buying into a community. It's a transitional community. You've got people coming and going. They don't have ownership. They don't feel the same responsibility to their neighbors for taking care of each other, you know... putting someone's paper in, watching someone's dog. And, you know, you've got this transitory group of people. And I'm not saying that's always bad. But I'm saying that when you have a community that is not owning into the property, owning into the city, there's not that same level of respect and commitment to the neighborhood. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. Okay. I just want to make, I can see how the math that, how you arrived at your numbers, but this is capped at 10 units per acre. So the maximum. Well, as a ride. No, it's capped even with conditional use permit. It only allows 228 units because it's 22 acres. But you can have four family units per... But they count as four. They count as four units. They count against the 10-unit-per-acre cap. If four units are built in one dwelling, it counts for four units. Okay. All right, well then, my apologies, because I didn't read the ordinance to say that. The way it reads, it implies that it can be a lot higher density. I can see how you reached that conclusion. All right, but thank you. Thank you. And that was what I was going to try to get a clarification of, so you jumped in there. Hi, my name is Julie Curran. I live on Strawberry Drive, which is right next to the rezone property. First of all, I wanted to ask what neighborhood conservation was originally designed to do in our city. Like what that designation was. My understanding at one point was it was for like the downtown area and kind of that kind of infill. Is that correct or not correct? No, no. OK. Yeah. You're correct that it came out of the downtown plan. The first form-based district came out of that process. But it's evolved into recommended for citywide use. In fact, it was substantially amended by the council. to allow a broader use of it. It used to allow up to four plex by right. So that was reduced to only single family by right. Okay. I think my concerns are with this rezoning, what is the rest of the parcel going to be rezoned for? There's land that's still zoned as RS4 and what is that going to be rezoned to if this gets approved? That's a concern of mine. Also I WAS GOING TO SAY THAT I DIDN'T BUY INTO LIKE AN APARTMENT-STYLE NEIGHBORHOOD. I BOUGHT INTO A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WAS RESIDENTIAL LIKE IT IS NOW. I UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S A PRIVATE PROPERTY AND WE NEED GROWTH IN THE CITY, BUT I THINK THAT'S WHY PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED TOO, IS THEY DIDN'T BUY INTO THAT TYPE OF NEIGHBORHOOD. LIKE IF SOMEONE LIVES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT, THERE'S LOTS OF RENTALS AND TOWNHOUSES AND THINGS LIKE THAT. THEY KNOW THAT GOING INTO IT, AND WE DIDN'T KNOW THAT GOING INTO BUYING, EXCUSE ME, OUR PROPERTY. SO I THINK THAT THAT'S A CONCERN THAT I'M A SHORTY. NICOLE CLAISON. REZONING IS A SERIOUS THING. I LIVE AT 2930 NORTH LOXLEY AVENUE. REZONING IS A SERIOUS THING. IT HAS A RIPPLE EFFECT THROUGHOUT MANY FACETS OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD. IN MY OPINION, AS HAS BEEN EARLIER STATED, IT IS NOT TO BE USED AS A MARKETING TOOL. Jorgensen listed the owner as the only person with financial interest in the rezoning. As such, I can only presume that as of this meeting, there is no buyer or developer. You have no idea what a buyer or developer will want to do with the property or how they will interpret the NC zoning. This is putting the cart way before the horse. Some of Mitch's ideas sound great, but he's not the developer. He's not the buyer. He's not the architect. That is simply conjecture. We have no plan, definitive plan, to go off of. AS OUR CITY CONTINUES TO GROW, WE MUST MOVE FORWARD THOUGHTFULLY AND CAREFULLY. IS NC APPROPRIATE ZONING EVERYWHERE SOMEONE WANTS TO PUT IT? NO. AND THAT'S OKAY. AS OF THIS MORNING, THERE ARE 644 HOMES FOR SALE IN PAYABLE. THERE ARE 700 DEPARTMENTS, TOWNHOMES AND DUPLEXES FOR RENT. THERE'S ALSO 188 HOMES SUBDIVISION THAT SHOULD BE APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION IN THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS. THAT IS QUITE A BIT OF INVENTORY AS WE TALK ABOUT LACK OF INVENTORY. THAT IS A LOT. What percentage of homes for sale are adequate? We cannot zone our way into affordability. We're going to continue to have this conversation. I'm sure that ship has long since sailed. This property is listed over $3.5 million. A developer will never make a profit if the homes are not on the more expensive side. As a city, we must have to look at gentrification. When we know we are gentrifying, many think we already are. Stating we must build higher density to stop people from sprawling is like saying I'm going to scratch my shoulder now so it won't itch later. It doesn't work that way. A family moving to Northwest Arkansas will see they can buy a new 2,600 square foot home with a bonus room and a half acre lot for $325,000 in Prairie Grove. Or they could buy a brand new 1,500 square foot home with no bonus and that negligible backyard for $450,000. It comes down to a simple math problem. Whether they want to live in downtown Fayetteville or live in the heart of Fayetteville, it's simply what they can afford. 450 versus 325 you get way more house for your money are we actually creating the opposite of what we say we want are we actually stopping sprawl or are we creating the opposite pushing more people out because they can't afford to live here no matter what we build mara what the size because the prices are so exorbitant does our city have the employment base to create jobs for people to live here and pay rent or mortgage whatever is built are we relying on bentonville or rogers to create that IF SO, WE ARE CREATING MORE DRIVERS. A SMALL COFFEE SHOP OR DOG GROOMING SALON ISN'T GOING TO PROVIDE LIVABLE EMPLOYMENT TO ANY ADULT THAT WANTS TO BUY A HOME. ARE WE WANTING TO CREATE A CITY OF HOMEOWNERS OR A CITY OF RENTERS? I PRESUME WE WANT TO MIX, BUT WHAT IS THE IDEAL MIX OF THOSE NUMBERS? HOUSING REPORTS ARE NOW SHOWING THAT MILLENNIALS ARE NOW STARTING TO BUY HOMES. THEY'RE WANTING TO GET OUT OF THEIR SMALL APARTMENTS OR PARENTS' HOUSES AND HAVE A PLACE OF THEIR OWN. IS REZONING IT TO NC CREATING THAT REALITY FOR THAT DEMOGRAPHIC? Our neighborhoods, Huntington, Oaks Manor, the other surrounding neighborhoods, are some of the last bastions of affordability in Fayetteville. WE ARE ALREADY WHAT FAPEL STRIVES TO BE. OUR NEIGHBORHOODS ARE ALREADY DIVERSE IN AGE, RACE, POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS, OCCUPATION, EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND AND INCOME. WILL ZONING AFFECT THAT AFFORDABILITY? WE ALSO HAVE TO LOOK AT THE TOPOGRAPHY OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE. THERE ARE FLOODING AND DRAIN ISSUES IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS. THERE HAVE BEEN AT LEAST THREE WATER MAIN BREAKS IN THE PAST 18 TO 20 MONTHS ALONG WILLING HILLS DRIVE AND OAKS MANOR. THERE ARE SERIOUS CONCERNS ABOUT WHETHER OUR CURRENT WATER INFRASTRUCTURE CAN MAINTAIN A SUS The runoff and the additional flooding issues that could be created from the development of this property must be considered. There's also been a growing number of out-of-state developers buying land in northwest Arkansas. They have no skin in the game. Their kids don't go to school with your kids. They don't live or work here. They have a profit-maximizing tunnel vision and do not seem to care how it will impact the environment or any negative impact upon our neighborhoods. I really think that moving forward, if or until there is a buyer or developer that wants a property rezoned and can show a plan as to how they would develop based on that rezone, we really need to think about no longer rezoning some properties. Buyers and developers know they can request the rezone. It shouldn't be an issue. IT IS HARD WHEN YOU MAY HAVE THE VISION OF THESE REALLY CUTE AFFORDABLE LITTLE HOMES AND COTTAGES AND THEN THE DEVELOPER COMES IN WITH SOMETHING ENTIRELY DIFFERENT. IT'S ALREADY BEEN REZONED, THAT'S WHAT THEY HAVE. WE CAN'T MOVE FORWARD REZONING PROPERTY AND THEN CROSSING OUR FINGERS AND THEN IT GETS DEVELOPED THE WAY YOU HOPE THAT IT WILL. OH, I'M SORRY, DID YOU SAY SOMETHING? OH, OKAY. I JUST WANTED TO TELL YOU AT 30, BUT I DIDN'T GET ANYMORE THAN THAT. CAN OUR SCHOOLS MAINTAIN THIS KIND OF HIGH DENSITY WITH A POTENTIAL INFLUX OF ENROLLMENT? Again, we don't know what's going to go there. Butterfield is currently at 90%. McNair is over 90% with plans and location of another elementary and middle school and decided we cannot count on it happening in a time frame that would not place an extra burden upon the school capacity numbers. And we also, and correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Stoll, under RSF 4, it requires 25%, tree canopy, and NC only requires 20%. Is that correct? Yeah. Is that correct? You said there was no difference in the tree canopy preservation regarding the two, but RSF4 requires 25% canopy and NC requires 20% canopy. Is that correct? I believe it's the same. Okay. Because in the ordinances, it states that there is a difference. So that's important to look at. I'll invite the planning director, Andrew Garner, to correct me if I'm wrong. Okay. Okay. Okay. And Kyle, I believe you had a question. I do. I think you hit on several of the important challenges that we're facing there. You know, there are definitely pain points around land prices and growth and all of the issues that brings. And I agree zoning. Okay. Excuse me, zoning can't fix them all. My experience is, it's been about 10 years now, when I was shopping for houses, I actually was one of those that wanted a smaller yard. I looked over in Ripple Row area when they were way out of my price range. I ended up buying something on three times the land because it was affordable. So the zoning issue there is certainly not going to fix the affordability issue by itself. Do you think it's going to make it worse? I think you run that risk of creating the opposite effect. If we are infilling, infilling, infilling, infilling, and the prices and the land prices are continuing to go higher, yeah, people moving here won't be moving to Fayetteville because they won't be able to afford it. We don't have the employment basis that some of the other cities have. We just don't. A lot of people commute to Bentonville and Rogers every single day. And they'll continue to commute even further from Prairie Grove and Farmington and Elkins and Huntsville, because you get more house for the money. It's sometimes $100,000, $200,000 less for a bigger house. I mean, that's just simple math. So I think we do run the risk. So if we're rezoning in the name of affordability, I mean, that doesn't watch. One last question, I guess, then. Give me a magic wand tool like Matthew was asking for earlier, but that would fix some of those Is there something besides zoning that we're missing out on in regards to what to? The affordability issue well the portability issue is so much. I layered I could probably have another here another five ten minutes and talk about that of course, but you know the employment late employment base is IS ONE, FOR SURE. IF WE DON'T HAVE THE EMPLOYMENT TO PROVIDE A LIVABLE WAGE FOR PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO PAY RENT AND MORTGAGE, I DON'T KNOW WHAT WE'RE DOING. WHY ARE WE DOING IT? ARE WE CREATING A BUBBLE? ARE WE BUILDING, BUILDING, BUILDING? I you could easily create a bubble and then everyone's gonna be upside down here in four or five years, especially What's the economy going to do and are we bringing in enough jobs to support that or are we not? So are you suggesting we don't build any new housing? No, not at all. I guess I'm having a hard time. Of course we have to move forward with development. I mean that that's unquestionable And I think so my questions is as I'm looking at there's 644 homes single-family homes available for sale today. I There are 700 apartments, townhouses, and duplexes available for rent today. I called every single apartment, townhouse, condo development property in Fayetteville. Not one is 100% occupied. I commend you. There's a lot of them. And we're still in the school year. So are we wanting to create renters? Are we wanting to create buyers? I presume we want to mix. That would be great. But what's that balance? Do we want people, I think traditionally we look at people who buy a home or creating and establishing roots. People who tend to rent tend to be a little more nomadic in their moving. Thank you. Quick question. First, I should disclose to everybody that I'm a renter. Second, we've been experiencing a growing affordability challenge, which you've noted. on several points. Do you have any data that our population growth is slowing down because of it? Well, I think you have to look at that twofold. We look at the overall population data and we're growing, clearly. You look at some of the school information data and some of that tends to flatline in three years. So is that an indicator that in three years our population is going to be flatlining? I don't know because they are slightly different. The demographics would suggest that people are simply having less children. Correct. So I'm curious, if you have data, I'd love to see it because I'm on panels to discuss affordable housing and we're trying to come up with real solutions. So if you have data showing that are... I have a lot of data that I would certainly love to share with you. I don't have it with me at present, but I do have a lot of data to talk about that, and that would be wonderful. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you. Did you get something, Gar? Yes. Yes. Ms. Claussen is correct. It's 20% for neighborhood conservation and 25% for it. Okay. And I just bring that up because when we talk about winning 40% tree canopy by 2030, 5%, right, I'll sound like a lot, that's a lot of trees. And so that's a big difference. So thank you for clarifying. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mayor. My name is Lucas Renier. I live at 3191 North Catherine in the Huntington subdivision. My property is adjacent to or near the subject parcel that sought to be rezoned tonight. As a general principle, I would say that the proposed rezoning is simply incompatible with the surrounding area, and that is the benchmark for approval or approval of the zoning. Denial. This proposed rezoning has not been considered, at least in any depth that suggests serious consideration with respect to the impact on neighborhood schools. And that's not only Butterfield Trail Elementary School, that it's also McNair Middle School. THERE'S BEEN A BIT OF BACK AND FORTH ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT BUTTERFIELD IS ACTUALLY AT CAPACITY. AS MS. CLAY HAS POINTED OUT, IS IT TECHNICALLY RIGHT NOW AT 90% CAPACITY. And staff, they will inform you that a school efficiently runs at approximately 85%. A school is not running well when 100% of the seats are filled. And if we are talking about injecting greater density into an area where right now, every year, The four children I've had who have passed through Butterfield have had to subject utility bills subject to rigorous examination to make sure we live in the neighborhood because it is a school that is tight at capacity. Unlike other schools in the district which have been under capacity and welcome transfers. This alone, impact on schools, this alone is a legal basis on which to deny an application for rezoning. I would echo the comments that have been made that this rezoning in no way furthers the city goals of affordability. There was discussion, there was colloquy a moment ago about trying to find affordable housing. If you look around the city at houses that have been built in NC developments, these are not affordable houses. These are going to be $300,000 to $400,000 or more per homes. I would dispute emphatically that our neighborhood, this neighborhood, this part of town, needs to somehow be remade in another image, in the image of a Portland, Oregon, or of a Seattle, or of another city that has a more urban character. If you look at our neighborhood, it is not only walkable as an RSF4 district, it is in fact walked. There are children walking to school, there are children on bicycles. It is not an example of sprawl, the type of sprawl that the city is trying to erase. It is an adequate and well-functioning and well-flowing designation that would lend itself perfectly to development. We talk about more houses. Building more houses is a way to drive down housing costs. I would submit respectfully that there is an inherent fallacy there. Houses are not like sacks of grain. You build, build, build, and we know what happens. There's a market crash that has widespread rippling effects. all across a number of sectors. So the idea that Bill Moore brings prizes down is something that I think needs to be erased from our discussion of development in this city. Finally, I would like to note, and I hope there's opportunity for colloquy between some of the aldermen who've raised some interesting points. I'm running out of time, and I hope to have that discussion later. But we'll probably be back another evening. You think so? Well, that would be wonderful. It's a pleasure to speak to you, Mayor. There has been a nonprofit corporation incorporated that has entered into bona fide talks with the owner of this property for acquisition of a not insubstantial amount of acreage with the idea of preserving that acreage in its pristine wilderness state for use as an outdoor science learning center, a regional asset in Fayetteville, in the heart of Fayetteville. A capital campaign has begun and is being vigorously pursued. If this council is not inclined to deny the request tonight, like I believe is appropriate, then I would at the very least ask that the request be tabled so that these negotiations can continue to their fruition. Thank you. Thank you. And Justin has a question. Lucas, I wanted to ask your opinion on something. Nobody yet has said anything about, at least I don't think they have, about the intersection specifically of rolling hills and old missouri or old missouri and old wire which i find to be two very inadequate intersections in our city in your opinion um would anything would any development um require the development themselves, the city, somebody to address those two intersections because of the excess cars that would be thrown out, even at RSF4. But do you think it is exponentially worse, or do you not think it matters if it was a higher zoning, higher density zoning? Based on what would happen, if that's the only way out – I think Mr. Withrow said that if that's the only way out, he sort of alluded to it, that's going to put a lot of traffic at that straight intersection, but it's also going to create an even worse situation, in my opinion, at the old wire intersection. I was wanting your opinion on that as a resident. Absolutely. Well, as a resident who traverses both those intersections daily, I believe that the traffic situation there right now is such that it's time for stoplights there, as it is. If you add, let's just say, RSA-4 density across the property that needs to be built, I think that any developer is going to have to look at other exit points beyond those two. And certainly, if there's any further development, then traffic lights are a strict necessity. If there is development on the NC density level, then we may have to be looking at traffic solutions that go far and above beyond just merely traffic lights. we're creating a real problem. We've talked about the impacts of density as if we could wave a magic wand and make all the impacts of density go away. So what's the objection to density? I would respectfully submit, in a very cordial fashion, that this question verges on the absurd because we are talking about creating a hypothetical that answers itself. So you cannot discount density. the impact of density on issues that are valuable to this city at large, including tree canopy coverage, effective transportation, maintenance of neighborhoods that are well established. I think these are important values, not just to our parochial interest as members of the Rolling Hills or Huntington's own, but these are interests that serve the city as a whole. I hope I've answered your question. Yes, you have. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Lucas. I understand you're running for city council. Is that correct? The filing period has not yet come, but I certainly have expressed an interest in that. Thank you. Pardon? It says not until August, is it? That's right. There's a fair amount of time, so I can certainly be dissuaded. Well, best of luck. I had a question. You said that at the very beginning of your comments that the proposal was fundamentally incompatible with the Huntington subdivision that you live in, and much in line with the questions I asked of Ms. Yeargan. Would you explain why? Well, I hope that I have for purposes of impact on schools, impact on traffic. And I understand your question to her was predicated by boxing her in to where she really only had one answer. If you were to wave a magic wand and could cure all the problems of traffic, of school impacts, et cetera, et cetera, Then sure, let's build a high-rise and put 50,000 people in because we're not thinking beyond those terms. Density as a city value, I understand is our city value, but it has to be applied to the facts and the circumstances of every case, not in a vacuum. And again, within the confines of the friendly relationship, I think you and I have, I would suggest that That is not a really fair question to ask to put aside all the realities and she'd be only allowed to answer it in a certain way. Let's open it wide up then. Sure. Do you believe that, let's just talk in round numbers, is 100 units close to a school or 100 units spread out from a school going to generate more traffic or less traffic? I'm not sure I understand your question. Is 100 units closer to the school or 100 units further out from the school are going to generate more traffic? Right now what we have is a situation where, for instance, Old Missouri, there are many neighborhoods that exit onto Old Missouri, right? In fact, in many cases, they're only exit, which means that at about 7.30 or 8 o'clock every morning and between the hours of 3 o'clock and 5.30 every night, every person who lives in those neighborhoods has to use that road. We couldn't design a system that would lead to more traffic. And so my question is, we're forcing everybody right now to use, to live in a different place than from where they work in general, They have to use the same road at the same time of day to get back and forth from work to school. And there are those in the planning community and the traffic engineering community, and I would imagine even those up here on the dais and that work for the city, that contend that more people closer to their destination results in comparatively lower traffic levels. Do you agree with that or disagree with that? Okay, I would agree as a principle that sort of floats in the ether unattached to any particular facts in our city. I would certainly agree that if people live closer to the city, they're not going to drive as much. I would go back to Alderman Tennant's remarks that roadway improvements, including stoplights, other improvements, can ameliorate traffic effects. I want to rewind to something else you raised in your hypothetical about traffic. If you put 100 units here, 100 units there, what's the difference? Well, if you put 100 units in an area where the road infrastructure is such that it can accommodate that influx better, then you have obviously less of a concern. I don't think those are the facts with the proposed development that we're looking at tonight. You described at one point, I think in a public Facebook comment, that you thought the proposed rezoning would lead to JAL development. And I was curious what you meant by that. Sure. So, I mean, we're... Sorry, I was distracted by a comment. What did I mean by cheap to jowl development? I think that's probably a euphemism for houses like the one I used to live in New Orleans where you have approximately four feet maybe separating house to house. where you have density that echoes the density that you would find in a much, much larger urban environment, that it's not Fayetteville. It's not the character of Fayetteville. So, I mean, if you're asking specifically what I mean by Cheek by Jowl, I think the expression is tantamount to saying that we have houses that are built in extreme... So this is where I'm going with this series of questions. Let's say, hypothetically, that we restricted the total number of units. Let's say we only allowed, how many units are allowed on the site today? 60 acres over 4 units per acre, 240 units? Let's say we're never going to allow ever, ever, ever, period, no more than 240 units, but we'll let the developer build them any way they want to. Is that problematic? Is that problematic? Yes. Is that incompatible? I think right now the developer has the right to develop 40 or however many acres of actually developable property. I'm not sure how much of it is actually susceptible development given the sort of a southeast north west gradient. Can you take them to 200 or 100 or whatever? Sure, yeah. Right now the property owner has the right to develop the properties he sees fit subject to under the RSO4 and I think that's an appropriate level of density. That's my answer to your question. I'm sorry, but I want to be really clear. And I also like to say that we don't have the power to impose these rules tonight. This is a binary situation, an up or down vote on an NC. We're not here negotiating out a planned zoning district, which actually might be a very valuable solution. Maybe we can get some sort of use to where that would actually accommodate that. But that's not before us. That's not in the range of the possibilities that we have tonight. I mean, I'm more than happy to talk through everything that we can imagine, but that's on the table. If you're asking me if I think that's problematic, I think if it's if it is within the right of the developer to develop to that level of density, it is what it is. And I'm not standing here tonight because there's no hearing. I hope I've answered your question. I don't think you have, but we can stop it there. Well, maybe we can have a coffee and talk about this more. Looks like we're going to be here for coffee. I would be happy to address any other questions or comments from members of the council. Of course. Any other questions? Thank you very much, Mayor. Who else would like to address this? Hello. My name is Jacqueline Lobb, and I own the house at 3043 Strawberry. And I've been attending all the meetings, all the planning meetings, and the meeting at Rolling Hills Baptist Church. And a couple of things have kept coming up. One is that the number of about 500,000 people are expected to move to northwest Arkansas by 2030. And my question is, why are they coming? If these people are coming, why are they coming? Are they coming because they want a small-town feel, get away from the big city and the hustle and the bustle? And who are they? Are they retired people or are they working-age people? I have about eight copies that... Can I give this to you? Give it to the city clerk and we'll pass her around. I HAVE EIGHT COPIES. I WASN'T SURE HOW MANY TO GET. I LOOKED AT THE CITY COUNCIL WEBSITE AND I COUNTED EIGHT PEOPLE. That report is a 33-page report by Bain Capital talking about the expected change in employment by 2030. And the change of the synopsis of this is that the baby boomers will be retiring and we will not have the production possibilities that we have currently. Therefore, we're AI, artificial intelligence, will be utilized more and more, and they're projecting 25% of the jobs that exist today will no longer be there. Now, that's not all going to happen in 2030. That's going to be slowly over the next 12 years, but... So who are these people that are going to be moving here and where are they going to work if we have 25% unemployment, I mean as far as the jobs going away? Those jobs will be unskilled jobs, those 25% that are going to just disappear because artificial intelligence and machines are going to be able to do those jobs. Also, in the planning meeting, Mr. Brown spoke of the transit system and that you want the most density within a mile of the transit corridor. My question about that particular part of the reason for zoning is who is going to ride this transit? We had a vote about two years ago asking for more money to fund the transit, and it was voted down decidedly. There is not support for more transit. So why are we zoning to build buildings for more density for people who are not going to ride the transit? And if they're going to Walmart and Bentonville... Are they really going to ride the transit, if that's it? And who is our employer going to be that's going to bring all these people? Because right now, businesses are leaving Fayetteville, and they're moving to Bentonville and to Rogers. So I'm concerned about that. Also, we have numerous apartments currently, which has already been pointed out, and with vacancy. So again, we don't want to build something that no one is going to fill. I'm just very concerned that we're going to, oh, also, before I say that, Mr. Stoll said seven units per acre are needed to support transit, I believe is what you said. And, again, that goes to who's going to ride the transit. So why do we need seven units per acre to support transit that nobody actually cares to ride? currently. The idea that downtown properties had with the 55 plus I'm getting there. That sounds like a great idea but again it's hypothetical and so you can't build something for something that's not there and the magic wand has been mentioned many times but none of us have a magic wand so it's best that we have a reality We're looking at reality. We're looking at what some people are saying is going to happen to employment with artificial intelligence and with baby boomers retiring and exactly who's coming here. And what I'm most concerned about is I don't want us to have big city problems with crowding and lockdowns. empty homes and vacancies and empty buildings without the resources and the experience to be able to tackle those problems People move to Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas because they want to have time. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Hello Emily Brickman, I live at 3138 Catherine Avenue I'd like to see this property developed in a way where we can all have input. I mean, there's lots of opinions here, lots of energy here that people really care about. And I don't think this is about wanting multifamily development. I think it's about wanting a responsible development that we can be part of. Change is hard, and if we can be involved... there might be a way we can come to a solution. I have mentioned this to several of you up there, but what about a planned zoning district? That's one of our zoning options in our zoning options toolbox. And when I spoke with the mayor, he said it hadn't been used in a while. But that's a way for all of these things that people are saying to really get studied and looked at and to be thought about in a rational manner. I know that that's not what we're voting on right now at this moment. But it seems like this may be a good property for that sort of tool. So I just hope that you can keep that in the back of your mind during your considerations. Because I think that this property is very special. And one of the things that you guys have all, or why, this question, why, how is it going to impact us? There are studies that show that green space is valuable. That people's health and well-being is... is higher equivalency because of green space. And this green space is valuable to all of us in some way, shape, or form. The Nature Conservancy is spending a lot of money right now to invest on green spaces in cities. I've actually reached out to them to see if they would be interested in partnering with us to maybe preserve some of this green space because it is very valuable to our psyche. And part of why this green space would be... EXCEPTIONAL PLACE TO PRESERVE IS BECAUSE OF THE TOPOGRAPHY. THE TOPOGRAPHY IS ALSO ONE OF THE REASONS THAT WE MIGHT WANT TO CONSIDER A DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGE. 60 TO 80 FEET OF ELEVATION CHANGE FROM BUTTERFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TO WARWICK, 80 TO 100 FEET OF ELEVATION FROM OLD MISSOURI TO NORTH OAK 80 to 100 feet from Old Missouri to Strawberry, and up to 110 to 120 feet in elevation change from Raven Trail, Bar Lane, in the north to Strawberry Drive in the south. The reason for this is the Fayetteville Fault bisects this property. You can see it in our subdivision. You can see it on the property. The fault is it causes the landform to look this way. It's the reason why the roads are the way they are because way back in the day, people walked on the hill up there on Old Missouri Road. That was an easy way to walk. They didn't make the road up the hill because that's a very challenging way to walk. So I would just... ASK YOU ONCE AGAIN TO KEEP THAT IN YOUR MIND WHEN YOU'RE MAKING THESE DECISIONS. AND ALSO DUE TO THE ELEVATION CHANGE AND THE TOPOGRAPHY CHANGE, SHOULD MAYBE THIS PROPERTY BE INVOLVED OR ASSOCIATED WITH THE HILLSIDE, HILLTOP OVERLAY DISTRICT? I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF IT WAS CONSIDERED OR HOW, IN WHAT WAY, SHAPE OR FORM IT WAS RATED THROUGH THE OVERALL PROCESS OF THAT EVALUATION PERFORMED BY THE CITY A FEW YEARS Also, the National Wetlands Database indicates that there could be a wetland on the property. This is one of the things that should be looked at through a PZD. The topography should be looked at through a PZD. And so the topography creates a significant downward grade towards established residences. If we put a lot of high-density buildings there, we're going to increase the surface water runoff. And it's going to impact our downgrading neighbors. And their homes will flood. Streets will flood. We will see impacts. It's something you can calculate. In addition, the soils are of very limiting capacity to hold water. They are, this is all information from the United States Department of Agriculture website, a high capacity for surface water runoff, high risk of corrosion to concrete. Jeff, you had a question. I have a question. First of all, thank you for making some great points about the... the green space factors. And I do have a question. It's probably for city staff, but you may be able to help as well. That's the second or third time that drainage flooding has been brought up on this. And my question is, How complete have we looked at the drainage situation at the, I guess it would be the north side of the property? Or where the drainage is. And the second thing is, I thought we did something really, really significant here a few years ago in the streamside protection ordinance. Is there any streams or active waterways of any size on that property? I find it hard to believe that there's not any on that property. 30, 40 acres. There is an unmapped tributary to Mud Creek on the northern portion of the property that bisects that long, skinny portion. It's on the topographic map, the United States Geological Survey topographic map from 2015. It is not on any of your internal documentation that I have seen. Okay. I had a feeling you might know. And I would ask Chris as well. If that's the case, I have no doubt that it is, what's the difference between how we recognize the stream if it's not on the city's topographic map, but it is on a map that exists somewhere? There are no protected streams per the... ordinance that set up the streamside protection zones. The property generally drains to the north and northwest, so the lowest area is actually the northwest part of the property. There are no known drainage issues. Obviously, there's no development there. We do know that there are a lot of drainage issues to the west of the Old Missouri Road and we've looked at some of those are actually Looking at some design for to mitigate some of those based on some of the drainage discussions that we've had This property it does not appear to me that that would really negatively impact any of those issues the development as it occurs you know our standard requirement is that the development has to mitigate any increase in flows so there would be detention ponds and water quality water quality facilities that be required per our ordinance so I think you know the existing drainage issues that that some people speak of There are issues, certainly. I don't believe this property would either solve or cause additional problems. Okay. There was recently, I know of one, there may have even been more, a pretty large-scale water pipe, some sort of issue in that neighborhood because I had a few people send me pictures and there was a heightened awareness of it because of everything going on. One of the good things about the Rolling Hills group is they pretty much instantly tell each other about it, which a lot of good neighborhoods do, so that's good. Okay. In your opinion, does a potential development have a negative impact on existing infrastructure of the water system and the sewage system and all the things that are already in those neighborhoods? The water supply is very adequate. Actually there's a 36-inch line, a trunk line that runs through or near the area that could be accessed at certain points. Some of the existing lines may need some maintenance or may need some minor upgrades to get into the site as far as water, but water supply in general is completely adequate. Adam Blythekraus, M.D.: Adequate, okay. David S. Sewers, there are, will be some sewer extensions that will be needed. The essential trunk system and the base of the system is adequate. that any development that occurred would be required to extend any sewers as necessary to serve their property. But there's a 36-inch water line. Water line there now. Thank you very much, and thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Hi, Sarah. I'm sorry, Sarah had a question. Hang on, I'm sorry. You're fine. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. This is actually just a question for staff, but it ties in with one of the things that you brought up about a PZD. So I would like to ask, you know, so just give a brief explanation for everybody out there what a PZD is. And, yeah. If staff could tell me, do properties, why don't we use PZDs as much as we used to? And do property owners usually ask for a rezoning for a PZD before they have a project in mind? Is that a typical thing as opposed to NC? A PZD is a planned zoning district, and they're called different things around the country. But your second question is, do can property owners ask for a pzd without having a development in mind yes they can do they do that less frequently i would say they would do it less frequently because generally applying for a pzd is more expensive and more involved so the closer the developer is to that the that's developing actually developing something the more information they would have to develop the specifics, the more specific that the PZD process would require. So typically then a person who's ready to develop would already have plans and say I want this PZD laid out in this certain fashion. Okay. Could I add about why we ever instituted a PZD? It was for exactly situations like this. where we had a large rezoning, and the neighbors were very concerned about what the total development of this land was going to be. And we gave the developers an option of doing a PCD so that they could explain in some way that would be enforceable what the property would look like when it has been developed. So, we had many, many PZDs approved. They were much more expensive back then because they had to be engineered because a PZD included not only zoning but also development approval all in one. Now, we quit that when we realized that when a PZD got challenged, the courts were unsure on what test to use, and a zoning is going to be approved by the courts unless you all are arbitrary and capricious, which has not happened during my 17 years as city attorney. A preliminary plat or large-scale development has a different test. Its test is simply where a jury sits as if they were you and makes a decision as if you didn't say anything. So it is a very dangerous decision. And so what we decided to do, because the courts were confused about that, is that we removed the development process from the PCDs, which made them much less expensive to do. They didn't have to be engineered. and they could then bring a preliminary plat or a large-scale development through once they had got the proper zoning. They still are available, and they're available at a much cheaper situation, but they have not been used. I think part of it is also because many new zoning districts have been approved by the city council, and so fewer developers have needed them. Before mixed use was so common, the only way you could have mixed use was with a PCD. So now we have many zoning districts that allow all kinds of mixed use, where you have both apartments and commercial buildings, stuff like that, all in one. And so it wasn't needed anymore. in many cases, especially when there's going to be just a fairly small thing. But a PZD in this particular area, I think, would be something that could show the neighbors how the entire owner's owned lot not just 10 acres here and 20 acres there, but how the whole lot would look like. Would there be different densities at different places? Would there be different uses? And that's what an owner, if they choose to, can do it. And so that's why in the past it was done, and I think the city council... uh back in the past often wanted to see a pzd because they were concerned like the neighbors about what the final project would look like and has been said here we can't ask about projects and zoning can't do it the only way that ever comes about will be if there's in fact a pzd and and the owner also wants to say and this is how it's going to be laid out There are the uses, so they can be a lot more detailed on what will actually happen to that property. And would there be an environmental survey as part of it? I think your time is up, unless somebody asks you a question. I have a question, Kit. Did I hear you say that the PCD could be applied for, but... It doesn't supersede like the rezoning. It is an actual rezoning. It is an actual rezoning. Okay, so I thought I heard you say that... I have a little experience with PCDs. Yeah, I know what you do. Do PCDs... Do PCDs have a time constraint on them? They used to. When they were tied to development, because development rights had a time limit, but since the new PCDs are zoning only, then there is no time limit on them, and that was another problem we saw with PCDs, because we had a whole bunch of them not built out, and so we had land out there that couldn't be developed, and that's not a good situation. That's another reason we changed and made them zoning decisions only. I might also add just a couple of things here, and that is one that that's why you see these PZDs come back in front of you, because when those concepts have been used, they can't make a simple change to it without coming back to the council, which is a part of it. And it allows you to talk, to reiterate what Kit said, more about things like some of the things that are impacted at development, like drainage and where tree preservation will be and those types of items, that really today, all we're talking about is what could be built. So when people say hypothetically, zoning is hypothetically to the requirements that a lot tells you that it can be built on that piece of land. And that's what you're deciding is, is that the right density? Is it the right uses. And it's not about whether our water lines handle it because we look at that on the development side unless it's going to be a PZA. We look at where it connects in streets, where it connects in terms of infrastructure. All of those items are development items just like pre and post drainage. Our drainage manual doesn't allow a property undeveloped in the new code to have more impact than it had post-development than it had pre-development. And that's why Chris talked about detention areas and things of that nature. I just want to make that distinction. You aren't able to get into those discussions unless it is a planning running district. Thank you. And I'd like to tell Emily, I'm not allowed to give you more time, only the city council. More. Okay. I also wanted to mention, Sarah, you know we've just done this in the water sewer committee. We have looked at the capacity of a 20-year plan for all throughout the city. So if someone is worried about capacity, it's pretty well studied. And there are going to be some real big capital expenses as we move forward, but at least we have a 20-year plan. and you you know i mean it took us a long time to go through this you were relatively new on the committee and so at least we do have an understanding of what the demand will be and the capital that it's going to take in the long run so it's published if anyone is curious about that that's a good point thank you okay who else would like to address this hello my name is martin jones i live on 2997 starbury uh it seems to me that part of the problems are caused by the rules we set down and operate by. For instance, you said that we can only talk to you, and yet in this meeting, I've heard the owner of the property, or his representative, that he tried several approaches to this and But it went from $300 to $1,000 on linear foot on the streets. The street is coming up a little bit later, but it is very much part of the problem with myself as well as with anyone else, or maybe I'm speaking a little ahead of myself. Well, you're going to get to speak on it. We're going to bring the street up after we get to the rezoning discussion. Okay. Anyhow, the street and the zoning are very much linked together. And while you can't approve one or the other, in fact, the street What happened to the little 20 acres or 12-acre section or the small section? It started last summer. This started without very many people being involved. I'm sure that people would have shown up, voiced an opinion one way or another, but as was pointed out by... your attorney. It was done this way for a reason, but it also has its disadvantages. That's just my opinion, but the two are linked no matter what the rules set down at the beginning of this meeting were. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else like to address this? Yes, come on. My name is Ryan Billingsley. I live at 3113 Warwick. and I have the tendency to forget what I meant to say so I wrote some things down here. In a perfect world, the city would preserve this land. I'd like to start out by saying I really was super interested with what I heard about people coming together trying to get the money to purchase this land and working with non-profits. I hope that, I'd like to start out by saying that was very intriguing and just by that alone I'd like to vote no on this and table this so that we can pursue that a little further because in a perfect world I'd like to preserve this land. It's a very significant part of our naturally beautiful city. I grew up on Summerhill and just the idea of tearing down those woods makes me it makes me a little sad. I mean you look up here also at the guiding principles and it'll come around for in a second. I forget what exactly what it said, but preserving the ecosystem I believe and keeping a naturally beautiful city. Obviously, it's very important to us exactly what's developed in our homes, obviously. And I'm concerned about this rezoning primarily because of the incredible density of units that it allows. At this point, I'd like to commend Lucas. I think he did a really good job answering the question of besides all the drawbacks of high density being plopped down into our neighborhood, what's wrong with high density? And I think I'm a little unclear on the reasoning for doing it before the sale and before any development plans are even proposed. I'm worried it merely sets a precedent, again, while having no idea what developers even really want to do for the further zoning of the surrounding areas. And that kind of reminds me of Mr. Weigel's presentation. I enjoyed the conversation about the elderly development, but we're not rezoning for elderly or college students. So we can't really control that, right? And I'm also concerned about the reduced requirements for tree canopy if there is development that takes place. I'd ask at the very least that we vote no tonight for the sole reason that it feels like we are voting yes on something we don't even know about yet. I'm worried the city would lose leverage to deny unfavorable developments if they fit the new high-density zoning. On the other hand, if we leave it RSF for now, we might reserve the right to kind of a wait-and-see approach where we can say that would be incompatible with the neighborhood, so we're not going to rezone for that development. Kind of with the understanding or assumption that development should fit in with their surroundings. And I'd like to close by reiterating that the possibility of preserving the land sounds super interesting. I hope we pursue that further. Thank you so much. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, a couple people have thought that we're going to vote yes or no tonight on this. This is an ordinance, and it has to be read three times. Unless the rules are suspended, we go to the second and third reading, which I don't think is likely. So it will not need to be either voted on or tabled tonight. It'll probably be left on the first reading and then could be back at the next city council meeting. So we're going to be spending a lot of time together. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? My name is Anita Bugie, 1403 Meadowcliff Drive, five blocks from Rolling Hills. I want to, we have on, I'm off of Elizabeth. There are underground springs there, and I'm sure one of them is under our basement because we have spent nearly $30,000 in the last three years working on draining our basement and changing the, topography of our landscape there. There's also a large concrete drainage. It's not a ditch, but it's a pipe that goes beside our property. Well, it's the city's, really, and it's an easement. And it used to be cleaned out. They used to take good care of it, but now it's not cleaned out, and the overrun is coming down. on our property, down our, underneath some of our plants, and down our driveway, and into Meadowcliff. I'll make sure it gets cleaned out. Hmm? I'll make sure it gets cleaned out. Thank you. So I did want to ask about, are there underground springs over there? I assume you've done some kind of work on that, since we have them on three blocks away. Who's got the, Chris, you have that? Okay. We don't have that level of detailed information of what may be there. So I can't say one way or the other. Yeah, okay. Come on back up. I'll let you come back up. I'm sure you have that detail for us. Indeed, there are springs. On the 2001 geologic map of Washington County by Ms. King, there is a spring mapped. on the northern, near the northern property boundary. In addition, I live on Catherine and right there by Warwick, and there are wet weather springs that occur on those properties as well. So, yes. Thank you. All right. Yes, Chris. Now you have – So that would be something as part of a development review that would have to have some additional review. That's the information that we have available, so that's what we can say. Okay. Did you have – somebody else have some comments? Hello, I'm Olivia Trimble. I live at 2031 South Klein Avenue. So I'm going to talk about housing affordability in Fayetteville. I live on the south side where we have had all of the development pushed so that it's not in people's backyards. So we've talked about the vision for what could be, but the reality is that we need housing and we need, what is it, 12,000 units in the next four years? Yes. We have to build this stuff somewhere. We've had beautiful examples shown to us. The Mission Heights stuff is great. People can look into the Black Apple development in Bentonville when we're looking at beautiful, dense housing. But while it's important that each neighborhood has their own identity and has their own ability to control what's happening, as a community, everyone in Fayetteville has to tackle the affordable housing problem. And it's not just... students or old people who all need housing. I, last month, had to look for a new house. And while we might have a certain amount of apartments that are available, they're dumps, most of them. There's not just like a slew of nice places to live. That has to be built. So, I've done a little research. I feel like there are some ways that we can achieve affordable housing. We can zone it so that we're not creating artificial scarcity, which is what we're doing by keeping it at RSF4. We can encourage people in the neighborhoods that are affected to become small developers themselves. That's how we can control what developments go in. So I just wanted to be the lone person that encourages a rezoning to neighborhood conservation. That's it. Who else would like to address this? Everybody good? All right, let's come back to the council. Who would like to begin? Justin? I would go back to what Kit said just a few minutes ago. We've got several options here. Some people, I think, that I've talked to over the last couple of weeks thought that we should vote this up or down regardless tonight, and they pointed to the fact that it's just been a long time. And it has been a long process, but it hasn't been a long process in our type process because the way this has actually gone is fairly... well, it is really the process that should have taken place. It's a request to rezone by someone on a piece of property. They have that right to do it. There were some questionable things that were addressed and taken care of. In some cases, maybe not completely, but I want to just make sure everybody knows that i'm a little impatient when it comes to things as well but i've learned over the years and the amount of time i've spent here that the process actually is about what it should be even though it sometimes seems to take too long because in a piece of property like this it even becomes more paramount to take our time because once the property goes you don't ever get a large green space back And while I think that it can be developed at some point and will be just on the basis of the marketability of it at some point, maybe not now and maybe not the right zone is there now, I don't know that for sure. But I think to leave it on the first reading, which is one of our options, is – the best idea. We can table it for a defined period of time as well, as was suggested by a couple of people. But what I'm worried about is if you table it, why are you tabling it? Are you waiting for someone to come up with a green space design or a group or whatever? There's a million different ways that we could do that, but that's not really fair to the developer and the owner either. And I do want to say that I think that's important in the city that we are not punishing an owner or developer for simply trying to sell their land in the best possible way. That's okay. I mean, if you had a car, you would want as many marketing opportunities as possible to sell that car if you really wanted to sell it. And I would want to respect that. But I would also want to respect the thousands of people that have voiced their opinion either here tonight or at the town hall meetings or through emails and phone calls. You did exactly what you should have done. You got involved. And so that is certainly not lost on me. And I think that we certainly need to either leave it here. I think leaving it here is the safest bet. It would be what I would be for. I know that that moves things another two weeks but it does give more time for conversation it does give more time for city staff and other people to look at possible opportunities and it gives more time for you to interact with us and the city staff and and people which i know you're not afraid to do so you That's my hope that we can leave it here for two weeks, but I want people to know that I'm not doing it just to delay it, because why not come back in two weeks and talk about it some more? We don't like delaying things either for the developer owner or for the citizen, but I think it's the best thing to do tonight is to take another two weeks and then maybe another two weeks after that, And then who knows what happens. I'm not convinced either way right now. And I wouldn't feel comfortable voting right now anyway. So that's just my opinion, and I appreciate the council's attention to it. Okay, Mark. I want to reiterate also that I'm empathetic with those of you that think this is a slow process. And I was president of a neighborhood association before I got on city council. where Wilson Park neighborhood association that experienced a lot of pressure in changes with the growth of the university. So, I WAS A LEADER IN NEIGHBORHOOD ACTIVISM VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT YOU ALL HAVE, AND I HAVE DEEP RESPECT FOR IT. AND I WANT YOU TO KNOW, I'VE ALWAYS SAID THIS, IF YOU WANT TO KNOW ABOUT A NEIGHBORHOOD, GO TALK TO THE NEIGHBORS. AT THE SAME TIME, THIS IS TALKING ABOUT DEVELOPMENT, SO WE ALSO HAVE TO RESPECT THE OWNER. THAT'S WHAT I THINK ALL OF US UP HERE ON THE CITY COUNCIL SIDE, WE'RE TRYING TO BALANCE. I've checked. I don't have a magic wand and I don't have a crystal ball. And none of us do. And when we talk about zoning, one of the most valid things that I heard this evening that we've got to reiterate is we're talking about the long-term impact of zoning, not what ifs, not what could be, not what's. the best-case scenario, not the worst-case scenario. But they're all important. We've got to consider them, and then we've got to put a balance to them. So that's why your input is very important, and I think that all of us up here respect that as long as we're civil about it. And I always talk about Fayetteville being a very engaged community. If you travel into other communities, Sometimes people make fun of it because we talk things to death. We don't talk things to death. We talk through things so that we have a vision and then we can meet the vision that is appropriate for our community and appropriate for our neighborhoods, or at least that's what I ideally think whenever I look at the process. So, I also think that we should leave this on the first reading. We should gather more information from the neighbors. We should look at possibilities from anyone from the development point of view where they have the opportunity to answer any questions based on zoning. I like PZDs, but they are expensive. And from a banker's point of view, financing a project through a PZD is not always the easiest thing because there's the risk associated with it, but there's also the upfront cost. But they are a very valid tool that we saw earlier in the past, as mentioned, and we're going to continue to do that. And they've kind of gone by the wayside. And we saw many of these PZDs fail in the housing market collapse. And so I think that's one reason that a developer would be wary, because how do you get it financed? But we're in a different era in our economy. So I just wanted to express that I don't want anyone to be frustrated if we delay this and keep it on the first reading. Thank you. And I want to encourage everyone to continue in a very civil manner to send valid arguments so that we can look at both sides of the equation. So thanks. Okay, Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. So, you know, with some of the questions I asked, you know, the answer is yes. I was trying to elicit a certain answer, and it's because – Sometimes some of the things that I'm hearing seem like a proxy for arguments that aren't being made directly. And I want to just be completely honest in a raw way with everybody. I need and I think we need to hear what your most basic direct concerns are for us to be able to give your concerns or do consideration. Okay. And it's not the case, it is not the case that I believe that traffic is an illegitimate concern or any of the other things that are illegitimate concerns. But if your basic concern or one of your basic concerns is renters or what might happen if you have multifamily development or what might happen if you have closer housing than what you're used to, we need to hear those things. And I think sometimes... And this is completely natural. I think sometimes conversations like this feel like a negotiation. And in a negotiation, everyone tries to hold their cards really close and only play the cards that they think are going to be very impactful with people that have to make the decision. And that's us. We have to make that decision. But we need to know what you really think about all of these different issues. And the wide variety of them. So if you're in a position where you're trying to figure out what is going to make, what's going to be most salient to us, that's okay. Talk about those things too, but also talk about what is most salient to you because we need to have that conversation. And that's why I ask hypothetical questions because I'm really trying to boil down what is salient to you. And we've heard some of those things tonight, and I hope we hear more of them. Also, because I've been involved in some of the other conversations that have preceded this, and I know some of the criticisms that have been leveled against the Planning Commission and some of the other people involved, I want to tell everybody tonight, look, I'm a developer by profession. That's my career. Some of you might be tempted to think that that means I have an interest in this property. I don't. I have no interest in this property. In fact, I would make more money if no development ever happened in the community except for what I've already built. Because as the supply is constrained, I know some people might disagree with this, but as the supply is constrained, I get to charge more rent. Now, I'm not... I AM TASKED BY VIRTUE OF BEING A COUNCIL MEMBER TO CONSIDER THE WHOLE COMMUNITY WHICH IS WHY I'M ASKING THESE QUESTIONS AND WHY I'M TRYING TO CONSIDER WHAT SUPPLY MEANS FOR OVERALL HOUSING PRICES, WHICH I THINK IS VERY IMPORTANT. BUT I WANT TO DISCLOSE ALL THAT. I WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR THAT IF I VOTE FOR THIS REZONING, IT HURTS MY FINANCIAL INTEREST AS A DEVELOPER BECAUSE I'M NOT INTERESTED IN THIS PROPERTY. I HAVE OTHER PROPERTIES THAT ARE IN COMPETITION WITH THIS. The last thing I want to say is, you know, the reason I'm horning in again or in extension, the reason I'm horning in on some of these hypotheticals is because I'm hearing different things from all the people that live close to this. Just tonight, even in the public comments, we heard things ranging from maybe multifamily wouldn't be so bad to any houses that are close together would be incompatible. Just to give you the two extremes of the spectrum. And that's okay. We often hear things that are very different. People have a lot of different viewpoints. Just because two people live in the same neighborhood doesn't mean they think the same. But I think it needs to be discussed. It's kind of an elephant that the neighborhood, people in the neighborhood feel differently than what might be apparent. And I think some of the posts that have been made in some of the Facebook groups recently corroborate that. Certainly some of the phone calls I've had from people corroborate that. And the comments that we've had tonight corroborate that. And to echo... Councilmember Kenyans and Councilmember Tennant's comments, I think we're all, if I can presume for a second for those of us that haven't spoken, I think we're all kind of desperate to implore everybody to still remember that one way or another we're all neighbors. And if this rezoning doesn't happen, it's not the end of the world. It's not the end of the world for affordability. It's not the end of the world for anything. And if the rezoning does happen, it's also not the end of the world for a lot of things. One way or another, we're going to get to a decision, and I definitely support not making that decision tonight because that's our standard process. So I hope we'll continue the conversation in more or less the manner we've had tonight. And I hope we can learn more. about what the most basic concerns you have might be. And the very last thing I want to say is, maybe directly to the property owner and his representative, when I ask the question, roughly in round numbers, 240, 250 units, parcels allowed to be created on the site today, I'll tell you straight out, I'll trade with you. And I would vote personally to allow you to build more units if you could commit to protecting all of the ecological features that we've talked about. And if you want to move those units around in any way, concentrate them in not any way, but almost any way, you can be very flexible with it. As long as the number of units is more or less preserved, I might even be inclined to give you some bonus units if you could protect those features that are so important. And that's a deal that we can strike now if it's something that you're interested in doing, but it's something that you have to lead on. And with that, I look forward to the rest of the conversation. I was just going to add a point that from the notes of the questions taken, we will reach out to the Fayetteville Public School District. When we had our joint meeting between the council and the school district, they offered to come speak specifically to their school demographic study, if there were things that were pertinent to you and your decision making. Their study specifically looks at school demographics. capacity, how the town will develop. In fact, on page 27 of that study is a report that talks specifically about this site and its development and its potential impact on Happy Hollow. But they are the experts to speak on their own demographic study and their own school capacity. That's an item that's come up multiple times. And since you're going to leave it on the first reading, we'll reach out to them and see if they might be willing educate all of us, the public and the council and the staff, on that particular issue that's been brought forward. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's been a very good discussion, and I appreciate all y'all coming out. This is probably not the most exciting thing you could be doing tonight, so thanks for coming. And I realize we're talking about your homes, we're talking about where you live, where you play, where you raise your children, your grandchildren. And you want it to be safe, and you want it to be comfortable, and you want it to be pleasant. And it's what's already been expressed by other members of the council. We disagree about a lot of things. But this we can all agree on. We're neighbors. Let's try to be good neighbors to each other. People make comments that had negative implications to renters. I like Matthew. He's a good guy. I have neighbors in my own neighborhood who are my closest neighbors, and they rent. And they watch my dog all the time for me and don't charge me. They're great folks. They're great friends. I don't think we can classify people or ascribe some characteristics to people because they have a particular method that they pay for their home, through rent or through ownership. So let's dispel that notion. There was another proposition offered tonight that I'd like to take up and debate. that supply and demand have no impact on the price of homes. That is ludicrous. That breaks every economic principle taught at the University of Arkansas that I've ever heard of, and taught by Milton Friedman, a Nobel laureate in economics, and many other learned people in the field of economics. Supply and demand is the primary determinant of price in a marketplace. And if we turn down developments after developments after developments... you'll find that the value of your home goes up. That's good for the tax collector. If you're not planning to sell, that's not necessarily good for you. And it makes it hard for other people to move to Fayetteville. I like speaking for people who don't have a voice. We heard from everybody who lives in the neighborhood tonight. But what about the people who would like to be your neighbor? They're not here tonight. They don't know about this controversy. What about them? What about those who won't be able to afford to move to Fayetteville because we're not building enough housing to keep prices moderate? That they'll have to move to Farmington or Springdale or someplace where the prices are moderate. What about them? I mean, let's think about them. I know they don't vote for us and they're not contributing to us yet, but they are still people. And we still, I think, have a duty to be a good neighbor to all of our fellow men. So it's just a little different perspective. I appreciate everybody coming out and This is what we need, is robust debate. If we all agreed on something, there'd be no debate. So I appreciate you all being here, and let's continue the debate. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. And, John, it's rare, but I'm going to say I agree with you on that. the supply and demand issue is pretty basic but we also have a limited diversity in our housing stock that i think plays into some of the constrained demands that we heard about from our last last speaker and i know there's some question about a projected growth and i'm going to read this i've got some highlighting on the table of contents already and i'm looking forward to it but let's let's play out the idea that the growth numbers that we're anticipating are accurate. Matthew, you probably have better numbers on these than I do. This is just my back of the napkin calculation. If we're getting about five people a day in this city, it looks like we need somewhere around 500 housing units a year. Is that completely out of line? No, that's not out of line. It's probably on the lower end of the range. That's what I was thinking. The number seems so big that I toned it down because I thought the 650 I was coming up with seemed outrageous. If we were to build all of those out at four units per acre, we'd be looking at 125 acres of new neighborhood per year. Just to put that in perspective, that is all of the residential units between Rolling Hills and Stubblefield. Or in green space terms, out on the west side of town, that is all of the green space on the south side of Mount Comfort from the Henbest property that we rezoned a few weeks ago all the way to Bridgeport. That's a huge space of land that we're looking at. annually by those numbers at RSS4. And that's what my concern is with that particular zoning classification when we talk about land conservation. We can't continue to conserve land and build on it at that density at the same time. And not all development is going to be in that style, and not all of it is going to be in the same spot. Those are very extreme illustrations. But when we look at these decisions going on, we're going to have to consider the higher density options as our standard if we're going to keep up the growth. So I'm glad that we're going to hold this tonight. This is our standard procedure, and I'm excited by the options to... for someone else to come along and acquire this for conservation. But I just want to be realistic with the impact of the RSF4 as our historical standard. Thanks. Okay. Anybody else? All right, I would like to make one comment on PZDs. I know that we don't use them much anymore, but when I was brand new on the council, we lived off of them. because I had explosive growth on the west side of town. I mean really explosive growth. And we had a few of these types of meetings, so I began to put, we would go with the PZD, which was a new type of zoning we would do. And it worked well in Ward 4 on the west side of town because, well, we had some contentious issues out there. when we started doing all this, had all this explosive growth, and when we would get a PZD, that Shirley Lucas and I, she was really a fantastic council member. She has passed away now, but we worked really hard in that ward. And what we would do, we would put the neighborhood, the developers, us, in a room every week or two until we hammered something out. But we came along with, that takes a lot of time. So we came up with the new zoning classifications where you're not spending every week or hours trying to work something out. That was one of the things I remember. But now the PZDs are a little bit easier. But they do work, and it just takes a lot of patience with them. I realize, and there is two or three issues that I have some concerns about. I think I do have some concerns about the environment. on that hillside. I really do. But that's kind of my background and kind of my thing. I think I want to be sure that we don't have flooding issues out there. Ma'am, where do you live again? I'm sorry. I want to be sure to get your address to clean out your... Yeah. East Middle... Oh, sorry. Yeah. We'll find it. I'll make sure it gets cleaned out. But I realize that this has been a highly contentious issue, but some of the things that I heard tonight was very interesting, and I think some of the issues that we need to address, and we'll get to that in the next discussion, is we do need to address that intersection on Rolling Hills and Old Missouri. And I think we do that with stoplight. I think we need to have a safe school crossing. Now, the overcrowding of the school, that was kind of new for me, and we'll look into that. But I also think that we need traffic calming on rolling hills as well. So that's three things that I see that we need to be looking at and also looking at that hillside to make sure we don't. have erosion issues. But that's kind of what I took away from this. But I know that we're going to be looking at the street, but those will be three things. I know this administration has heard in the public comments that we will be looking at. That's the next item. So we will be back in two weeks. And I'm sure some of you all will stick around for the street. So let me find my... Okay, let's move along to new business now. The first item of new business is a resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by downgrading the Rolling Hills Drive-Skilloran Road corridor from principal arterial to collector status and by shifting the alignment of the corridor to connect along Oak Bailey Drive. Matthew. Oh, do we need to let staff go? Yeah, do we? Staff? I think planning actually presented this to planning commission. Mr. Garner is prepared to do the staff presentation if that's your desire. Yeah, let's do that and then fair enough. All right, Andrew. I do have a lengthy presentation on this. I don't know if you want – I'm happy to give it or if the council wants to wait until it comes back from the street committee. We're happy to – however you want to proceed. It is my understanding at the agenda session. that the council would like to table this and send it to the transportation committee to look at the road. Is that? Yes. I want to be sure we're all tracking on the same thing. Go ahead. I was going to ask you a question as well, both of you. As chairman of the transportation committee and with what Andrew was talking about with a That's something we're going to see at the transportation committee? Yes. Okay. Yeah. That's just what I, if we're going to see it at transportation anyway and then see it back here, then. Okay. Well, in that case, I'm going to go ahead and make a motion to send this to the transportation committee or I'm sure the city attorney will tell us we don't even need a motion to do that. No, you did need a motion to table it. No, it's a resolution. Okay. Well, then my motion will be to table it for two weeks. UNTIL THE NEXT MEETING. SAME TIME WE'LL TAKE UP THE REZONING DISCUSSION. AND THE REASON BEING IS IT IS STANDARD POLICY THAT ANY TIME THE MASTER STREET PLAN IS PROPOSED TO BE AMENDED, WHETHER THAT'S TO ADD A STREET OR REMOVE A STREET OR CHANGE A CLASSIFICATION, THE STANDARD POLICY IS FOR THAT TO GO THROUGH THE TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE, WHICH IS FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS, ONE FROM EACH WARD. And we would have reviewed it at last month's Transportation Committee meeting, but I, when asked by our city engineer if we should put it on the agenda, it was the only item we had to discuss, and I didn't realize how soon we would be taking this up at the full council. And so I canceled that meeting and directed him not to put it on the agenda. So we'll be taking it up at the next Transportation Committee meeting, which is next week. Okay. And that's after the agenda session on Tuesday? That's correct. The agenda session is the Transportation Committee. All right. Do we have a second on the motion? Cop? Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to table. The Rolling Hills. drive-scoring road corridor for two weeks, correct? And go to the Transportation Committee. Yes, Mayor. And the Transportation Committee falls in between these two meetings, so we'll discuss it and then be right back here on schedule. Okay. All right. Any discussion on it? All right. Senators, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. The Transportation Committee is next. And the motion passed, so it will be to the Transportation Committee next Tuesday and then back here the Tuesday after that. So we'll see this again in two weeks, and it'll go to the Transportation Committee between now and yesterday. I just wanted to clarify is the process this goes to the transportation committee and then the transportation committee makes a recommendation and it comes back back to to the city council members make a recommendation to themselves from which maybe to another is right yeah okay and And is the Transportation Committee meeting in public? It's a public meeting. And when is that? Next Tuesday. Next Tuesday at what time? We've got to do the agenda session, which usually we start at 4.30. And it'll take us until... I don't know. Say 530 or so. Okay, thank you. You're very welcome. May I say one thing? Yes. I feel like it would be a good idea or responsible of me to explain the Transportation Committee process just a little bit. It's probably unfamiliar to a lot of people. Transportation Committee is an open meeting. It's a public meeting. Anybody can attend. As the chairman, I do take public comment on any item. So anybody who wants to have a chance to give public comment is. The rules for public comment there are the same as they are here, but we do our best to hear from everybody so we can collect all the opinions. We do make a recommendation typically on items like this back to the council. That's not always unanimous. It's more typical that it's not unanimous, and that factors in. And there are occasions where we have not been able to reach a consensus at all, and and we sent it back to the commission to the council for its for the full vote without a recommendation. The reason we send things to the Transportation Committee is because it's a venue that is more amenable to highly technical discussions without getting really into the weeds of the politics of things. So we'll consider the technical merits at the Transportation Committee and probably get a little bit into the politics, but that's not the focus like it might be here at the And I'll send three recommendations along with the street plan that I just talked about. Okay. Justin. And somebody can correct me, Don. This may be a question for you. Those are televised, but they're not live, correct? That is correct. That's still the case. So you can watch it. You just can't watch it. Correct. If you want to participate real time, you have to be present. But you can't see it on the channel. It will play. Okay. I'll probably stay over for that one as well okay thank you all moving along to number two Resolution Award, bid number 18-26, to authorize the purchase of LED trail light fixtures from AmeriLux Exterior LLC in the amount of $1,140 per 40-watt light fixture and $1,150 per 60-watt light fixture. To authorize the purchase of fiberglass light poles in the amount of $400 per pole from a Alliance deposits incorporated plus footfall sales taxes is needed through the end of 2018 Thank You mayor council Move the arm up the arm. Okay We do have a Citizen who would like to speak about this, but I guess that'd be later. You want me to kind of cover it first? Okay. Yep. Gotcha. I So this is lighting mostly for the Neocostco Creek Trail that will be connecting from Old Missouri Road, extending the Mud Creek Trail around to Goalie Park. We have a section where along Sweetfire Drive that we actually had to take some lights out, some Sweppco lights and we want to try to get some new lights in there relatively quickly for those residents. Part of this is we have been looking at different temperatures of light. So there's a Kelvin temperature and we actually switched to 4,000 Kelvin lighting on Mud Creek Trail. And Peter Nearingarten, the sustainability department director, and I myself went out and looked at them. We really like the light output of the 4,000. It also meets the requirements for the trail safety requirements. established by AASHTO, which is a half a foot candle of light at 100 foot spacing of poles. So, we feel like we're coming down and getting closer to the warmer light. I don't know how much detail we want to get into the specifics of the light output, but currently we're looking at 4000 Kelvin light for these fixtures. That keeps us at the 100 foot spacing and gets us the coverage we need for the trail safety at the lower wattage that's energy efficient. We did do a study at the 3,000 Kelvin, which is going to be a more orange light, and it comes in at not meeting quite our coverage for safety. It would require our pole spacing to be at 90 feet instead of 100, or conversely we would have to up the wattage of the lights, which would not go with the energy savings that we're trying to accomplish. Okay. What questions do we have from Matt on this one? What public comment do we have on this? Hi there, council. My name is Houston Hughes. I live at 888 West Lawson Street. Thank you for sticking around for this very contentious and room packing debate about lighting. Outdoor lighting is important to the safety and usability of the trails and the health of the people who use them. Thankfully, the design of the light fixtures in this purchasing bid complies not only with the standards that Fayetteville has already set for itself, but also newer, more stringent standards set by national groups like the Illumination Engineering Society of North America, which is the only outside group that is currently cited in Fayetteville's lighting ordinance. However, this bid, as well as a pair of bids that passed the council last month, specified that they will use the 4,000 degree Kelvin color-related temperature bulbs, as Matt talked about. Every light bulb has an associated color temperature, or CCT. Higher temperatures are more blue-rich and bright white colored, while lower temperatures are more yellow or amber-hued. If you want an example of that right here in this chamber, those lights right up there are your more bright white lights, and the ones right over you guys are the more amber-hued lights. Okay. Fayetteville recently undertook a lighting comfort study and as a result stepped down from the previous 5,000 Kelvin standard to the 4,000 Kelvin. I applaud this step, but it is still above the 3,000 Kelvin upper maximum recommended for street lights and trail lights by a large number of groups, including the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the American Medical Association, and the Illumination Engineering Society of North America, which this bid actually includes their recommendation the fixture as a selling point, and yet does not meet the light color standard. More amber-hued lights increase trail safety. They help humans maintain their night vision better and allow them to see farther under lower lighting conditions. Under more amber-hued lights, your eyes can make out details from further away and can better detect motion, even in the unlit areas beside a trail. But bright white lights decimate your ability to see beyond that immediate cone of light, and once you walk outside of that cone, your eyes will take longer to adjust to the dark. Bright white lights also create harder shadows, making it more difficult to see who or what is in those shadows. Recent science has shown a very strong link between nighttime exposure to bright white lights and a number of health issues, including increased risks of cancer, depression, obesity, and interruption of sleep patterns. Using amber-hued lights decreases these effects significantly. This is why newer phones come with a nighttime mode that removes most of the blue light. And while bright light along a trail may feel safer, research has not borne this out. Studies from multiple American cities show no correlation between increased or brighter lights and a decrease in crime. And in a study of Chicago alleyways, crime increased when newer, brighter lights were installed. The study concluded that either criminals also like brighter lights because it makes people thereafter feel safer, or the same amount of crime was happening, but now more people could see it. I recently raised these concerns with Matt, the trails coordinator, and he and Leif Olson and I had a very productive conversation, and my understanding is that trails is now looking into options for continuing to decrease the standard CCT for the city and may even be adding a 3000K lamp. to this order for testing. I'm immensely grateful for their responsiveness and openness on this issue. Matt also informed me that this particular purchase is an emergency of sorts, replacing some lights that have already been taken down, and as such I will not ask the council to oppose this specific purchasing order. However, I ask that the council very carefully consider any future purchase of lights which specify a color temperature greater than the 3,000 Kelvin recommended maximum. Because of new and overwhelming evidence regarding safety and health, cities like New York and Philadelphia, who were early adopters of bright white LEDs, are now having to go back and remove those lights at no small expense to citizens. I do not want us to have to do the same. Thirteen years ago, when Fayetteville adopted Chapter 176 of the Unified Development Code, which covers lighting restrictions, LED technology was still in its infancy. Now it is the lighting standard, and we continue each year to learn more about its potential benefits and downsides. I would ask that in the near future the City revisit its rules on outdoor lighting to provide clarity in light of newer technologies, to update some now obsolete definitions, and to consider what other updates might be made to keep the commitment set forward at the beginning of Chapter 176, specifically the protection of citizens and the reduction of atmospheric light pollution. I hope to see our city take the necessary steps to curb light pollution and reclaim the natural night sky of our natural state. And while trail color may seem like a very small thing, it is a small step like this that sets us on the path to being better stewards of our city, of our planet, and of our fellow human beings. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to address us on this?
 Okay. Going back to the council. Here we are. Okay. Matthew. Oh, yeah. Thank you, Mayor. I'm sensitive to the issue and I'm glad that we're studying it and that we've already stepped down from 5,000 Kelvin. I'm very optimistic that we would be able to step all the way down to 3,000 or even lower after we do some testing. light output should be identical to you know specifications or the specs so I really don't foresee any problems there I'm going to support the resolution on the basis of we can go ahead and get this done and test the 3000 and do it for all the rest okay and with that I'll make a motion to approve I will second that we have a motion to second to pass the resolution any final comments on it okay thank you Houston for commenting on that um no final comments if Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number three, an ordinance is laid to require a formal competitive bidding and to approve a purchase of 51 Zebra Model 520 e-ticket printers and two handheld e-ticket buses from Advanced Public Safety Incorporated in the amount of $62,700. $139 to approve a budget adjustment kit. Whereas the city has utilized Zebra printers and devices for use with the city's e-ticket system since 2006, but parts and maintenance for the old Model 420 printers are no longer available. And whereas the Zebra products are the only products guaranteed to ensure compatibility and continuity with the city's existing e-ticket system, And Advanced Public Safety is the only supplier that can include the firmware, locking vehicle cradles, and warranties for these products. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the purchase of 51 Zebra Model 520 e-ticket printers and two handheld e-ticket devices from Advanced Public Safety Incorporated in the amount of Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fevella October hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance. Okay. Chief. Mayor, Council, several years ago we started using electronic ticket software in our cars, and basically what it does, it allows the officer to just swipe a driver's license and a registration instead of entering the data and writing the data. So that does several things. First, we can read the writing on it is the first thing, and then obviously it automatically uploads into our RMS. And what these printers do that are in each car is actually prints the copy a copy of the ticket to give to the violators what these printers in the cars do. The second part is the handheld printer, or the handheld computer units. And for our officers like on bicycles and motors that don't have laptops, they actually issue the ticket off this little handheld device about the size of an iPhone. As most of you know, or all of you know, we recently increased our patrols down on Dixon Street and added a couple of officers down there. So those two additional officers down there need these handheld units to be able to issue citations down there. The reason for the bid waiver, I think Kit talked about most of them. Obviously, it's what we have. It's what the officers are used to. We know it works with our system and to be compatible with our system and what the officers are used to. And like he also said, the firmware is already installed and we know it works. That's why we're asking for the bid waiver, and I'll be happy to answer any questions or cry to you. What questions do we have with the chief on this? Thank you. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Okay. I move that we go to the second reading. Well, I always appreciate it when they give me a ticket I can read, so I will second that. Have you had problems in the past? Only a couple. It's been a while. I take that as a second. I have a motion to second. I'm going to second, Ray. Do we do background checks on this? Sorry. Sorry. Please call the roll. Do you have a motion? I don't know. I don't know. Yes. Yes. Yes, ma'am. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding... And approve the purchase of 51 Zebra Model 520 e-ticket printers and two handheld e-ticket devices from Advanced Public Safety Incorporated in the amount of $62,739 and to approve a budget adjustment. Yes. Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. John. Second the motion, Mayor. We have a motion to second and go to third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes What kind of comments do we have in the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number four, an ordinance to waive the requirements for a competitive B and to approve a contract with Kachira International Incorporated in the amount of $34,925 for planimetric mapping services to identify impervious surfaces and building footprints throughout the city. Kit? Whereas identifying impervious surfaces and building footprints will assist with drainage design and analysis both for the City of Fayetteville projects and private developments. and whereas the City previously contracted with Kucera International Incorporated to obtain geographic information system aerial imagery in 2016 and 2017, which will reduce the cost for further services because Kucera already has the imagery and terrain models needed to collect additional data. and whereas in september of 2017 after reviewing eight proposals the northwest arkansas regional planning commission selected kucera to provide regional planometric data services like those sought by the city now and kucera has offered to provide its services to the city of fable under the same terms and conditions now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the Mayor to sign a contract, a copy of which is attached here to you and made part hereof, between the City and Coursera International Incorporated in the amount of $35,925.00 for planimetric mapping services to identify impervious surfaces and building footprints throughout the city. Thank you. Mayor and council, I'm keeping the seat of the IT director for the city. I'm not in front of you too often, so I thought I'd mention who I am. But Kit did a very good job explaining kind of how we got here. This is an item to collect planometric data for a GIS system with the primary goal of collecting an impervious cover layer for a GIS. This includes things such as edge of pavement, sidewalks, medians, and any building footprint that's larger than 100 square feet. And as Kent mentioned, Northwest Regional Planning Commission bid this out last summer and we're utilizing the same terms and conditions from their contract that they awarded to three local entities. Okay. What questions do we have for Keith? Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Mark. I just wanted to mention that as we move forward in looking at the possibility, it's just a possibility, of our stormwater management utility, this could be very important information to have because we're looking at impervious area as far as looking at how we're managing stormwater runoff. So it's very timely to go ahead and invest in this. So when we look at a study to see... how we're going, or if we're going to move forward with that, we'll have some good data. Can you comment on that, that we are working with Chris Brown Engineering to try to make sure that we get the data in time for that study? That's great. Thanks. And I would move that we go to the second reading. I'll second. All right, we have a motion to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I move we go to the third and final reading. And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Cucera International Incorporated in the amount of $34,925 for planimetric mapping services to identify impervious surfaces and building footprints throughout the city. Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Senate. Yes. Retire. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in Resolution Condition RZN 18-6122 for approximately 56.02 acres located at southeast and southwest of Ruppel Road and Mount Comfort Road from RSF 4, residential single family, 40-inch per acre, to RSF 1, residential single family, 1-unit per acre, and RA, residential agricultural, to CS, community services, and RA, residential agricultural. Okay. Okay. be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from residential single family four units per acre residential single family one unit per acre and residential agricultural to about 41.8 acres of CS community services and about 13.8 acres of RA residential agricultural. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are to hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Mr. Mayor, Council, this rezoning application is at the intersection of Mount Comfort Road and Ruppel Road. The reconstruction of Ruppel Road is going to follow the alignment. This is the right-of-way here. The eastern parcel is presently zoned RF4, and it's proposed to be rezoned at CS Community Services and Residential Agriculture. And the western parcel is presently zone RSF1, and it's also going to the same two districts. City plan designates this as city neighborhood area, residential area, and natural area. The city neighborhood area anticipates commercial and residential building types coexisting in harmony. And the natural area is proposed for conservation along Hamstring Creek. The community services district is a farm-based zoning district, which is intended to advance the goal of traditional town form. This is the actual land use designation and the comprehensive plan, blue is the city neighborhood, residential is residential neighborhood area, and then the natural areas are designated as green. Issues is a large area of residential, presently zoned residential to mixed use. It is in an area that is lacking neighborhood services and personal services. It also proposes to zone the low-lying areas along Hamstring Creek to preserve those areas from intense development. And the RA also works with the Streamside Protection and Conservation Development. of the City of Fayetteville, which has an additional 50-foot setback. We had a question late this afternoon from Councilmember Smith for some examples of buildings that have been built in the CS Zoning District. This is Beachwood south of MLK, and it is a residential project. This is at Box and Mission, and it's a commercial project. Here is also MLK and Beachwood, I believe, and it is also a commercial project. And here's another example in the MLK area. So, I think in summary, we're getting certainly superior development with the CS community services zoning district than we used to get under its counterpart conventional zone, which was the C1 zoning district. The buildings are on the street. The sidewalk is addressed. The street is addressed. And landscaping kind of mitigates the impact of the buildings. So with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval as requested. Okay. What questions do we have from council on this? Any public comment that we have on this? Sorry, Mayor, I was slow hitting my button. Oh, all right. I mean, let me ask the applicant. Yeah, go ahead. Hang on. Yeah, I just wanted to ask Garner a real quick question. The pictures that we came up with are all that very boxy style that we have people with mixed reviews of. I think I already know the answer to this, but that style is nowhere in the zoning requirement. It's just the way that it's positioned on the street. There are no architectural requirements. There are requirements for a build-to line, which means the building has to be from 0 to 25 feet from the city right away. So when we look at those pictures, we're looking at the position and the form, not necessarily the style of the building. Yes. Okay. I do think that's a very important factor when staff or council are showing pictures because we don't have design standards that require a certain type of build, and we don't want that to be misleading to people. I think it's probably a factor of the time we're in and the current trend, so that's what we're getting right now. Okay. Now I'll take some public comment. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and City Council. This is our second time to come through with this rezoning request, and so I know we have some new members on the council, so I wanted to go over a couple of the items. My wife and I own the property, Jim Hazen and Judy Hazen. It's at 2160 Ruppel Road. We're longtime residents. We've been on this property for 25 years and in Fayetteville from 30 to 40 years. We're a long-time resident. We plan on continuing to live on the property, so what goes in is very important to us. And we want to make sure it's something that we can live with and our neighbors can live with. We've reached a point in our lives where it's time for this property to get to a better use than just being farm property. The Planning Commission passed it 7-1 the first time and unanimously on the second. It's at the intersection of two four-lane highways, and all the utilities are there. Because over the years, we've been used as a... crossing zone for the subdivisions have gone in so we have major sewer gas lines water lines electrical lines we've tried to meet the 2030 plan and we've tried to mirror that but with the emphasis on space for green space and trails to protect the creek and to meet the needs of our community and the requirements of such a space we're asking for rezoning it all at once so that we can encourage an investor to come in be willing to take the risk to make this into a unique property, a unique development in Fayetteville. I've contacted each of our budding neighbors, because they're the ones that are going to be closest to what happens here. And if you could use your pointer, please. There's a warehouse right here on the end, up to your left, that's owned by Doug Williams of Wynn's Tractor. And then as you move across, I've talked to Tony Harden and... Ed Glinson and then George Fawcett, I think he sent a letter or email to the mayor and the council members. Next to that is Larry West and then there's a space that's already zoned commercial services right next to it at the corner of Salem and Mount Comfort. And then we sold the property to Pathway Baptist Church and they put in a daycare center there. So it's this sort of thing that we're trying to do. It's to In fact, all these people support this project. And we're trying to put in services, which are scarce in this area. Everybody has to travel a mile or two away just to get basic services. And it's got to be something that my wife and I can live next to and enjoy and be proud of. So that's our goal. And if you have any questions, I'm here to answer them. Okay. Any questions? Yes. I don't have a question, but I have a comment. I want to thank you, Mr. Hazen, for working with city staff, Chris Brown and our city staff, to sell your property for the right-of-way that we needed for Rupel Road. We appreciate you working with the city and doing that. I might add, during the appraisal process, the appraisal company said community service was the best and highest use for the property. Okay. What other public comment do we have on this? Hi, I'm Tony Hardin. I live directly across from Jim at 3670 West Mount Comfort. Actually, it's the intersection of Ruppel and Mount Comfort. I've lived there going on 50 years, so I've seen a lot of change out there. And I think Jim's project would be an excellent change for the neighborhood. A lot of people do have to travel farther to go eat or get gas or just simple things. And I think that would actually maybe cut down on some of the traffic around. So that's about all I've got to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Bill. I move that we move this to the second reading. Okay. John. Yes. Motion, Mayor. I have a motion and a second to move to second reading. Please call the roll. Sorry. There you go. All right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, that passed. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6122 for approximately 56.02 acres located at southeast and southwest of Rufo Road and Mount Comfort Road from residential single family four units per acre, residential single family one unit per acre, and residential agricultural to community services and residential agricultural. I just wanted a chance to explain why I voted no on the moving to the next reading. Interestingly, the only feedback I've had on this has been in favor of it, the direct feedback, though there was some neighborhood concern after the final agenda link went out. The Hazens were fantastic to come to. Gosh, it's been a while. Was it our January Ward 4 meeting where they sort of introduced us to the project and took some questions? I'm generally in favor of this. I think that when we hit a four lane, like you said, two four lane roads up there, we're investing a lot in that and this is probably the right direction to go out there. But I'd like to give the neighbors a chance to come. Now that they're aware of it, we've got one more Ward 4 meeting before the next city council meeting and that would put us, I guess now we're second reading, wherever we're at after that, past. Would you like to hold it? I would just because the biggest concerns there that it would be not another Weddington and I think we can alleviate some of those concerns by explaining that the A lot of the stuff that's there on Weddington was not developed under any of these codes. Not another Weddington seems to have become code for no development or no services, just residential. I think we could go a long way to address that. Okay. John. Sorry to disagree with my fellow ward court aldermen. But Mr. Hazen has been working on this project for probably four years or longer, as long as I've been on this council. I mean, we've talked about it and we've talked about it. I don't see what delaying another two weeks is going to accomplish. I think we need to – it's a good proposal. We're protecting streamside. We're protecting green space. We're doing all those things. And when I was campaigning out there, if I needed to go to the bathroom, I almost didn't make it. There's no place to go. Okay, there are no services out there. We need services out there. And I'd like to see it go ahead and go. So I'd encourage us not to hold it. Okay. Well, that's everybody you want to do here. I move that we go to the second reading, third and final reading. Okay. We have a second. Okay, we'll hold it right here then. Okay, moving along to number six. An ordinance to amend 156.04, physical alteration of land and stormwater drains and erosion control of Chapter 156 variances 166.02, development review process of Chapter 166 development and various sections of Chapter 169 physical alteration of land of the federal... Unified Development Code to clarify the approval process for grading permits and to generally require development approval prior to the issuance of grading permits and to make administrative changes. Whereas the Unified Development Code currently allows grading permits to be issued prior to development approval, and whereas this has resulted in a loophole that has allowed site grading without staff or the Planning Commission reviewing plans for conformance with all Unified Development Code requirements, And whereas clarification of code sections pursuant to their stated intent and purpose strengthens the development review process. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 156.01 by inserting the following language at the beginning of the section. Quote, A variance of the requirements of Sections 16602 and 16903 requiring development approval prior to the issuance of grading permit may be granted by the Planning Commission subject to the general requirements of Section 16603. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-October hereby amend Section 16602D2 by repealing the title of the subsection and replacing it with, quote, Preliminary plat, large-scale development, and small or large site improvement plans, unquote. Section 3, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 16901B by replacing, quote, and cutting or similar activities, unquote, with excavation or land alteration of any kind. Section 4, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 16903 permits required and exceptions, and enact a replacement Section 16903 as follows. Subsection A, permit required unless exempted by Section 16903C, all grading, clearing, filling, excavation, and land alteration of any kind, shall require one, prior development approval as specified in Chapter 166, except for general grading to an existing developed site that does not impact trees or floodplains and does not significantly alter the natural landform. Two, a grading permit pursuant to this chapter. And three, an Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality stormwater construction permit and incorporated stormwater pollution prevention plan if required by state law. Subsection B, residential grading permit required when located within the hillside hilltop overlay district boundaries. 1. Construction of up to two single-family residences or a duplex on a single lot shall require a grading permit. Subsection 2, residential building additions of 2,000 square feet or more on a single lot shall require a grading permit. Subsection 3. Residential building additions of less than 2,000 square feet where associated with land alteration activities are not beyond the scope of what is necessary to construct said addition and no trees are impacted do not require a grading permit. In subsection 4, parcels of land divided by the hilltop overlay district boundary shall only be subject to the requirements of this chapter on that portion of land lying within the boundary. In subsection C, Exceptions to permit requirements. Grading permits are not required for the following. Number one, excavation below finish grade. Excavation below finish grade for basements, swimming pools, hot tubs, septic systems, retaining walls under four feet in height and like structures authorized by a valid building permit. Number two, cemetery graves. Number three, refuse disposal. Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations. Subjection four, single family duplexes. Construction of up to two single-family residences on a single lot or duplex unless located within the hillside hilltop overlay district for 169.03b above. Subsection 5. Building additions. Building additions of less than 2,000 square feet unless located within the hillside hilltop overlay district for section 169.03b above. And number 6. Other minor field clearing or grading for maintenance purposes such as landscaping, yard grading, maintenance, farming, gardens, and similar activities. Subsection D. Grading permit application and approval. No grading permit shall be issued until the grading plan endorsed by landscape architect or engineer licensed in the state of Arkansas is approved by the city engineer. A separate permit shall be required for each site. Grading permits may be issued jointly for parcels of land that are contiguous, so long as erosion control measures are in place until the project completion. Any application for the required grading permit under this chapter shall be submitted concurrently with the application and calculations for a grading permit. If such a drainage permit is required by Section 170.03, tree preservation and protection is required in accordance with Chapter 167. E, permit posted. A copy of the grading permit cover page shall be posted at or near the street right-of-way line and shall be clearly visible from the street. Section 5, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 16904 by replacing each instance of, quote, minimal with, quote, minimum in the section title, introductory paragraph, and subsection A by replacing, uh, The ordinance number, and they don't have it in here, with ordinance number 5702 in subsection A, and by inserting the following after the first section in subsection F. All necessary modifications through stormwater best management practices should be immediately implemented in order to prevent further trackout, unquote. Section 6. At the City Council, the City of Pebble Archipelago hereby amends section 16906 and land alteration requirements. By repeating section 16906C2 and an act of replacement section 16906C2 as follows. Subsection 2, maximum length, the maximum length of any cut or fill slope without a terrace, as described in 16906D and E below, shall be 100 feet as measured along the road. The terrace shall be at least 6 feet wide. and by inserting, quote, designated protected streams before established TMDL water bodies in subsection F3 by striking in accordance with in subsection G and replacing it with equal to and by striking a registered professional engineer in subsection H1 and replacing it with an Arkansas registered professional engineer. Section 7, that the City Council, City of Feb. Arkansas hereby amend Section 16907A grading plan by striking at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 50 feet in subsection 1 and by repealing subsection 5 and replacing it with, quote, engineer-architect, seal of an Arkansas registered engineer or landscape architect certifying the plan complies with the chapter. By repeating subsection 11 and replacing it with, quote, acreage, total property, acreage, and disturbed area, unquote. by inserting in, quote, in accordance with the drainage criteria manual, unquote, at the end of subsection 12, and by inserting, quote, including final cover type, unquote, at the end of subsection 14, and by replacing, quote, straw bales with, quote, silt fences and replacing the, quote, brush creek dam, brush check dams with, quote, rock check dams in subsection 16. Section 8, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby amend Section 16908 grading plan submittal by repealing subsection A and enacting replacement subsection A as follows. Quote, preliminary grading plan. A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted at the time of preliminary plant submission for subdivisions or plant submission for large-scale developments and site improvement plans, whichever is applicable, unquote. and by inserting and quote receive a residential grading permit prior to a building permit unquote at the end of subsection b and by repealing subsection d in its entirety section nine that the city council of city of fable arcs are hereby meant section 16909 minor modifications by repeating the last sentence and replacing it with quote when applicable major modifications must be approved through the city planning process i will note that uh It was kind of choppy like this because Blake was trying to keep the city clerk from having to publish too long of an ordinance. However, I've noticed some typos in it, including one lack of an ordinance number, so I don't want it passed tonight. We need to spruce it up a little bit and look at it at another meeting. Hi, my name is Corey Granderson. I'm a staff engineer working under Chris Brown in our engineering division. Kit, I'm sorry you had to read that, and it sounds like I'm sorry you're going to have to read it again. It was great fun. No, I plan on the next one reading the title only unless they refuse to suspend the royals. Great. I'm going to touch on several points of this as briefly as I can here. Today, Chapter 169 simply requires that if you have proper erosion controls in place and you kind of plan to revegetate the areas you disturb, that we are – you know, duty bound to provide you with a grading permit. There's no clear statement currently in Chapter 169 that links a grading permit with the need to have prior development approval. That's the main goal of this ordinance change is to insert that language. So why do I have to read all those words then? Well, because for the last four years I've been keeping a laundry list of cleanup items for this ordinance and so... Chris recommended I bring that all forward at once and not bring every little typo to you. Kit did mention that there's been somewhat of a loophole that we've discovered in our grading ordinance, simply what I just stated that you can, we feel obligated by the way the ordinance is written, to provide you with a grading permit even if you haven't gone through the development process. These are often times they call these early grading permits and they are appropriate for large projects that have a significant amount of earth work to be done, kind of a first off the bat on the project. So if you have a project that has gone through planning commission, received their entitlement approval, we approve these grading permits quite frequently. You go to planning commission, you get approved, we approve a grading permit that's just bringing in fill material, for example, for 90 days. Those are very beneficial to projects and would still be allowed under this ordinance. The main change here, you might have heard mentioned there that there's also a change to the variances chapter. That's because in some cases, even prior to entitlement approval, it's clear to staff that an early grading permit is appropriate and would not have any ill effects on making sure the property is, or the project meets the intent of the UDC. In those cases, staff could go ahead and still approve these early grading permits. However, if it's apparent or obvious that the early grading would impact floodplains, protected streams, delicate tree canopy, or other things of that nature, then staff could say, we don't feel like this is appropriate, but here's the variance process. If you'd like to go to the planning commission, you can go ahead and ask for that early grading permit from the planning commission. That's the big change. The other many changes you heard, one that I wanted to highlight was that there's not any change with the single family program. permitting process. Currently, if you're in the HHOD, you have to get a residential grading permit in addition to your building permit. That stays the same. I simply rewrote that entire section to make it make requirements requirements and exemptions exemptions. Currently, if you read it, there's exemptions to exemptions are therefore requirements. And that's just, honestly, it's always driven me nuts. So I wanted to address that. I'm happy to answer any other questions you may have. Mayor, I don't have any other questions, but to add to Corey's excellent work on this is we have seen properties very recently that we've received numerous phone calls on. One of them is taking place on Weddington today, which basically used this loophole all the way down to the minimum requirement without a development plan that might have otherwise been able to have had a different pattern or something of that nature if there was an actual proposed development in front of it that may have allowed it to keep even more than the minimum requirement. May not have, but it could. And so we don't think that that should be allowed in a prospective environment, that we should actually have development plans in front of us. In fact, interestingly enough, we heard that from a neighborhood tonight about wanting to know what would be done before something would be just automatically removed. And so this ordinance is specifically to address those occurrences that we see occurring, and we want to stop this loophole before it is used significantly. What questions do we have? I guess we're going to hold it there. Mark? I'll just say that with recent activity around Weddington, I think all of us have been aware of how this has been used. And it's quite startling when you go past a highly forested, wooded area. One day and the next day, it's just bulldozed into piles and smoking. to be burned off, so it's about time we did this. Yeah, just my comment. Yes, Chris. Kidd, I know you noted that there were typos and the XXXX actually is in the current ordinance, so that is a typo that we're cleaning up. So that wasn't a typo in the proposal. We were changing that XXX for the number. We're correcting that as a typo. So we're fine with leaving it to verify. There were some other typos. Okay. So that's fine. I just wanted to clarify that. And we do want, I would just say this is an important item, to not let linger long. That's exactly right, because I'm receiving numerous calls on this. Just drive out waiting for those of you that have it. Oh, my mercy. You can see the issues with some of that. I'm getting a lot of citizen calls about this. So anyway, yes, I'm sorry, Kyle. Yes. Yeah, I drove past that particular spot several times and got to watch it progress is the wrong word, in process, I suppose. And drive by that during the rain after it was all clear was somewhat breathtaking, not in the way that I like to think of Fayetteville's trees as breathtaking. The one thing that has made me a little more sensitive to noticing this going around other places in town, generally on a much smaller scale, But like Don said, it's one we'd like to not let linger. I'm curious, are there others in process or on the radar that might come up in the 30 days waiting for enactment? Are you asking if there's other projects? Waiting for it to be effective. I guess I'm asking you to gauge the risk of more of these between now and the 30 days when the ordinance takes effect. Honestly, the early grading permits that have been approved prior to entitlement, even with this change, staff probably would have gotten together with Urban Forestry and some of the other divisions and supported it anyhow. Pinnacle Foods right now is a good example of that. They... Clearly had master planned things for that, so an early grading permit was appropriate for them. Nothing jumping off the page that I'm aware of. You don't have a current submittal that's just doing what we see on Weddington? No. John, do you have anything? Good evening. There actually are two submittals for this exact thing currently right now. There's one on Frontage Road, and I've lost where the other one is, but they've come in recently. Ward. So there are two currently in the process, which we are waiting for instructions from you all, really, on how to go forward. Thank you. Which I'll repeat why time is of the essence. Do what? I'm just repeating why time is important. So I think maybe what I've heard is we should move forward. There is a provision in Unified Development Code that when there's a zoning change being submitted, and actually when it was submitted to the planning departments, what kicks a 90-day rule in, that would, now if there have already been applications submitted, it's probably too late on anything that's been submitted, but there is a 90-day waiting period when a zoning change would make certain activities possible. change the requirements and the allowances for them. So I would ask Garner and Andrew to take a look at that. That's in the Development Chapter 166, and see if that is applicable for this. And that could be a way that would, in fact, stop any further applications from being accepted. Normally, if a ballot application has been made, then usually by that time it's probably too late to try to go back and change it. I should also note that the administration and I have been looking at a – clear cutting prohibition ordinance. We have one that is pretty close if not actually ready to be submitted, but of course with everything else going on and all the rezonings we have not submitted that at all to you yet. But that's another way to try to prevent trees from being destroyed even if there's no grading going on. Adela? Yeah. So is there a way we can go on and pass it tonight and make those changes later since time is so important? Yeah, you can do that if you want to. And we sometimes go back and do topographical mistakes. You all probably didn't hear it because there was a couple words that were not really there. I said what the word should be, even though it wasn't actually spelled out right. Mm-hmm. So, we can go back and do those typos if you want to approve it tonight, but I think we're actually already protected by this other one. But if you want to pass it tonight, that's fine. That means even though this wouldn't be effective for 31 days, there would be a stop on new applications that would be contrary to this. MS. Great. I make a motion then that we move to the second reading. MR. I'll second that. Oh, I think we were supposed to wait for the mayor. Hang on just a second. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, please, come up. It was quite confusing to hear all those numbers and figures. My name is Virginia Fletcher. There was an exemption somewhere in that dialogue. Was it pursued? Why don't you ask Corey? He's the author. Was it pursued? Yeah. No, this particular ordinance is really only about physical alteration of land. So it didn't have nothing with water or sewer utilities. That's right. Since it's come to a public comment, I'm going to comment. My name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet. I'm also on the Urban Forestry Advisory Board. I'm for this ordinance for four reasons. Actually, a bunch more, but I'll just give you four today. Number one, it's going to protect our natural resources, including our trees and streams for future generations, which the citizens of Fayetteville continually affirm as an important value. Number two, it protects... against issues that arise from grading and subsequent vegetation removal without a plan, such as flooding and water quality during heavy rains, or even just light rains, honestly, when you have no vegetation there anymore. Number three, it will encourage good design, which we think is an important thing here in Fayetteville. And number four, it will align the letter of the law with the spirit of the law and make 169 better match 167. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address some of this? Okay, bring back to the council we have a motion in second to go to the second reading said correct Della and mark Okay, so which please go yes, yes, no Yes, yes Yes And Ordinance of Man, Section 15604, Physical Alteration of Land and Stormwater Drainage and Erosion Control of Chapter 156, Variances. Section 16602, Development Review Process of Chapter 166, Development. and various sections of the Chapter 169 physical alteration of the land of the payable unified development code to clarify the approval process for grading permits to generally require developmental approval prior to the issuance of grading permits and to make administrative changes. Thank you. Kyle? So this is my new guy question kit. Are you saying that the other restrictions on changes to code and applications coming in should take care of this after tonight if this passes? Or would this be one of those times where an emergency clause might be called for? Number one, I'm not the interpreter of Chapter 166 development. That is, Mr. Stoll... And that's specified by the city council in the code. So I would have to defer to him about whether or not that will actually take care of it. And the other thing is we don't have an emergency clause drafted at this point in time, so it's pretty hard to approve it. There's clearly a 90-day pending zoning doctrine in the state law and in our UDC legislation. I, frankly, don't know who can invoke that. If we can administratively invoke it, we certainly will, or whether it takes council action to invoke that 98. Andrew may know. NEW SPEAKER PICARD, C.O.: Since these are not zoning issues, we're talking about the grading applications. Would that? NEW SPEAKER PICARD, C.O.: The question is, if you pass an ordinance, and can we then prohibit receiving applications? that don't meet the requirements of your past ordinance during that 30-day period before it goes into effect. Their state law and their UDC code both speak to having the ability to not receive applications. And my understanding of the idea is that if the application met both the new law and the old law, we would process it. If it didn't, we wouldn't. But my question is, can we administratively do that, or does that take council action? No, it would not take council action. But I did talk about this with Andrew and told him what the particular code section was. And did you take a look at that, Andrew? No. I did look at the code and it allows, it's really speaking to rezoning the zoning map. So I don't believe this would grant me the authority to deny a grading permit application. I'm not even in charge of that particular section of code. It's not referring to Chapter 167. So I don't believe the section that Kit and I had spoken about would allow the authority of my position, the zoning administrator, to deny a grading permit. So I don't think that particular area... Would be allowable. So you heard that. So apparently that will not prevent any applications at this point in time. So they'll have to wait for 31 days for this to be regularly effective. And if you want me to draft or try to draft on the fly a emergency clause, I can do that. Emergency clause requires six affirmative votes and the mayor cannot vote for that. Just so that you know. So what is the council's feelings? I guess I would make a motion to ask you to do that. You don't have to make a motion. I just want to know, is that what, we're going to need six votes for it? Yes. Yes. All right, let me start working on it. Can we handle the next item while that's going on, or is that too... Well, the next item has actually been requested by the person who asked Council Member Gray to add this to the agenda to table to the next meeting. Well, Chloe and I read it and we table it then. All right. Can we do that, Kit? I guess I'm in charge of the meeting. Yeah. Why don't you suspend the rules and go to the last item? Okay, well let's suspend somebody give me a motion to spend rules to go to the last item Mark, I move we suspend the rules and go to the last item. Yes, second We have a motion in second spin rules and go to the last item Senator, would you please call the roll? Mark and then Justin. Okay. There we go. Sorry. I should have checked that Okay Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number seven. An ordinance to discharge or remove the bill of assurance related to the property described in Exhibit A because such... protective language is no longer needed. And the applicant has asked us to table that. Yes, ma'am. We received an email communication from them today that the individual necessary to present all the information and answer questions is unable to be here tonight, and so I ask that it be tabled until the next meeting. But let me read it, since it is an ordinance. Whereas on April 6, 1982, the Fayetteville Board of Directors approved a rezoning of about two acres on city property on the corner of East 15th Street and Curtis Avenue, subject to a bill of assurance, that said the property shall be limited to a convenience store with gasoline pumps and a car wash. And whereas immediately thereafter, the Board of Directors approved the sale of an industrial park track facility. of 1.94 acres to Greenwood Food Stores, Inc., for $8,000 per acre, unquote. And whereas the city of Fayetteville conveyed about 2.24 acres to Greenwood Food Stores, Inc., by warranty deed signed by Mayor Paul Nolan on May 28, 1982, but not filed for record at the Circuit Clerk's Office until December 27, 1984, And whereas a quarter of a century later, the current owner would like the city to remove the bill of assurance from the rezoning ordinance so this property could be used for any C1 purpose. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby agrees to remove and discharge the Bill of Assurance or any other use limitation except for the underlying C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District requirements from about two acres of former city-owned property on the corridor of East 15th Street and Curtis Avenue, more particularly described by Exhibit A. And authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign any documents needed to accomplish this removal and discharge. And as Chief of Staff said, the applicant wanted to have the representative there to be able to answer any questions. If you had any questions about this, and so if you have any questions, then I would ask them to be tabled. If you all are comfortable with just removing that bill of assurance, then you could do that. But if you want to ask questions of anybody, it needs to be tabled. Okay. Okay. I'm not table left on the first reading. I'm sorry. Okay. Well, let's go back to the other. Okay. Now we're back at the other ordinance, and I have two things that must be done to this ordinance. The first is that the title must say at the very end, issuing grading permits to make administrative changes and to approve an emergency clause. That's part of the title. And then the last section, see what I can figure out what that section is. I thought it was long already, but now we have a Section 10 Emergency Clause, which I'll read, whereas the City Council has determined that this ordinance must be immediately effective in order to protect the peace, health, and safety of the citizens of Fayetteville. Okay. So we need an amendment that would put both those things in. Okay. Kyle? I motion that we amend the ordinance with kids' language. Mark? I will second that. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Okay. Do we have any public comment? We should do this tonight. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Kit, could you please repeat that phrase? What are we protecting here in the city of Fayetteville with this emergency clause? The peace, health, and safety of the citizens of Fayetteville. Peace, health, and safety. Thank you. Thank you. That is the language that's required for emergency clauses. And, you know, I will say that many cities, for some reason, put an emergency clause in every one of their ordinances. Well, I don't. I don't think that's right. I think it would require an emergency. And I think here we have something that actually would qualify in that case in order to preserve emergency. The environment for our citizens, their peace, health, and safety, I think, and I think that that's reasonable to do in this circumstances. Of course, it's up to your judgment. The city council will determine whether or not that is proper. Well, thank you, Mr. Williams. That's a great lecture. My time. All right. Mr. Mayor, I do not see how the peace, safety, and comfort, or whatever it is, of our citizens being threatened. and I'll be voting against this thank you but we've already we have a motion on the floor correct good Do we have a motion on the floor? I've got a motion. Okay. Yes. Yes. That's right. That's right. We're on the amendment right now. Okay. Yeah. Any final comments? John, any other final comments on the amendment? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, so the ordinance is now amended and it's on the second reading already? Okay, it's on the second reading. Do we need a motion to suspend and go to the final reading? Only if you wanted to pass it tonight. Yes. Okay. Do we have a second? I second that. I have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Okay. An ordinance to amend Section 15604, physical alteration of land and stormwater drainage erosion control of Chapter 156 variances. Section 16602, development review process of Chapter 166 development. and various sections of the Chapter 169, Physical Alteration of the Land of the Fable Unified Development Code, to clarify the approval process for grading permits, to generally require development approval prior to the issuance of grading permits, to make administrative changes, and to pass an emergency clause. Okay. Any final comments from the panel? Okay. Mayor, I just wanted to thank John Scott, Urban Forrester, and Corey in our city engineering department for their work on this. It was brought forward by you asking them to look into this, and we appreciate the work that they have done. Thank you. Thank you all. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you. Yes.
 No.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. Okay, the ordinance passed. Now there has to be a separate vote on the emergency clause. Do we need a motion and a second on that or have we already done all that? I don't think you necessarily do, but if you want to, you can, but we always just vote on it. Okay. That's what we'll do. I should say the very few times we do it. Oh, it's just going on. Sandra, would you please call the roll? You want a motion that would be easier for your system? No, I just have to get it in there. Okay. Tenant. Yes. Yes. I'm here. No. Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Ready. Yes. The emergency clause passed. All right. Thank you all. Well, that concludes our evening. What announcements do we have? Sorry, just a second here. A couple of announcements. This Thursday at 430 to 630, the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission is hosting a growing mobility for a growing region speaker series. It's the part three of the speaker series. It's the business case for transit. Representatives from Raleigh, North Carolina and Indianapolis. INDIANA WILL BE PRESENT TO TALK ABOUT THE BUSINESS ASPECTS OF TRANSIT. THE COUNCIL IS INVITED TO THAT ALONG WITH PLANNING COMMISSIONERS AND ANY OTHER MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WISH TO ATTEND. WE ALSO HAVE A BULKY WASTE CLEANUP FOR NEIGHBORHOODS OR TRYING TO PLAN A SPRING CLEANUP. HOPEFULLY IT WILL BE WARMER. on the next one, but the next one is Saturday, April 28th, so one week from this coming Saturday. So you have two weeks to plan for that. This is the Ward 3 location in Vandergriff Elementary, which is at 2200 North Vandergriff. And you enter from Mission and exit on Township. It also will be held at the Recycling and Trash Collection Facility on Happy Hollow Road. And at this particular cleanup at the Recycling and Trash Center, we will also be taking paper shredding offered for citizens who need sensitive documents shredded. You can do that on that site as well. And we still have our electronic waste that can be brought. The details are on the city's website. I'd also add that the city is in the process of Imagine Tomorrow's Parks, which is our master planning process. This has been out for some time on the city's website. We've conducted input sessions at Holt Middle School, the Fayetteville Public Library, Boroughs and Girls Club at Ruppel Road, the Botanical Garden, Gully Park, and Wilson Park. Tomorrow night is YRCC gym location. And then this Saturday, there are two locations, the Mount Kessler Regional Park Concession Area from 10 to noon and the Bryce Davis Dog Park from 1.30 to 3.30. Provide your input. We also will have... This same input survey available online for citizens who can't make one of these locations. But we're actively taking these public input sessions' feedback now. And then this weekend is Earth Day celebration on Saturday the 21st. Mayor Jordan will be doing a proclamation at 9 a.m. at the Marion Orton Recycling Center. We will also have a litter cleanup along city trails and streams, an invasive plant removal event along the trail corridor, a group bike ride from the Marion Orton Recycling Center to the Kessler Mountain Regional Park on our new trail opening construction event, and a ribbon cutting for our new trails at Kessler Mountain Regional Park. So we hope that you will come out, that it will be warm, and bring your family, ride a bike, help us clean up, pick up trash, any of that. That's this weekend as well. Okay, anything else? Mayor, I was hoping that I would have my second brief to the Supreme Court finished by tonight, but I still got to write my conclusion, so I can't get it to you yet. I hope to finish the conclusion and send it and file it at the Supreme Court tomorrow. And once I do that, I will go ahead and send you a copy of what I'm doing since I'm representing you all in this particular case. This particular issue was basically whether or not we had the right to depose the two legislative sponsors about why they drafted and supported this particular bill, which they named the Intrastate Commerce Improvement Act. but which might have had some other reason for its introduction into the state, and we're trying to gather evidence to be able to explain to the Supreme Court if there was other reasons that they might have, in fact, decided to go forward with that bill. It's funny, I've had to write about 30 pages of argument when we're arguing about 10 words in the Arkansas Constitution which says that for any speech or debate— In either house, the legislature shall not be questioned. And I acknowledge that I cannot question them about anything that they said in the Senate or the House of Representatives or the representative chamber. But there is a strong argument by the Attorney General that the privilege is much, much broader than that, and basically I can't ask him almost anything. So that's what the issue is before the Supreme Court. We did win at the circuit court level, but the Attorney General did appeal that. So that's what I've been working on the last couple weekends. I'm glad that I'm going to stop doing weekend work, get these briefs behind me, and start acting more like a real person again. Okay. Kyle? I just wanted to tag on to Don's Earth Day stuff. Some of the neighbors over in Ward 4 have organized a clean up of Hamstring Creek along with that, although they're now calling it weather permitting and it may be on Sunday instead of Saturday. So you can follow their new Facebook page for the updates on the date on that. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.