Okay, here we go. I'd like to call the City Council meeting of April 18, 2017 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Here. Present. Here. Right. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to.
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 4, 2017 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 17-24 and to authorize the purchase of three 2017 Toyota Tacomas from Steve Landers Toyota of Northwest Arkansas in the total amount of $65,400 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 17-23 and to authorize the purchase of a Peterbilt.
 520 front load huge truck with new way mammoth body from Arkansas municipal equipment. Incorporated any amount of $240,592 for use by the recycling and trash collection division. Number four, resolution to approve the purchase of six Hustler Super Z mowers from Williams Tractor of Edmeline, the total amount of $62,345 percent to a state procurement contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
 Number five, a resolution award bid number 17-26 to authorize the purchase of five 2017 Ford F-550 trucks from Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs, Arkansas, on a total amount of $313,256 for use by the Transportation Services Department. Number six, a resolution award bid number 17-26 to authorize the purchase of two 2017 Ford F-550 diesel trucks.
 Award 5-250 pickup truck from Superior Automotive Group of Siloam Springs, Arkansas in a total amount of $149,375 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number 7, a resolution of award bid number 17-29 to authorize the purchase of a Clement Starlight 3829 dump trailer from Hillbill Sales.
 Corporation of Benton, Arkansas, on the total amount of $39,794, plus applicable taxes for use by the city wastewater treatment facilities. Number eight, a resolution to approve an out-of-scope agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $19,998 for design revisions to the access road and berms at the Lake Sequoia Sediment Removal Project.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve task order number five with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center. Any amount of $100,500 for continued native vegetation establishment efforts and minor adjustments to existing restoration areas to enhance stream channel stability. Number ten,
 A RESOLUTION TO AWARD RFP NUMBER 17-03, AN AUTHORIZED CONTRACT WITH PLAY BY DESIGN INCORPORATED IN THE AMOUNT OF $299,990.91 FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ROTARY CLUB OF FEDERAL PLAYGROUND AT KESSLER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL PARK AND TO APPROVE PROJECT CONTINGENCY IN THE AMOUNT OF $30,000. AND NUMBER 11, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE AMENDMENT NUMBER 6 TO THE CONTRACT WITH MITCHELL WILLIAMS
 Gates and Woodyard PLLC in the amount of $100,000 for additional legal services related to the White River water quality standards petitioned to the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission to approve the project contingency in the amount of $20,000 and to approve budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Clark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, we have none. Thank you, counsel, for your work on that.
 Under new business number one, a resolution to approve change order number two to the contract benchmark construction of NWA Incorporated. Any amount of $195,377 for the construction of a bathroom and storage building at the fire department train facility to approve a project contingency amount of $29,306.55. And to approve a budget adjustment. Chief. Thank you, Mayor. Counselors.
 This is a recommendation to approve our change order number two in the development of our fire training grounds and approve a budget adjustment to go along with it. Okay. Do we have any questions for the chief on this? It's for a support building with bathrooms and storage on the training ground next to the training tower. Okay. Do we have any questions for the chief? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this?
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Allen. I'll make a motion to pass the resolution. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Lieutenant. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, a resolution to sell about 14.9 acres of land in a commerce district to Peter Kohler, LLC for $223,500. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. This property contains about 14.9 acres and is located on City Lake Road.
 south of the US Postal Service facility in St. Paul Trail. The city was recently approached by Dr. Kohler to purchase the property. Dr. Kohler is the CEO of Our Pharma LLC and intends to develop a generic drug manufacturing facility in northwest Arkansas. The company's objective is to produce medical products at a reduced price and conduct research in collaboration with the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of Arkansas.
 Initial plans are to construct approximately 10,000 square feet of building, with plans to double that space over the next five years. Once the facility is operational, the company will staff 10 to 12 employees, with plans to grow to more than 100 employees. Average pay is in excess of $50,000 per year, with some
 staff in excess of 100,000 per year as approximately a an estimated three million dollar capital investment for design construction land and equipment and
 The proposal in front of you is to sell the property for approximately $15,000 per acre, a total price of $223,500. This price does represent a reduced rate from the currently advertised $20,000 per acre in the Commerce District, but reflects the same purchase price that the City Council approved for this same parcel of property in 2013.
 The Mayor's office is very excited to welcome a clean, high-tech manufacturing facility to Fayetteville and meet the goals of our Fayetteville First Economic Development Plan, particularly in the specialized technology sector offering competitive wages. And with that, I wanted to ask the Chamber of Commerce if it's okay with you, Mayor, to come up and say a few words about this. Sure. Good evening, Chuck.
 Yes, good evening Mayor and City Council. Chung Tan from Fayetteville Chamber. We are very pleased to bring this project before the City Council. It is one of the biggest developments for our Commerce District.
 It's moving along. These first three months we saw a lot of activities and we are very glad that this is our first win. We are also excited that it is started by a local individual. Dr. Kohler is known to many of us in Fayetteville.
 a very honorable person with high integrity and he is also equally excited to bring his business to Fayetteville. And so we were able to show him a few sites, we were able to kind of like discuss his needs and what he wants to do and then we got excited as well.
 because his project meets a lot of what we are wanting to do for Fayetteville. Number one, we want to bring more activity to the Commerce District, to South Fayetteville. This is happening. We want to create new jobs that is of high skill set and of high average salary, and we achieve that as well. We want a company, even though this company is a startup, but it
 comes with a team already experienced in this business. So Dr. Kohler has a medical background. His team members consist of a pharmacist who has been in manufacturing. So, and then another member of the team is experienced in manufacturing.
 So they bring along a team consisting of members who have their own individual expertise so that together the chance of a startup being successful, the probability increased substantially. So we are happy with that. We took them to meet with the AEDC folks. They too are excited because for the state of Arkansas, the state of Arkansas is trying the same thing like Fayetteville wanting to move
 create more jobs, more high-paying jobs, and more jobs that need higher skill sets and professional training. So this is totally in line with them. We will continue the conversation, but first we need your approval for the sale. And the team is here, so you can either direct the questions to the team members or to the
 Okay, very good, Chung. This is, I think, a very exciting project for us in the city when we're looking at jobs that pay an average of $50,000 a year and goes right along with our federal first economic development plan of specialized technologies. So I think it's really, really good. But right now, what questions do we have for the council, for Dr. Kohler or Chung or Chris or whoever? Mark.
 I don't think there's a lot of discussion here. I would like to move that we accept this resolution. Sarah? Second. Thank you. Okay. Well, let me take some public comment before we vote. Does anyone from the public like to address us on this? Okay. Very good. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Justin, I see you're up. Yeah. I was just going to say, Mayor, I agree. I think this is a great idea. I hear things like technology-based business, economic development, local individuals in South Fayetteville.
 The only thing that some people might question is that it's a startup business, but I would argue that every great company started as a startup business. So I'm very excited about this and I want to thank the Chamber and everybody involved, your office, everyone that had something to do with this. This is exactly the kind of thing that we need to promote. It was real good, yeah. And I too want to thank the Chamber of Commerce for their work on this, staff. So, Mark.
 I just was making the motion. Okay. So we have a motion and a second, correct? Any final comments from the council before we vote? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number three. An ordinance to approve Vacation 17-5749 for property located at
 423 West Prairie Street to vacate a portion of a drainage easement container approximately 40 square feet. Kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a drainage easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a water sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any relocation or damage to utilities of existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 Okay, who has this one? I've got this one, Mayor. You've got that one?
 This property is located just north of the greenhouse grill. It's kind of a vacant slab that had a building many years ago. The applicant is in the process of getting development approved on the property and would just like to vacate a small portion of easement so they can build their building. It went through the planning commission with unanimous recommendation for approval. I did hear in the ordinance that it, the ordinance read water and sewer easement. It actually is just a drainage easement. So probably that needs, we will correct that. That's a Scrivener's error.
 Other than that, I think it's a pretty straightforward request. Thank you. Me too. Matthew. This is my project, so I'm going to recuse myself. It may not seem like much. It's just to do it all by the book. Okay. Got to watch that 40 square feet, you know. Anyway, do we have any questions from the city council to the staff? I guess that we won't get any answers out of the applicant. Anyway, any questions? All right. Do we have any public comment on this?
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move we pass the ordinance. And we need to go to second reading. Second reading of the ordinance. Okay, Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to approve VAC 17-5749 for property located at 423 West Prairie Street to vacate a portion of a drainage easement containing approximately 40 square feet. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Third reading. Third reading. Adela. I will learn to count one of these.
 We have most of the second to go, third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Black. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 17-5749 for a property located at 423 West Prairie Street to vacate a portion of a drainage easement containing approximately 40 square feet. Okay. Any final comments, Mark? No.
 Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Patch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number four. An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 17-5734 for about 26.09 acres located at 1722 North Star,
 Drive from our a residential agricultural to RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to P1 institutional kit be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, and RSF4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to P1, Institutional. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Andrew.
 So this is St. Joseph's School, Kansas. I have a pull-up here in Google Alerts with the yellow place marker.
 The property is just under 27 acres and includes the existing school, church, and then the field just north of it, zone RSF4, and the R and residential agricultural. The church and the school were operating under a conditional use permit previously. Sorry, apologize about that. The proposal is to rezone the entire property to P1 institutional to allow for the church and school by right and allow for the church to expand and the school to expand onto the vacant property to the north.
 The Planning Commission discussed this and recommended unanimously in favor of the proposal. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for Andrew on this? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 I THINK WE HAVE THE APPLICANT HERE SORRY SORRY TOM MAYOR COUNCIL THANK YOU I'M TOM HENLEY I'M A PARISHIONER WITH ST JOSEPH'S UM AND AND REALLY UH ANDREW SUMMED IT UP WE'RE JUST LOOKING FOR WE WE'VE OWNED THAT PROPERTY FOR OVER 20 YEARS OCCUPIED IT FOR 15 YEARS
 We feel like we've been good neighbors. The community enjoys the amenities, basketball courts and that sort of thing out there. And so we're really just looking for property use by right for what we've been occupying for 15 years. Thank you. You have any questions for Tom? Council? Thanks, Tom. All right. Did I call for public comment? Any public comment on this?
 Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Allen. I make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? It's okay. Kennett. Yes. Hatch. Yes. LeChir. Yes, ma'am. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddie. Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5734 for about 26 acres located at 1722 North Star Drive from RA, residential agricultural, and RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to P1, institutional. Justin. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Oh, sorry. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5734 for about 26 acres located at 1722 North Star Drive from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre to P1 Institutional. Any final comments from the council?
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Hutch. Yes. LeChier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Petty. Yes. Thank you, council. Number five, an order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 17-5732 for about 9.20 acres located at 1840 West Popular Street.
 from RMF24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre to CS Community Services, KIPP.
 SECTION 1, THAT THE CITY COUNCIL, CITY OF FAVORAL ARCHITECT HEREBY CHANGES THE ZONE CLASSIFICATION OF THE PROPERTY SHOWN ON THE MAP EXHIBIT A AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION EXHIBIT B BOTH ATTACHED TO THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT'S AGENDA MEMO FROM RMF 24 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY 24 UNITS PER ACRE TO CS COMMUNITY SERVICES. SECTION 2, THAT THE CITY COUNCIL, CITY OF FAVORAL ARCHITECT HEREBY AMENDS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF FAVORAL TO REFLECT THE ZONING CHANGE PROVIDED IN SECTION 1 ABOVE.
 This property is just south and east of the intersection of Poplar, and you can see here, to get your bearings, there's a small convenience store on the corner here. This property does not include the convenience store. It is the mobile home park and a small apartment complex. The applicant is proposing to rezone the property to CS Community Services from the current zoning, which is RMF 24 residential multifamily. Thank you.
 neighborhood we think that may be appropriate because there is a fairly good distance from larger and things of that nature so we're recommending in favor of the request it is classified a city neighborhood on our future land use plan which does anticipate higher densities and higher
 The Planning Commission recommended in favor of the request. There were several residents that lived in the mobile home park that talked about their concerns with being displaced when the apartment project comes in. And the Planning Commission was certainly concerned with that issue. And with their actual motion, they just requested on the record that the council consider that issue with whatever extent they can when they approve these types of projects. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here?
 My name is Evan Niehaus. I'm representing the owner here, Mr. Niblok. And I believe Andrew summed it up relatively well. They are planning to put an apartment housing on it. We are looking at potentially doing some commercial services on it with the extent of this rezoning. Do we have any questions? Do we have any questions? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Alan.
 I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Saundra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Vance? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Bright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, it's described in the rezoning petition RZN 17-5732 for about 9.2 acres located at 1840 West Poplar Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS community services. I could comment that when that issue came up to the planning commission from the neighbor for the people that owned some of the mobile homes, they were renting spaces.
 It really was nothing I think that the city could do in that particular case. The land is owned by the landlord. If the lease is able to be terminated by the landlord, then that's the landlord's right and the city can't stop him from doing that. Some of the persons said, well, their mobile home is no longer mobile.
 But unfortunately, I really don't know what what the city could do and I explained that to the Planning Commission I wish I had a good answer, but I didn't have any better answer than that But I thought I should at least tell you what was brought up the Planning Commission and there were several residents that did show up That were concerned about having to try to move their mobile homes. Okay, so
 Thank you, Kim. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bennett? Yes. Munch? Yes. Leger? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5732 for about 9.2 acres located at 1840 West Poplar Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS community services. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number six, an ordinance to amend Ordinance 3898.
 by removing approximately 1.7 acres from the Lake Federal Nature Studies Center Reserve to adopt an amendment to the joint lease amendment with the Federal School District to reflect the removal of the 1.7 acres to approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden Land Lease Agreement with the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks incorporated to add approximately 1.7 acres to the lease premises and approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden
 of the Ozarks master plan to add an operation center on the additional acreage kit. Okay, just one second.
 Whereas on June 20th, 1995, the City Council passed Ordinance 3898 to reserve and maintain more than 260 acres on the eastern end of Lake Fayetteville for nature study purposes for the benefit of Fayetteville residents as well as Fayetteville and Springdale school districts, which had jointly constructed a nature study center on the property.
 and whereas the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks has identified a parcel of land approximately 1.7 acres in size, adjacent to its leased premises, that is currently within the nature study reserve on which it wants to construct an operations center to facilitate the maintenance of existing and future gardens.
 And whereas the Springdale School District and the Fayetteville School District have agreed to the proposal to amend Ordinance 3898 and reduce the Nature Study Center Reserve by approximately 1.7 acres, and the Fayetteville School District has also agreed to amend its joint lease agreement with the City that covers portions of Jefferson Elementary School, Holcomb Elementary School, and Lake Fayetteville. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Ordinance 3898 to remove approximately 1.7 acres from the Lake Fayetteville Nature Study Center Reserve as shown on the map attached to the Parks and Recreation Department's agenda memo as Exhibit A. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves Amendment Number 1 to the Joint Lease Agreement with the Fayetteville School District to remove approximately 1.7 acres from the lease premises.
 Section 3, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves Amendment Number 1 to the Botanical Garden Lease Agreement with the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks Incorporated by adding approximately 1.7 acres to the lease premises and further approves an amendment to the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks Master Plan to add an operation center to the additional acreage. Vice Chair Stephanie Sharp. Connie Edmundson, Parks and Recreation Director.
 This request from the Botanical Gardens of the Ozark was taken to our Parks and Recreation Board in March.
 and they unanimously approved it. They believe it will benefit Lake Fayetteville Park and totally would enhance our botanical gardens. So I think the resolution pretty well outlines it. It would be we are requesting approval of an ordinance to amend three different resolutions and an ordinance that created all this. But the Fayetteville Public Schools are very amenable to this, and Botanical Gardens is too.
 But tonight I have Charlotte Taylor, who is the Executive Director of the Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks, and she's here to talk about their request. Good evening, Charlotte. Hello, Mayor and Council and friends. I'm Charlotte Taylor, the Executive Director of the Botanical Garden. I have with me Linda McMath, our Board President, and Joyce Mendon-Hall, who is one of our Board members that you all appoint.
 I think everybody's described it very well, Kit, that was very long and involved. Basically the need for this land is to help us with our present site of the garden as well as the growth to the south of Hilton Creek. We have a beautiful garden. We are bursting at the seams. This October we'll be celebrating our 10th anniversary and we want to continue to grow to bring guests and tourists and everybody into the garden. To do that we have to have the bones of the place in order and that's the behind the scenes work.
 What's back on this property, we would be putting mulch piles and granite piles and all the things that go into helping a garden function properly. And the operations center would be wonderful storage for our equipment. Right now our equipment sits right out on the trails and out.
 you know, just out in the public. And so we want to get it into a secure place where when it's raining we can do work, maintain. We also need office space and a bathroom for our horticulture staff. Now they have to traipse all the way up to the main building. And so this facility will help us grow our back
 behind the scenes program so that we can support our present garden and our future garden and as connie said we've gone through all the school districts and the parks and recs and certainly our board has approved this and we're very excited because it will allow us to do what's next on the docket for the garden and i would love to answer any questions if you all have any do we have any questions for charles on this or staff that good all right do we have any public comment on this
 I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Alan. Make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tuna. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend ordinance 3898 by removing approximately 1.7 acres from Lake Fayetteville Nature Study Center reserve to approve an amendment to the joint lease agreement with the Fayetteville School District to reflect removal of the 1.7 acres
 to approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden Land Lease Agreement with Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks to add approximately 1.7 acres to the lease premises, and to approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks Master Plan to add an operation center on the additional acreage. And it could have been worse. I could have done this in like four ordinances. I decided to combine it all to one. That's good. Adele?
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hingham. Yes. Petty. Yes. In order to amend Ordinance Number 3898 by removing approximately 1.7 acres from the Lake Fayetteville Nature Study Center Reserve.
 to approve an amendment to the joint lease agreement with the Fayetteville School District to reflect the removal of the 1.7 acres, to approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden land lease agreement with the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks to add approximately 1.7 acres to the lease premises, and to approve an amendment to the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks master plan to add an operations center on the additional acreage. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this?
 I'd like to say that I was on the council a long time ago when we first walked around out there and looked at that and thought about it. And I can't believe how much you have been able to accomplish there. It's a great job and you've really made a gem for the city of Fayetteville. And it's great to see dreams come true. And I will also say that it was a privilege for me to be on the council when we gave the first major funding for the botanical garden. So that's been a long time ago as well.
 I had a red beard then. Any other final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Batch. Yes. LaTier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. Okay. And now number seven, a resolution pursuant to ordinance number 5652 to authorize motor vehicle access to West Hotz Drive.
 from property owned by the University of Arkansas. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Just first to go back through the history of this. Again, the...
 Back in December of 2013, this issue was in front of the City Council as related to a vacation request for some right of way that the University of Arkansas needed in order to build their parking lot along Razorback Road.
 During the council discussion in December, there was a discussion of a stipulation to cut off vehicular access on the north end of what was to be Graham Street at Hotz Drive, so the northern exit of this parking lot. That issue was sent back to the Transportation Committee at that time. The Transportation Committee reviewed that.
 and came back with a recommendation to close off the vehicular access at HOTS. The council approved the vacation with that stipulation in January of 2014. Of course, the parking lot got constructed as stipulated by the council, and there is no access onto HOTS Drive from the parking lots. There's only access to Along Meadow.
 to Razorback Road and then south to Center Street.
 In 2016, September, some of the residents along Palmer requested through the Transportation Committee member in Ward 4 and also through the Alderman Ward 4 to reconsider that request. It went to the Transportation Committee in September, I believe also in October, and then we had a couple of meetings it was on.
 And we did not have a quorum so it took several months ultimately in March the Transportation Committee reviewed this request and Sent it to the City Council with no recommendation. So it's in front of you with with no recommendation to approve and
 this change or to leave it as is. A little bit about the traffic counts that we took. We took counts three different times. The third time we just sent to you over the past couple of days
 And without really getting into all the numbers, the counts indicate that there are very few vehicles coming out of these parking lots and turning back to the west to go through the neighborhood. So the majority of the traffic is exiting either to the south and then back to Razorback Road or continuing on south along Graham.
 or just going directly out on Meadow to Razorback Road. So not a lot of cars that we see going from the parking lot through the neighborhoods.
 I ALSO DID WANT TO CLARIFY AND REMIND THE COUNCIL DURING THE CONSIDERATION OF ALL THIS ORIGINALLY, STAFF'S RECOMMENDATION WAS FOR FULL ACCESS, ESSENTIALLY OUR CONNECTIVITY POLICY INDICATES THAT, THAT WE SHOULD ALWAYS MAKE STREET CONNECTIONS WHEREVER POSSIBLE.
 I think I saw an email today from one of the residents, and I did want to clarify something in that email. This request that's in front of you is not being brought up by the University of Arkansas. They did not request this. This came from citizen request in the neighborhood. With that, I can answer questions. Okay. Well, I can remember how we went through this, but Alan.
 I did have a question, Chris, on the traffic counts. I just wanted to clarify. You said that the counts showed that most traffic wasn't going back to the neighborhood. But specifically, we counted. And I have the last Transportation Committee survey here. I just want to make sure we're all on the same page. Show that in that survey, we had one turning onto Palmer.
 That came from Center Street or Graham through the parking lot, is that right? Which date are you looking at there? I'm not sure. There's been some there. There's two or four of them. That's October 31st. Okay. And then the next one was done, well, same day, October 31st at lunchtime. One from the parking lot and then one on November 2nd. We had...
 On November 2nd, we took the 9 to 10 a.m. That's entering traffic. So that's five vehicles that came from Palmer and then entered the parking lot. So that's entering traffic. So just when we talk about cars entering the neighborhood as cut-throughs,
 I just think that we should keep in context that there's limited access to the neighborhoods from the parking lot currently. So that stands to reason that there would be fewer cars entering the neighborhood through the parking lot. Like 30% is what I saw. Is that correct, Chris? Three percent? I think that's a pretty good percentage. Depending on which set of data you want to look at, it's a little bit different. But in general, it's less than 5%.
 When I brought this to the Transportation Committee, the reason I brought it back was because I had constituents request that. I said I'd be happy to reconsider what we had voted on at that time. We can talk more about that later. To get down to the statistics from the traffic survey, 9% of the vehicles leaving the parking lot turned west onto Center Street.
 and eight of those vehicles leaving the parking lot going west on Center Street turned onto Palmer from Hartman avenues. Less than three percent of the total number of vehicles leaving the parking lot actually go on to Palmer from the information that we have in front of us. So that when I brought it to transportation the intent was to determine if there was data to support making a change.
 And the reason that I didn't support taking this to the City Council from transportation is because the data doesn't support that. But I'm definitely open to hearing what everyone has to say tonight. Thank you. Okay. John. What we're talking about is quantity of numbers, the number of people leaving the parking lot and going onto Center and then onto Palmer.
 Remember, there could be a qualitative analysis here also. Maybe some of those cars in the parking lot going into the neighborhood actually live in the neighborhood. That's a possibility. We need to recognize that. So not every car leaving the parking lot going into the neighborhood, we cannot assume that they're all foreigners or people who don't belong in the neighborhood. Some of those might actually live in the neighborhood.
 So there's a quantitative analysis that needs to happen as well as a quantitative. I'm afraid our statistics don't show that qualitative analysis. That's just another perspective I want to present. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Let's get into some public comment. All right. Introduce yourself to the city council. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless a city council member has a question. Bring you back up.
 direct your comments to me, the chair of the committee, and give us your address and away we go. All right, Becky, go ahead. Hi, my name is Rebecca Lloyd. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. Well, first of all, we had sent y'all this and hopefully you got it in your package, but I did make a copy in case anyone needs one. We're trying to
 You know, not a long drawn out thing tonight. So I think just a few of us are going to speak and hopefully we address everything that we need to. And if there's something that we haven't, I'd really appreciate it if someone would maybe just comment on that so we can kind of give our thoughts toward it.
 I'M NOT GOING TO SPEAK A LOT. THE ONE THING I DO WANT TO EMPHASIZE WHICH I THINK IS QUITE INTERESTING WHEN WE'RE DOING THIS ANALYSIS OF TRAFFIC FLOW THAT THEY HAVE DONE, IF THERE'S NOT A LOT OF TRAFFIC, THEN WHY WAS THERE AN ISSUE OF CLOSING UP THAT STREET? BECAUSE ORIGINALLY THAT WAS THE REASON. IF I'M HEARING THIS CORRECTLY, MAYOR, IS IT NOT?
 The reason why they did it was because of the neighborhood concern. I mean, I guess that would be whoever could answer that. Well, I believe, Council Member Long, didn't you bring this to the Transportation Committee and the City Council? I did, and I have the minutes from the meetings here where that was discussed and actually...
 What I brought it up as at the city council meeting is I pointed out that it was directly across from Thomas, which is a narrow and safe street that does need some adjustments made to it. Right. That is something someone else is going to address tonight. Right. That's where it started. Okay. But from all of the emails and stuff today, the individuals in the neighborhood that are
 you know, for staying, you know, that street staying closed off. They're saying it's because of the traffic that's going to be coming into the neighborhood. And I just want to make sure that really the only streets that are affected is Palmer, Hotz, and then Thomas. The rest of it, they're going to get the traffic anyway. I mean, that's just...
 However they get to that destination, it's either going to be Center, HOTS, and again, Thomas. So I just, I don't know. It's just hard for me because I live on Palmer. Anyone that lives on HOTS, I can understand why they would want it closed. But I think in the fairness of the neighborhood...
 I don't know how you can close one and not accommodate the other side. So anyway, thank you very much. You're welcome. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Tom Bohannon. I live on Palmer. I think that we've talked about this on many occasions.
 But there's an issue that's not being looked at, I feel like, and that is access to Razorback Road. The traffic has gotten to the point where you can't get onto Razorback Road going north without using the stoplight at Meadow Street. To get to that Meadow Street stoplight, if you're outside the parking lot, you're going to have to circle around about three blocks.
 of residential street to enter the parking lot to access Meadow Street to get out so you can go north. If you're going south on Razorback Road, time, you'll have to wait a little bit, but you can get out, but if you're going north, it's virtually impossible.
 So there are other issues to be looked at other than just the traffic count is people that live there having access to Razorback Road. Thank you very much. Thank you, Tom. Who else would like to address this? I'll try to do a little better job this time. My name is Alan Baker. I live on Palmer. And I'll just make some comments. And I hear folks talk about a stipulation.
 THE BASIS WAS A STIPULATION FOR CLOSING HOTS. I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS. I'VE HEARD COUNCIL MEMBERS SAY, WELL, LEVERAGE, THE UNIVERSITY NEEDED LEVERAGE OVER THE CITY, THE CITY NEEDED LEVERAGE OVER THE UNIVERSITY, EASEMENTS AND ALL THOSE THINGS, THAT HAD TO DO WITH WHY WE DON'T WORK WELL TOGETHER SO WE HAD TO USE LEVERAGE. THAT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE TO ME.
 Thomas is the issue. Thomas is 17 and a half feet in width. Hard to measure actually because the roads kind of go like this. There's no road that's up to standard, very few in University Heights. So Thomas is 17 and a half feet in width, no pedestrian traffic because you've got an adjacent sidewalk, it's called the parking lot. And has one home with a driveway and it's basically a block in length with no blind spots. Center Street on the other hand, which is south,
 of the parking lot, is an access road for lots of homeowners, is 16 and a half feet, a foot narrower than Thomas, and with, in some places, again, you can't measure, it's impossible to measure actually the street, with numerous blind spots and no sidewalks, lots of pedestrians, students primarily. Nettleship is a major access road south, has choke points that are as narrow as 15 and a half feet, that's two feet more narrow than Thomas,
 And with significant traffic, significant traffic flow. In fact, you can make the argument that this city approved the new neighborhood that's on Nettleship. I think it's Nettleship. And you're going to increase the traffic. Okay, so the argument that Thomas is an issue, there's no basis for it from my viewpoint anyway. And then traffic counts. How do you use a traffic count when one of the major acts, ingress, egress points is closed?
 How do you do traffic counts? And I agree with the previous speaker. Councilman Long defeated his own purpose when he said, hey, there's limited traffic. And this is not about Palmer, it's not about HOTS, it's not about any one street. To me, it's just doing what's right. You've got a great parking lot that the university built, along with the city. Engineers planned it. And someone has yet to show me a single metric
 that says this is the right thing to do. I hear again stipulations, leverages, Thomas, all this stuff, and you've got no basis. I don't see a single instance or any fact that you can base a decision to close off a perfectly good exit for not only the neighborhood, but for the community at large, meaning the University of Arkansas students in some ways, and I don't like
 where you stand up against the thing. But the students spoke. If anybody's seen it, I mean, you had to put a fence up there to keep the students from using that access. So my question would be, did the city engineer planners, did they support the council decision and what metrics were used by this council to determine the original design of the parking lot was flawed to such an extent that a major ingress-egress point had to be blocked? Does U of A facilities management personnel support the decision to block this ingress-egress point?
 HERE'S WHY I THINK THE CRUX OF IT IS AND I'LL SHUT UP. IN MAKING THE DECISION TO CLOSE THE NORTHERN INGRESS-EGRESS POINT, DID THE COUNCIL ONLY CONSIDER THE LIVABILITY AND SAFETY OF A SELECT GROUP OF VOCAL RESIDENTS RATHER THAN THE LIVABILITY AND SAFETY OF THE COMMUNITY AND U OF A STUDENTS AS A WHOLE? IN OTHER WORDS, IF STREETS ARE INADEQUATE TO SUPPORT TRAFFIC UTILIZING NORTH INGRESS-EGRESS AND YOU'VE GIVEN ME THE EXCUSES THAT YOU GET OR THE RATIONALE, THEN I WILL TELL YOU THE SAME RATIONALE EXISTS IN LARGER NUMBERS TO CLOSE OFF ANY ACCESS TO
 I don't support that at all. I'm just saying if you used your rationale for closing off the north, you'd have to use the same thing for the south. And considering the number of streets throughout the University Heights that are below code, did the council consider installing before doing something like this, which was the easiest thing, the easiest thing this council could do is close off and put a fence on an exit point. The harder thing to do would have been considering installing traffic control devices
 CALMING DEVICES, IN OTHER WORDS, FOUR-WAY STOPS AT ALL THE INTERSECTIONS, IF IT MAKES SENSE. FOUR-WAY STOPS, SPEED HUMPS, NOT BUMPED, SIDEWALKS THROUGHOUT UNIVERSITY HEIGHTS. I MEAN, LET'S FACE IT, PALMER STREET IS A PARALLEL, IT'S THE FIRST PARALLEL ROAD REALLY TO THE WEST OF RAISING BACK BOULEVARD AND IT'S USED BY EVERYBODY. FACILITIES MANAGEMENT, YOU NAME IT, YOU GOT TRAP AND THERE ARE KIDS. IT'S THE FIRST, I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, PALMER
 THAT AREA IS THE CLOSEST NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS. GENUINE NEIGHBORHOOD. KIDS ARE OUTSIDE RIDING THEIR BICYCLES. MOMS AND DADS ARE WALKING THEIR STROLLERS UP AND DOWN THE STREETS. IT'S A GREAT SIDEWALK THAT YOU BUILT ON PALMER. MY HATS OFF TO THIS COUNCIL FOR DOING THAT AND SPENDING THE MONEY. GOD BLESS YOU. BUT CLOSING DOWN THAT EXIT TO HOTS, I SWEAR TO GOD, I HAVE
 racked my brain to figure out what metrics were used to say let's do this where it made sense instead of doing the hard thing and that's how about making the whole community safe instead of just taking a select few people that squeaky wheel gets the uh gets the oil thank you thank you I have a question yes councilmember Long has a question for you Alan if I may
 I'm not sure. We've talked about this quite a bit, but did you realize that during the council discussion when we closed the north end of HOTS from it being across from Thomas that there was
 The discussion was that at some point we would open HOTS at that point when Thomas saw improvements. Well, I'll tell you what, I've been doing this for a long time, Councilman Long, and that's the first I've heard it. I've not heard any discussions here, and if I'm the only idiot in the room, I can accept that. No, I just wanted to make sure you saw that. I mean, it's in the agenda. But the rationale there is you're assuming, okay, we've added something new to the mix. It's called a parking lot.
 Thomas has always been there. It's a bad street granted, but there's no pedestrians. There's one home Hey, I walk it from the football games I know how dangerous this but I could make an argument that hey, we've actually added something to the mix It's called a new neighborhood on Nettle ship and there are streets that are more narrow than Thomas so I don't understand this this concern for one block of
 a road, a street, and I still contend, and I could be wrong, and God knows I'm wrong 90% of the time in my life. But see there? I lost my train of thought. It's called age. But anyway, they're more narrow, they're more dangerous. So again, the argument, I just can't get my arms around the rational argument of why you selected that other than few people showed up, few didn't show up, those that were here got the vote.
 Rest of the rest of the neighborhood lost as a whole and the University of Arkansas lost. I mean the bottom line is It's a perfectly good exit. I appreciate Ain't that smart? Good evening. Hello. My name is Vicki Hamilton. I live on Markham 1513 just remodeled. Um, I hear a lot of people talk about why
 the decision was made to close one side, open the other side. I would say that they probably made the wrong decision. Stay with me, ma'am. Stay with me. Okay. You can comment to me, please. I would say you probably made the wrong decision allowing access out the other direction too versus just closing off one side. Now, one of the things that I see when I think about traffic flows, the traffic counts are really low.
 But during events, that will not be the case. And actually, that one point, that one ingress, egress point in that parking lot will be the only thing that stops traffic from not being directed on Razorback Road. From Meadow, the traffic pattern will then go, turn into the parking lot,
 and flow completely up all the way to all the parking lots that connect to Markham that will feed every parking lot during an event, during a Razorback event, through the back way. I see it now because right now I've seen the traffic flow, the pattern change from leading people out to Razorback
 to leading them down Markham to get out into the field. And I see that you're going to get more traffic on Palmer during events based on the flow and the way that it's going to be set up during events. Because that is the one thing that stops that parking lot from emptying in any direction other than...
 South or Razorback, they're going to push them all north and they're going to push all that parking, all that flow from those parking lots during events up our way. It's just the way that I see it. I do know that I, I mean, I understand why it would be nice to drive through that parking lot occasionally. But there's not a demand. If there's not a demand other than during event parking, I don't understand why you would change it. Thank you.
 thank you anything for me thank you who else would like to address us on this my name is lynn lloyd i live at 106 north palmer mayor council thank you um some of the same issues i don't want to be repetitive but events have become such a big thing it's even broader than
 Razorback football games because we have graduations now, we have basketball games, and traffic sometimes is backed up for 45 minutes to an hour on Palmer, and you're just kind of locked in.
 And so sometimes, if they had a north exit to get out that way, it would be a lot easier for all of these events that happen around the university. Pedestrian safety, I know both sides are concerned about pedestrian safety. And I think one of the things that Alan mentioned was, Palmer has become such a great place. There's folks that walk their dogs, there's people that have children that live on Palmer.
 The access to the park is so important. So, you know, even with traffic counts, it still seems like it would be wise to use, you know, Thomas to move people up and down, Thomas to Markham, then, you know, up and down Palmer, just with all the foot traffic and folks there.
 One of the things I do want to say too is the resolution, when it was made, I think was good and timely. I don't think we would have near the information that we have for our neighborhood had it not been for the resolution as it was put in place. And so even as it has come a couple years later to re-look at this thing, I think it's been a good thing.
 It's been a good thing to help us re-look and re-make adjustments to maybe what might be best for our neighborhood down there. So thank you for your work. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Nobody? Mayor, Council, Tom Overby. I live in University Heights. A couple of points. Yes.
 The debates in 2013 and 2014 and the record that was put in your packets for this is very telling. It explains a lot of you were on the council at that point, and some of you made cogent comments as to why the decision was made the way it was made. It did have input from the neighborhood. I'm sorry for those folks who weren't there at that time. I'm sorry for them now. I have empathy and sympathy for the folks in Palmer that are worried about, that wish to have this ordinance changed.
 They make the point, however, by their good arguments, that they're worried about more traffic on Palmer from the University parking lots, and so they want to have some of it go off into other parts of the neighborhood. And I don't mean to pit neighborhood against neighborhood. They're all good points. But it underscores the rationale for what was done in 2014.
 I drive down West Hotts every single day, twice a day, going to work and coming back. I drive right by this area in question. I have photos, if you want to see them, of a couple of things I'm going to comment on. If you put my comments, if you'll accept the truth of them, we'll cover it. The university, within the last couple of weeks, put up a complete barrier fence with gates along this exit that's being debated.
 That stopped what was going on for the last year or so since the parking lot was built. And that is that some of the people were so desperate to come out and go west on Hots and across Thomas that they drove across barriers, chains, they pulled down stanchions, they made a mud pit,
 And they were determined to get out and did so every single day because every day when I go down the street The mud tracks are fresh so Traffic counts being what they are reality is that was what was going on I can't tell you if that was two cars a day or twenty, but they sure tracked it up When the fence post went up for the fence that is there now before they put the screening up in the gate and
 There were fresh tracks coming right across the middle instead of the side, and then the dirt, the turn is down west on HOTS. So to me, the reality is that's what goes on. Maybe it was kids from Texas with huge four-wheel drives only. I don't know, but it was somebody. The parking lot has been built less than one year. One of the things I want to say is a point of philosophy.
 A lot of you were on this council in 14. We're back a year after the parking lot is finished. If you reverse engines, what are you saying to the residents of Fayetteville? We'll make a decision one day and we'll just change it pretty quick. I know you don't mean that. I know you wouldn't embrace that. And maybe you say, oh, there's great reasons to do it now that are so different from what they were some short time ago.
 you know don't scare the residents into thinking the council doesn't stick by what it says that's all i have to say thank you thank you tom who else would like to address us yes i'm rob caris i live on 1666 wholesale about a block north of markham
 I'd much rather be playing football with my son, but at the same time, I don't want months or years ahead to have somebody hit my son because they're reading a text going home from school. I think the broader problem is, why is all this traffic coming through our neighborhood that's from the university? Yeah, it's not good for Palmer, it's not good for Markham.
 Why isn't that just shuttled out to Razorback or something like that? I mean, that's the real problem. The problem is it's where our neighborhood gets encroached on yearly. Like you said, the parking lot's not a year old, and you guys are changing your minds on what you were going to do. And I know I've had a dog get killed. I know John Latour's son got hit in my driveway going out of my driveway by a car.
 And I think that I'm not sure what the onus is or what the why they're wanting the North to open up Is it just because of Palmer? Well, why don't we protect Palmer and protect Markham and do something about it where the traffic funnels out to Razorback where it should go you know, it's the university has to plan for their in increased enrollment and
 and driving through our neighborhood is not what I want. Maybe we need a bunch of speed bumps like Wilson Park, like the place over there off MLK, that's got a bunch of speed bumps or something, I don't know. And John tells me that speed bumps don't help. Well, I'm not sure what helps, but I don't think our problem is not.
 The problem is the traffic coming through the neighborhood that's a neighborhood to get to a parking lot you know that the university is set up and I think you should be able to protect both Palmer and Markham With either one ways or you know only left-hand turn out or something. I don't know but I think we need to hold the University accountable for their for their parking and their traffic and I think that's your job of
 as our city council reps, and I'm confident that John and Alan know what we're talking about, and I would hope that we would support other areas as well if they were having the same problems. That's all. Okay. John. Question, Dr. Karras. Yeah. Do we have sidewalks in Hustle? Hustle has some sidewalks. Any around your house? Yeah. Yes. On your side of the street?
 No, not on my side of the street, on the other side. But it stops right at my house there. How serious was my son injured when he was hit by a car? Not bad. He flew off the top, I believe, and I think the bike was no good, but he was fine, so that's good. Did he go to the hospital? I don't remember. I wasn't there. He didn't. He didn't. Right, right. Well, by luck, yes. It was very minor. Just want to give that respect. Right. Thanks, Rob.
 Who else would like to address us? Hi. Good evening. I'm Teresa Turk. I live at 1408 West Cleveland. And I'm also in the University Heights neighborhood.
 FIRST OF ALL, I THINK WE NEED A LOT MORE INFORMATION THAN WHAT WAS PROVIDED IN THE PACKET. THAT WAS JUST A ONE DAY OF EGRESS AND INGRESS IN THAT PARKING LOT. SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO ACTUALLY POLL THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT ARE DRIVING IN AND OUT OF THERE ON A FOOTBALL OR BASKETBALL GAME DAY TO REALLY GET A TRUE PICTURE OF WHAT HAPPENS DURING AN EVENT AND A HIGH USE.
 HOTS, as you know, goes right straight into a park. I mean, those are very narrow streets there, and I really believe that area really needs to be protected. And I agree, Palmer really needs to be protected. You know, University Heights is one of the last intact neighborhoods
 that's close to the university and it's constantly, if I can use the term assault, it's constantly under assault by either development or the university encroachment. And so you as a city council, I think, really need to work with the university and protect our neighborhoods
 Please do that and also live up to your agreement. This has only been one year So Palmer needs to be protected too. I am incredibly sympathetic to those folks down there, but the university really needs to be held accountable to this the city and its citizens and a long history of professors and other folks associated with the university that live in that neighborhood and
 You know, we go, that group goes way back, 80, 90, 100 years. So please take into that consideration when you're making your decisions. Thank you. Thank you, Teresa. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. You know, before tonight, I wouldn't say that I had my mind made all the way up.
 I do now, and I'll get to that in a second. First, I want to address a couple things. I would say, I'm not saying that what we did a year ago was the wrong decision, and I want to explain why I voted the way I did, but I would hope that we have a council that when we do make wrong decisions, they reverse them quickly. I think that's a very good policy to have.
 When I voted for the current configuration, back when that decision was made, I did so for one reason and one reason only, and that was because Alderman Long requested us to and the university didn't raise an objection. So I did that out of deference to the alderman that represented that district.
 Now we're reconsidering this decision because the same alderman has asked us to and I take that equally seriously. Otherwise I don't think we would be revisiting this. But now that it's on the table I think we have an obligation and a duty to give it full consideration. And I take that very seriously. I hear from a lot of neighbors all over the city frequently on a lot of different issues about
 in ways that have a common theme. And it's not just about university students or blaming the Texans, which is very easy and tempting to do. But it's really about, you know, the quality of their neighborhoods. And I'm hearing that here tonight and I understand that. But I also want to be dedicated to addressing the business in front of us.
 The conversation about how to protect neighborhoods from the growth pressures on Fayetteville is one that we should have. But tonight, our business is merely about this parking lot. And we could, someone, it won't be me, could raise a motion to close all of the entrances to the parking lot tonight. But right now, the business before us is whether or not we open the north side.
 And so I want to focus the rest of what I have to say on that matter. I said that before when we started, my mind wasn't made up, but now that it is, and it was a couple of the comments that did that for me. One I hadn't considered was that, and I've experienced this too, seeing friends over there. One I hadn't considered was...
 crossing lanes of traffic to get onto or off of Razorback Road and needing to use that light. And it's a habit I've developed when I'm going over there is using that light to get into or out of the neighborhood. And I have noticed that it requires a longer route to see the people that I want to see. But I didn't notice it with respect to this issue. I only noticed it viscerally.
 And so when it was pointed out tonight, it was kind of a red pill moment for me on this issue. And I hadn't realized until it was put forward that that's probably a habit that a lot of people have developed and one that we should take into consideration that we're forcing people, even residents of the neighborhood, to drive farther and pass more houses than they should have to. We were actually creating more traffic than is necessary.
 So that went a long way to making up my mind to support opening the north side, but there were a few other things. I was looking at the map and I just counted houses. There are more than a dozen houses on the south route to get to the five-way intersection at the park. And there are about half a dozen houses on the north route to get to the same intersection. So just in terms of apples to apples, I think more, if there is an overt danger, I think
 I'm not sure that the danger is overt as it's being presented, but if there is an apples to apples comparison, says the north route is safer for more people. I was also looking at the map and I realized tonight that Thomas is very short and that doesn't have very many residents on it. That allayed a lot of my concerns about safety on Thomas, especially in light of the comments that we've heard today about some of the other roads being even more narrow.
 I'm proud of the investments and sidewalks we've made there and I hope we can do more and we should plan to do more but even with a comparison of the current state of things it's clear to me that in terms of relative risks the north route is still safer even on the pedestrian perspective and the last thing I wanted to say you know in our packet we were also provided a map
 of game day traffic exit routes, the map that police are given to direct traffic. Right now, HOTS is a dividing line. It's kind of the continental divide for game day traffic. Everything south of HOTS is directed down to MLK, and everything north of HOTS is directed to Sing and Weddington. So even if the north side is open, that map wouldn't send game day traffic.
 through the north and northwest part of the neighborhood. So for me, based on the comments I've heard tonight, the decision I want to make seems clear and the rationale seems clear. I certainly have a deep respect for anybody that might feel differently. Reasonable people can disagree. I don't want to minimize the broader concerns the neighborhood have, but I do want to remain focused on the business in front of us.
 I respect what any other alderman might vote or any opinion or any disagreement that we might have on this with any of the neighbors, but I will be voting to open it up. Okay. Al? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Alderman Petty, if I could. I wanted to let you know it was actually Rhonda Adams who was on the Transportation Committee with you who too actually took that through the Transportation Committee, not myself. The other thing we looked at at that time was that going through Thomas.
 is different than just comparing the north and south end of Palmer, which Palmer's actually not that very long. If you go out through Thomas, it leads to the, well, one possibility of going through by hundreds of homes. There are many different routes. It's an opening point to the neighborhoods, and as someone pointed out earlier tonight, opening point to the parking lots as well.
 You also mentioned the game day route traffic. University can change that. We all know at any given point in time, as they did a few years ago when they put directional signs up on our street signs without permission. I think that has now been corrected. The university and the city are working very well on planning for those things.
 I don't think we can say that that game day routing of traffic is what it is will be what it will be next year because they can change that in two months if they wanted to. Just wanted to clarify a couple of things. Okay. All right. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to make a few points. I too am concerned with traffic in the neighborhood and I agree with Matthew Petty. Let's talk about what we're talking about right now tonight. We do need to have a broader discussion.
 And what Dr. Krause was getting at when we were talking about speed bumps, I've had people from the Transportation Committee tell me the speed bumps only work for houses that are right in front of the speed bump. And in my own experience, if I'm in a hurry and I come to a speed bump, I have to slow down for the speed bump. And after I pass the speed bump, I go even a little faster to make up for lost time. So I'm not sure speed bumps work either. And there are better ways to slow traffic down with narrow streets or parking on both sides of the streets or four-way stop signs or...
 CROSSWALKS, THOSE THINGS ALL SLOW TRAFFIC DOWN BETTER THAN SPEED BOMBS. SO WE HAVE MORE EFFECTIVE TOOLS AVAILABLE. THAT'S PART OF THE BROADER DISCUSSION. DISCUSSION ABOUT THE NORTH EXIT OF THE PARKING LOT, I WANT TO MAKE THREE POINTS. NUMBER ONE, THE ARGUMENTS AGAINST OPENING THE NORTH EXIT I FIND TO BE VERY INCONSISTENT.
 You know, we were first told that Thomas is too narrow, but now we understand there's only one house on Thomas, and there are many houses on Center Street, where we're speeding traffic now. And Center Street is actually more narrow than Thomas in certain places. So to make that argument is inconsistent, and I don't like inconsistency in those arguments. Number two, Chris Brown told us that our city policy is connectivity. We want to connect.
 the parking lot to streets to give people ingress and egress. I heard of a new college, a college who had built a new campus and they built buildings on the campus and they didn't build any sidewalks. They let the students take paths that they wanted and came back and poured sidewalks where those paths were. I thought that was a very smart idea. You see where people want to go. Maybe those
 big trucks or Texans or whoever they are might be telling us they want to use that exit. You know, so maybe we should accommodate that so they don't have to rut up the landscape and give them an exit. The third point is there are ways to mitigate game day traffic. When I'm coming home during tax season, I'm trying to weave through the university and get to my house, which is just up the road from the area we're talking about.
 Many times the road is blocked by a police car that won't let you pass and go that direction. We could easily do the same thing on game day if we don't want any traffic in the neighborhood. We just place a police car in the road and block them from going that direction. We could also put up directional signs that say you can only turn toward Razorback Road. So there are ways we can mitigate adverse effects of game day traffic.
 If you live where I live, you know on game day it's kind of a free-for-all and you're going to have traffic, period. I mean, you put 70,000 people in the area and you're going to have traffic. I'm sorry. That's just part of living there. I guess the main thing about this is the fairness of it. I want to treat everybody the same, always.
 Is it fair to let the people on HOTS be exempt from traffic, where we put the people on Cleveland and Palmer, have them have more traffic? Wouldn't it be more fair to have everybody be the same? It reminds me of, what was that novel in 1984, where some animals were more equal than others? It seems like we're kind of falling into that same trap. So I'd like it to be fair for everybody. And we all, none of us like traffic. Nobody likes traffic. We understand that.
 During tax season, I try to leave my house by 530 or 6, so I don't have to fight with traffic and come home after the traffic is over. And, of course, on game day, all that's exempt because there can be traffic everywhere. But my final point is fairness. Let's make it fair for everybody. Let's not have those who are more equal than others in our city. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Who else would like to make some final comments before Alan? Thank you.
 I'll touch on just a few things. We've kind of talked about this since 2013, so it's come up a few times. What we're really dealing with is not just a parking lot. It was talked about and Rhonda Adams and I caught it on the agenda because it was right across from Thomas and that looked like an unsafe situation and I still say that it is.
 What we really have is in this city a situation where the University of Arkansas has grown, enrollment's grown, and I think that's wonderful. I think that brings in money to this city that we wouldn't know what to do without. We have a situation where all of the campus edge properties are suffering because of cut through traffic. We haven't been able to keep up with infrastructure in terms of sidewalks and street improvements to the level that the university has grown.
 That is something that we have to make up for for the next several years. It's not that the city of Fayetteville hasn't tried. We've done the best with what we have had.
 That's an issue. Pedestrian safety is one of the most important things to me when we talk about campus edge properties. That's what the Town and Gown Committee was supposed to work on after they established a boundary around the university was improving the pedestrian safety in those areas, improving the lighting in those areas, improving the crosswalks in those areas, working on if we do need speed humps.
 in those areas that's what we need to do a properly designed speed hump shouldn't actually slow a car down or catapult it into the air if it's going to the correct speed it should just be a mild bump to remind you so we have all those things we need to work on as a city now look at the specifics this specific spot you have center street that goes from razor back road and actually that street connects all the way up to ramey junior high it just curves around and then you don't have another
 East-West, Collector Street, all the way until you hit Cleveland. Besides Razorback, that's all there is, which is a state highway. So looking at that, really that's one of the things that's created this problem. You have traffic that's right there in that parking lot, and they say, well, traffic's backed up on 6th Street, so I've got to figure out a way to get through these neighborhoods and get all the way to Sangin, Cleveland, through Markham or whichever route they take. But it just bottlenecks.
 So by increasing traffic into the neighborhood, no matter where it comes from, they're all trying to get to Cleveland. We need another collector street on center. That needs to be developed because we need a way to move traffic east and west, not ways to filter as much traffic as we possibly can through all of these neighborhoods. This is just something I've been thinking about over the last few days. It's just we're creating the problem, really. Event day traffic is not...
 It's not easy to deal with and I can speak for the people who live on Palmer too because after 10 years of living on Sang, I know that you better get, if you're not going to the game, you better get what you need before it starts and you better be ready to stay where you are after it's over for hours. Because traffic is bumper to bumper and it really doesn't move sometimes. You can just walk out and actually hand bottles of water or whatever to the people going by. It's kind of fun.
 Thomas was one of the major things that started this discussion. And John, you said that the arguments weren't consistent. I would not agree with that specifically. I'd say that the arguments are multifaceted. There are many different arguments that went into this, but that was the motivating discussion point that started it. When we had that discussion and we made the final decision to close it, we talked about Thomas being improved before we opened it.
 That's in the meeting agenda minutes that you can see. The Transportation Committee also unanimously voted to close the opening at HOTS for good reason. Almost every member on the council and almost every member on the Transportation Committee had issues and concerns about pedestrian safety. We don't have a lot of improvements on most of those streets. We've made a lot of improvements on some of those streets.
 But as John mentioned, even his street, that's Oliver and the north end of, help me out there John, what's the one that comes into? Hustle. Hustle, yeah, couldn't remember. Those don't have sidewalks all the way yet, and they need them next. We talked about right-hand turn lanes. Looking back through the notes, Alderman Petty had some great suggestions at the meeting when we discussed this. Right-hand turn movement only out of that parking lot to get the traffic back to Razorback. That was a great option, I thought.
 I just think we need to address the concerns prior to opening the entrance there. That takes money. It takes us finding the room in the budget.
 We need Thomas Street improved, we need another collector street besides Cleveland, and we need more sidewalks in the entire area in the university district that was established with a boundary by the Town and Gown Committee. That hasn't been done yet. Those things haven't been acted on. I know that the Town and Gown Committee is a huge committee and it's got to work through all the budgetary constraints and discussions that we do, but we still should expect the same actions.
 before we take actions that defeat the purposes of our original decisions. So that's all I have. Thank you. Okay. Adela.
 Well, I agree with Alderman Long. We do have a lot of needs. We have a lot of things we need to do. And he sits on the Transportation Committee and we stretch the money just as far as we can. And I think we are doing a lot of good things in our city. All you have to do is drive around and you see that we're doing lots of good things.
 But, you know, so far as Thomas Street, I remember I voted to close it, however long ago that was. And the main reason I did, just like Alderman Petty, was that the Ward 4 alderman had asked us to do that. But I've learned a lot since then.
 And that is that a lot of the facts that we've heard tonight and from other residents, and I have read carefully all of the emails, and I think I've had just as many on one side as the other, and lots of good arguments. And I always have to kind of chuckle because the folks that
 live around the university and complain about it all the time, I think, wow, I'd sure like to live that close at times, you know, and I know it would be an aggravation at times, but I think we have to take the bitter with the sweet and that's what we have, living that close to the university.
 And I don't think the problem that we're having is probably anything unusual for a university town that has grown as ours has trying to accommodate
 the many, many university students, which as we all know is a great boon to our community. So, I thoroughly agree that we have a lot of streets that need some improvement. Halsall needs, to me, Thomas is no different from Halsall except Halsall has a lot more houses on it.
 And so the other strong thing that I feel strongly about is that, you know, it just looks to me, I think,
 people who are coming from out of town and they're saying, what in the world were those people thinking to put that in there and then close it off? It just looks strange. And I think that, you know, for a while, if it's what we needed to do, and Alderman Long is probably exactly right, we had hoped that we could improve Thomas, but that hadn't happened. The money hasn't been there to do that.
 And I think that the thing to do is open it up and as our staff says, one of our basic tenants is connectivity. And it doesn't make sense to have
 a very location of ingress and egress to be blocked off, therefore ending our connectivity in that area. So I will be voting to open, and I have listened carefully, and I hope that it does not prove to be a problem.
 terrible bad thing, but I'll be voting to open the north entrance to the parking lot. Thank you. Okay. Allen. I just had a question, Mayor. Adella, you had mentioned that we hadn't had the money yet to fix Thomas.
 But if we did have that money and we could hold off for six months until Thomas was repaired mayor I know that John had told me at the ward for mention that meeting that you had mentioned that you could find the money is You know, is that something that you do that? I could find the money. That's what John said. I don't know I
 Mayor, I don't know what Alderman Long is recalling. I don't recall stating that. Okay, thank you. Because I don't remember saying that. We can find out. Okay. Well, anyway, moving right along, who else would like to address this? Sarah. I'd like to motion that we approve the resolution. We have a second. John. Second the motion. Okay. All right, let's finish up with our final comments. Anybody else? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 A quick question. A yes vote opens it back up. Right. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. It's opened back up. All right. Number eight, an ordinance to enact Articles 31 and...
 32 of the federal code to codify membership and duties of the equipment committee and to provide for a city council member to substitute for an absent ward representative on a standing city council committee kit. Whereas the equipment committee reviews and recommends whether or not to purchase all major machinery prior to the proposed purchase being presented to the whole city council. And whereas the establishment of the equipment committee should be codified.
 And whereas a fellow City Council Ward member should be able to fill in for the normal Ward representative who is absent from a water and sewer, transportation, equipment, nominating, or ordinance review committee meeting, so that the Ward will be represented and the committee quorums are more likely. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enacts Article 31 of the Fayetteville Code as shown below.
 Article 31, Equipment Committee. Section 33.430, Establishment of City Council Equipment Committee. There is hereby established and continued the City Council Equipment Committee to be a standing committee and is to be composed of one City Council member from each ward who shall annually be appointed by the Mayor subject to City Council approval. The member shall elect a Chair during their first annual meeting. Section 33.431, Purpose, Duties, and Powers.
 The Equipment Committee shall make recommendations to the City Council on the proposed purchase of major pieces of equipment. The Equipment Committee shall meet as needed. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact Article 32, Substitution for Absent Fellow City Council Ward Member, as shown below. Article 32, Substitution for Absent Fellow City Council Ward Member.
 Section 33.440, substitution for fellow City Council Ward member who is absent from standing City Council Committee. Subsection A, if a City Council member must miss a meeting of one of the five standing City Council Committees, water and sewer, transportation, nominating, ordinance review, and equipment, the City Council member from the absent member's ward may attend the committee with full voting and participatory rights. Subsection B.
 A City Council member who will need to be absent from a meeting of one of the five standing City Council meetings should notify the City Clerk as soon as possible and hopefully at least two business days prior to the meeting that the Mayor cannot attend, that the member cannot attend. Subsection C. The City Clerk will then make an attempt to notify other City Council members from the absent City Council members' ward of the vacancy and invite the member to attend. Subsection D.
 Any City Council member who attends a meeting of a standing City Council committee, due to the absence of the ward's other member, shall have full voting and participatory rights during that meeting. Now, the reason I did, I presented the codification of the equipment committee. All of our other committees are either codified or at least mentioned in our Rules of Order and Procedure.
 The equipment committee kind of just began almost on its own and grew, and now it's really a very efficient, functioning committee. It has functioned very well without any rules, but I still thought probably we ought to codify it, and as you see, it's pretty brief codification. You meet your elected chairman, you have meetings when you want them, but I think it's worked well without any formal procedure, and so that's why I codified it.
 Now, on the section part of this ordinance was one that was suggested by Mayor Jordan to try to make sure that we could have enough quorums that the committees could actually meet and conduct business.
 He wants to wait a little bit on that and would like to have this tabled indefinitely while he reviews that and maybe there's more consultation among the aldermen about how you all would like to handle this sort of situation. It's really, you know, for you to do and to try to make the committee functions, the structure that we have function a little bit better.
 So I think the mayor would like to have a motion to table this. I don't know if you want to say anything else, Mayor. No, I just need a little more time to work on this. You know, I was trying to make sure we had quorums at all the committees and I probably should have thought it through a little bit more. I need a little time to work on it. So if you would do that for me, I would appreciate it. Now, motion to table indefinitely. Sir. Second. Thank you all. Adele. My question is, until we do take some action,
 Is it okay if we do ask another person to sit in for us or not? No, not to, I think our ordinance does not allow you to do that right now. Okay. All right. Thank you. So I want to be sure that everybody's on board with this. I know we discussed some of this at the retreat, and I was trying to help, and maybe I should have thought that through a little bit more, and I will. So that's why I would like to.
 Well, I like the idea because I agree. I certainly do not like to come to a meeting and not have a quorum and get to take action. So I would encourage you to go forward with it. I like it. Thank you. There are certain things that we get hung up in the system while we wait to get a quorum to get in. And, you know, we have people that show up and we don't always have.
 a quorum to show what we're doing to them. So I wanted to be sure that we always had a quorum and that all the wards were represented. I'd like a little more time to work on it. Matthew? Yeah, just so you know, a nice middle ground might be to allow members to designate their ward members a proxy voluntarily. We could do that. I mean, that's the kind of info I need from you all. How would you like to do that? Yes, Al? I'd also like to say for some of the committee meetings, it'd be good if
 The agendas were sent to the right email addresses for dates. The agendas were sent to the right email addresses. I don't use my official city email address, and I've brought that up with staff on multiple occasions. Who does the mailing out? Different people. Different people, yeah. They do? Yes, sometimes the department director will send an agenda out. If they were to send it out, we don't want to send it. Well, that we can fix, Alan. I think we have the correct email address for Alan. We'll take care of that.
 We'll make sure everybody gets their agenda with the date. Okay. Anything else? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Batch? Yes. Mortier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Anyone? I do. Mayor, I have several announcements that...
 Citizens and council members can find on the website under alerts and notifications, but a few timely ones to go ahead and let you know about. Tomorrow at the Senior Center between the hours of 2 and 4, our community resources staff will host a community development block grant photo reception, which is intended for citizens to meet and greet with the staff and learn more about the services that are provided to our low- and moderate-income families from the federal community development block grant funding.
 Also, as some of you may have witnessed, our East Joyce Boulevard lane closures from Old Missouri to Crossover are in effect as of last Monday. Those will go through April 28th for repaving, and work happens between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m., and if the crews aren't working, the road will be open, for example, if there's bad weather and they can't work. But the roads do open at 4 p.m.
 Those are alternate lane closures. As you all might have noticed, summer sports registration is opening up with all kinds of sports events in our parks and recreation. The city sustainability office received a platinum bicycle friendly designation last week. That was a very nice award.
 And then finally Fayetteville is Wild About Earth Day. It kicks off 9 a.m. for a 9 to noon volunteer trail and stream cleanup. The kickoff will be Marion Orton Recycling Center unless we have bad weather and then we'll be sending some notification through social media about that. Thank you. Mayor Weill. All right. Anybody else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.