I'd like to call to order the April 16, 2024, City Council meeting. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Here. Whittaker? Here. Berna? Here. Bunch? Here. Kirk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. All right. Let's get started tonight on the consent agenda.
 Number one a resolution to authorize acceptance of a grant from the federal area community foundation in the amount of $1,500 to develop a tutoring component of the after-school program at the Yvonne rich and Community Center and to approve budget just number two resolution to amend resolution number 6224 and reduce the amount of a
 reappropriations to the 2024 budget by the amount of $4,776,983 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $20,475 to provide additional services associated with the North Street Corridor project and to approve budget adjustment. This is a 2019 Street Improvements Bond project.
 Number four, a resolution to approve the purchase of lights, poles, and controllers from the Musco Sports Lighting LLC in the total amount of $95,051.18 pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract. Number five, a resolution to approve and adopt the Federal Fire Department's strategic plan.
 Number six, a resolution to approve updates to the Federal Fire Department administrative policies. And number seven, a resolution to acknowledge that the Federal Fire Department has completed its annual program appraisal and presented it through the Federal City Council. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore. Yes.
 Wiedecker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's go to unfinished business. An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of a not-to-exceed $85 million water and sewer system revenue bond series 2024.
 by the city of federal arkansas for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of planning designing acquiring constructing equipping certain water transmission line improvements providing for the payment of the principle of and servicing fee on
 The bond authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bond and prescribing other matters relating thereto. Kip? Well, I sent a memo out to you all this afternoon explaining that obviously, as you remember, I read about half of this ordinance in the last meeting and the other half was not yet loaded within the agenda packet.
 And so we could not go forward at that point. It has now been in the agenda packet quite a while, so everybody's had plenty of time to look at it and read it.
 And at this point, now we're going to pick up the meeting. We tabled the meeting, this last meeting, to this point. So I have just read the first six sections. And so now we need a motion to amend what was originally handed out to add sections 7 through 25, which were not in the agenda packet before. OK.
 Mayor I'd like to move to Amend the bond ordinance to include the rest of the ordinance section 7 through 25 I'll second we have the motion to second to add an amendment to add section 7 through 25 to the bond Issues Jackson, would you please call the war? Yes, we'd occur. Yes, Erna. Yes, lunch Yes Kirk yes
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes well now be my pleasure to read the rest of that ordinance uh it has a registration certificate and a record of payment uh of advances and then it says section seven the city council the city of uh has heretofore fixed rates for the system services by the adoption of ordinance number 6681 on September 19 2023 the rate ordinance
 References hereby made to the rate ordinance for the details thereof and other provisions provided thereto which water rates and sewer rates are hereby confirmed and continued as provided therein. The City covenants and agrees that the rates established will produce gross revenues at least sufficient to pay monthly operation, maintenance, and funded depreciation expenses of the system, pay the principle of an interest on all outstanding obligation to which revenues are pledged the system obligations, and
 As the same become due and pay the servicing fee, as the same becomes due and create and maintain any required debt service and replacement reserves collectively the required payments. The City covenants always to maintain rates, including increases as necessary, which will provide for the required payments. The rates currently in effect for the water service and sewer service shall not be reduced without prior written consent of the Commission and the bondholder. Section 8.
 The City covenants that it will continually operate the system as a revenue-producing undertaking, and will not sell or lease the same, nor any substantial portion thereof, without the prior written approval of the bondholder and the Commission.
 provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the City from making such dispositions of property of the system, and such replacements and substitutions for properties of the system, as shall be necessary or incidental to the efficient operation of the system, as a revenue-producing undertaking. Section 9. All revenues shall be deposited, as and when received, into a special fund heretofore created and designated revenue fund,
 Each employee of the City handling revenues shall give bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties. Monies in the revenue fund shall be applied to the payment of the expenses, operation and maintenance, repair and renewal of the system, to the payment of the principal of and interest on outstanding system obligations, to the establishment and maintenance of any required debt service and replacement reserves, and to the providing of any required depreciation fund. Section 10A.
 There shall be paid from the revenue fund on or for the first day of each month into an account of the City in a special fund to be created by the bondholder and designated series 2024, the ADFA bond fund, for the purpose of paying the principal of the bond in these amounts specified in Section 4 hereof.
 If the revenues are insufficient to make the required payment on or before the first day of the month into the ADFA bond fund, then the amount of any such sufficiency in the payment shall be added to the amount otherwise required to be paid into the ADFA bond fund on or before the first day of the next month.
 When the monies held in the ADFA bond fund, which represent payments to the City and interest earnings thereon, or proceeds of investments therefrom collectively, City funds, shall be and remain sufficient to pay in full the principal of bonds, the City shall not be obligated to make any further payments into the ADFA bond fund.
 Subsection D, all monies in the ADFA bond fund representing city funds shall be used solely for the purpose of paying the principal of and interest on the bond, and the city shall automatically receive a credit for the amount of such city funds on hand in the ADFA bond fund and available for the payment of any principal currently due on the principal payment date, irrespective of whether the bondholder has applied or caused to be applied such funds on that day for such purpose.
 The City shall receive a credit for all earnings and income derived from the investment of the City funds as of the first day of each month. Such earnings and income shall be credited against the next payment due. Subsection . The bond shall be specifically secured by a pledge of all revenues required to be placed into the ADFA bond fund.
 this pledge in favor of the bond is hereby irrevocably made according to the terms of this ordinance and the city and its officers and employees shall execute perform and carry out the terms thereof in strict conformity with the provision of this ordinance section eleven
 After making the payments and deposits required by Section 10 hereof, now shall be paid from the Revenue Fund the servicing fee to the servicer. The servicing fee shall be payable on the first day of the month following the issuance of the bond and continuing on the first day of each month thereafter until the bond is paid in full and shall be calculated on the same basis as interest would be calculated on the bond. The payment of servicing fee is expressly made subordinate to the payment of principal of the bond.
 Section 12a. After making the payments and deposits required in Section 10 and 11 hereof, the City shall make any debt service, reserve, and replacement reserve deposits required in connection with the system obligations. Subsection b. Notwithstanding the above, so long as a bond is outstanding, the City shall maintain a fund which is hereby created and designated the depreciation fund.
 After making the payments and deposits required in Section 10, 11, and 12a hereof, there shall be deposited from the revenue fund into the depreciation fund the sum equal to 5% of the gross monthly revenues for the preceding months.
 Once the depreciation fund reaches the amount of $8.5 million, or such lesser amounts as represents 10% of the proceeds of the bond drawn on the required level, the City shall not be required to make further deposits into the depreciation fund, provided, however, that monthly deployments must be resumed if the amount of the depreciation fund drops below the required level until such time as the required level is once again reached.
 Monies in the depreciation fund may be used for the purpose of paying the cost of necessary repairs and replacement to the system or for other purposes approved by the Commission. Funds may only be withdrawn from the depreciation funds with a prior written consent of the Commission.
 Section 13 this city shall assure that one Not in excess of 10% of the proceeds of the bond is used for private business use as to find below if in addition The payment of more than 10% of the principal due on the bond during the term thereof Another terms this bond bond or any other underlying arrangement directly or indirectly secured by any interest in the property is used in
 or to be used for private business use or in payments in respect to property used to be used for private business use or is to be derived from payments, whether or not the city in respect to property and borrowed money used to be used for private business use.
 and two, that in event that both a is in excess of five percent of the proceeds of the bonds are to be used in the private business use, and b an amount in excess of five percent of the principal due on the bond during the term thereof is, under the terms of bond, or any underlying arrangement directly or indirectly secured by any interest in the property used or to be used
 for the private business use or in payments with respect to the property used or to be used for private business use or is to be derived from payments, whether or not the City, in respect to the property of borrowed money used or said to be used for private business use, then said excess over 5% of the proceeds of the bond and used for the private business use shall be used for the private business use related to the government use of the project.
 The City shall assure that not in excess of 5% of the proceeds of the bond are used, directly or indirectly, to make or finance a loan to persons other than the State or local government units.
 As used in this section, private business use means to use directly or indirectly in a trade or business carried on by a natural person or in any activity carried on by a person other than a natural person, excluding however use by state or local government unit and use as a member of the general public. The City covenants that it will not enter into any wholesale water contracts with non-governmental entities
 or modify existing wholesale water contracts with non-governmental entities if such contracts or modifications of existing contracts were called a violation of this section. Section 14, any surplus in the revenue fund after making full provision for the payments and deposits described above may be used at the option of the City for the redemption of the bond and other system obligations prior to maturity in accordance with their terms for betterments or improvements to the system
 or for a refund to tax ratepayers, or for other lawful purposes. Installments of principal on the bond shall be made prepayable prior to maturity as provided in the form of the bond set forth in Section 6 of this ordinance. Section 15, so long as the bond is outstanding, the City shall not issue or attempt to issue any bonds or other indebtedness having or claim to be a pledge of the revenues on a prior or senior basis to the pledge securing this bond.
 So long as a bond is outstanding, the City shall not issue or attempt to issue any bonds or other indebtedness having or claim to be entitled to a parity pledge of the revenues to the pledge securing the bond, unless and until there have been procured and filed with the bondholder a statement by an independent, certified public accountant not in the regular employ of the City,
 reciting the opinion that either the net revenues, the net revenues being gross revenues, less operation and maintenance expenses, but not including interest amortization or depreciation for the fiscal year preceding the year in which the parity bonds or indebtedness are to be issued were not less than 110% of the maximum annual debt service requirements, including principal interest financing services and administrative fees on all outstanding system obligation and bonds
 or indebtedness then proposed to be issued, or two, the net revenue for the fiscal year succeeding of the year in which the parity bonds or indebtedness are issued, or to be issued, are projected to be sufficient in amount, taking into account any enacted system rate increases, but to be not less than 110% of the maximum annual debt service requirement, including the principal interest financing service and administrative fees on all outstanding system obligations and bonds or indebtedness
 then proposed to be issued. The additional bonds or other indebtedness, the issue of which is restricted and conditioned by this section, shall not be deemed to mean bonds or other indebtedness, the security and source of payment of which are subordinate and subject to the priority of the bond, and such additional bonds and indebtedness may be issued without complying the terms of this section. Revision of this section may be waived by the holders of 75% in principal amount of the bond at any time outstanding.
 Section 16 is coveted and agreed by the city with the bond holder and the Commission that it will faithfully and punctually perform all duties with reference to the system required by the Constitution and laws of the state of Arkansas and by this ordinance including without limitation the making and collecting of reasonable sufficient rates lawfully established for services rendered by the system and
 segregating the revenues and applying them to the respective funds maintained pursuant to this ordinance. The City covenants and agrees that the bondholder shall have the protection of all the provisions of the authorizing legislation and this ordinance, and that the City will diligently proceed to enforce those provisions to the end of the bondholder, realizing fully upon its security.
 If the city shall fail to proceed within 30 days after the written request shall have been filed by the bondholder, the bondholder may proceed to enforce all such provisions. If there be any default in the payment of the principal or interest of the bond,
 or if the city defaults in any ADFA bond fund requirement or in the performance of any other covenants contained in this ordinance or in the bond purchase agreement, the bondholder and the Commission, with respect to covenants contained in the bond purchase agreement, may and by proper suit compel the performance of duties of the officials of the City under the laws of the State of Arkansas.
 No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the bondholders is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, or remedies herein provided or provided by law. And every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy herein given by law.
 No delay or omission of the bondholder to exercise any right or power accrued upon any default shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any default or acquiescence therein. And every power and remedy given by this ordinance to the bondholder may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be expedient. No waiver of any default shall extend to or affect any existing or other subsequent default or defaults
 or impairing rights or remedies consequences thereon. Any costs or enforcement of the bond or any provision of this ordinance, including reasonable attorney's fees, shall be paid by the City. A servicer may enforce all rights and exercise all remedies available to the bondholder in the event a servicing fee is not paid when due. Section 17.
 When the bond has been executed by the Mayor and City Clerk, and the seal of the City impressed thereon as herein provided, it shall be deliverable to the bondholder upon payment of all or a portion of the purchase price in accordance with the Bond Purchase Agreement. The purchase price shall be deposited as and when received in a special account of the City, hereby created in a bank that is a member of the FDIC and designated a 2024 Water Construction
 The monies in the construction fund shall be used for accomplishing the project, paying or reimbursing expenses incidental thereto, and paying the expenses of issuing the bond approved in accordance with the bond purchase agreement.
 Payments for the construction fund shall be by check or voucher signed by the finance director or his or her designee and drawn upon the depository. Each such check or voucher shall briefly state the purpose of the expenditure. When the project has been completed and all required expenses paid and expenditures made from the construction fund born in connection with the accomplishments of the project and the financing thereof,
 This fact shall be evidenced by certificates signed by the finance director or her designee, and by the consulting engineer, which certificate shall state, among other things, the date of the completion, and that all obligations payable from the construction fund have been discharged.
 A copy of the certificate shall be filed with the depository bank, the bondholder, and the Commission. Disbursements may be made by the bondholder for costs of the project pursuant to written disbursement requests as provided by the Bond Purchase Agreement.
 Section 18 the terms and provision of this ordinance now constitute a binding binding contract among the city bondholder and the Commission With no variation or change in the undertaking here and set forth Shall be made while the bond is outstanding and less consented to and writing by the bondholder and Commission section 19 the city covenants and agrees it will maintain the system in good condition and operated in an efficient manner and at a reasonable cost and
 A city agrees to keep proper records, books, and accounts relating to the operation system, which shall be kept separate from all other records and accounts of the city, in which the complete and correct copies shall be made of all transactions relating to the operation of the system in accordance with generally accepted governmental accounting standards. Such books shall be available for inspection by the bondholder and commission, or agent or representative of either, at reasonable times and under reasonable circumstances.
 The City agrees to have these records audited annually. If requested, the City agrees to furnish an audit report with respect to the system to the bondholder and the Commission. Section 20.
 The City agrees that the bondholder may pledge the bond as security for payment of its revolving loan fund revenue bonds, the ADFA bonds, and the trustee or municipal bond insurer for the ADFA bonds may exercise any rights or remedies available to the bondholder under this ordinance or the bond purchase agreement while the bond is pledged and or the ADFA bonds are insured. In addition, the City agrees that while the bond is pledged
 and the ADFA bonds are insured, copies of all financial information relating to the City and system shall be furnished to the Trustee and or Municipal Insurer for the ADFA bonds. Section 21. The Mayor, City Clerk, and Finance Director, for and on behalf of the City, are hereby authorized and directed to do all things necessary to effect the issuance of the sale, economic
 for the issuance sale execution delivery of the bond and to affect the execution delivery of the bond purchase agreement and to perform all other obligations the city under and pursuant there too the mayor city clerk and finance director are fairly authorized directed
 directed for and on behalf of the city to execute all papers, documents, certificates, and other instruments that may be required for the carrying out of such authority or to evidence the exercise thereof. Section 22 references in this ordinance to bondholder shall include the original bondholder and any registered assigned thereof.
 Section 23 that Kutoc Rock LLP Little Rock, Arkansas is hereby appointed to act as bond counsel on behalf of the city in connection with the issuance and sale of the bond. Section 24 the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable and if any section phrase or provision shall for any reason be declared illegal or invalid such declaration shall not affect validity of the range of section phrases and provisions of this ordinance.
 And Section 25, all ordinances, resolutions, and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. Well done, Kip. Paul. Just to summarize quickly, we've talked about this extensively. We've talked about the project. We've had public hearings on the project.
 I just want to remind the council this is actually authorizing the execution of a single bond, which will be privately placed with the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission. If we look at this, there's no interest attached to these bonds, and there is a fee, a service fee, and that service fee is only three-quarters of a percent.
 based on current interest costs of municipal bonds today, I would estimate that our rate payers would save up to $20 million. So this is a tremendous opportunity for the city of Fayetteville and the rate payers of the water and sewer system. Again, this is structured for 20 years, three quarters of a percent service fee.
 Gordon Wilber from Kudak Rock is here. He is our bond counsel. He has worked on this resolution and the other documents. There are more documents that you're authorizing us to enter into after this. He has worked on and my staff has worked with him and his staff. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 what questions do we have for paul um i just have a question about if we could suspend the rules and have kit just read the title of the ordinance on the second and third reading
 You can do it under the second meeting and then go on later. Yeah, I was gonna take public comment and then. And the last item I should have mentioned, Lionel, I will ask the council to try to go through all three readings tonight so we can move forward on this issue and get this project underway. Well, I don't think we need a second reading or anything. What, any other questions from the council?
 all right now let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn at the mic you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those press chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to cut now you got to come to the podium introduce yourself yeah come right on up yep yep yep
 I read here proposed agenda additions. I'm sorry, William Harris, 258 South Church Avenue. Did we... That is my question. So that will come up later? Yes. I'm so sorry. Thank you. All right. Would anybody like to address this on the bond issue? Okay. Lisa, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, Mayor. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Bob, you're on. Okay. So, Kit, do I need to make a motion for the second reading or do I make a motion to just have you read the title? Yeah, for the second reading, right. Okay. I make a motion that we move to the second reading and just have Kit. Well, that'll kind of flow with it. Just make a motion to go to the second reading. I make a motion we go to the second reading. Do we have a second? Second.
 Second we have a motion to second to go to second read Jackson. Would you please call the roll? Or yeah, we ticker yes, Verna. Yes lunch. Yes, Kirk. Yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones
 Yes. An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of a not to exceed $85 million water and sewer system revenue bond series 2024 by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs of planning, designing, acquiring, constructing and equipping certain water transmission line improvements providing for the payment of principal of and servicing fee on the bond.
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bond and prescribing other matters relating thereto. And what it is in our procedure we are when we do move to suspend the rules it means I just read the title instead. Yeah.
 I make a motion we move to the third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading Jackson would you please call the roll more yeah Whittaker yes Erna yes lunch yes hurt yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes
 An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of a not to exceed $85 million water and sewer system revenue bond series 2024 by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs of the planning, designing, acquiring, constructing, and equipping certain water transmission line improvements, providing for the payment of the principal of and servicing fee on the bond,
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bond and prescribing other matters relating thereto. Any final comments from the council? I'd like to also thank our bond council who actually is much more responsible for this than I am. He drafts this all up and Gordon Wilburn of course have been working with us for over 20 years I think now and and
 With this being a 20-year bond, I guess it's going to happen that the next total eclipse hits Fayetteville. So we can have them both at the same time. Okay. If there's no other final comments, Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Brown?
 Okay, let's go on to number two.
 an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-0005 for approximately 0.30 acres located at 1510 west markham road in ward 4 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban this was left on the second reading i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading
 I'll make a motion to second third and final read we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final read Jackson would you please call the roll more? Yes, Whittaker? Yes, Erna? Yes, Bunch? Yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones Yes
 in orange rezone the property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-5 for approximately 0.3 acres located at 1510 west markham road in ward 4 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban
 John. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kerr, Development Services Department. I have no new updates or information on this request. Similarly, staff has not received any new public comment. As a reminder, staff is recommending in favor of the request and this Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council by a split vote of, I believe it was eight to one at that meeting. And Mayor Will Kellstrom is here as the applicant for this item. And I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. Thank you.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Will Kjellstrom here on behalf of the applicant. So last time we were here there were a couple concerns brought up about some of the homes around next door in particular and what exactly can be built in RIU. So just to be abundantly clear, RIU does not allow for multifamily. That would require a conditional use permit. And
 Meaning that we would have to come back and get another permit in order to build multifamily. It allows for single two, three and four family dwellings, which means it does allow for attached townhomes. But practically speaking, what the applicant intends to build is single family homes.
 There were some concerns about the height of potentially what could be built in relation to the height of the existing home particularly with regard to the new homes on game day. So the height restrictions in RIU stipulate that you can build up to two stories if you are between 0 to 10 feet from the front property line and if you want to build over that then you must be set back greater than 10 feet.
 So the building height is two to three stories, three would be the max, and the purpose for it being the purpose for the requirement that you have to step back 10 feet is specifically for the reason to prevent homes from towering above homes that are already there and possibly have a further back setback from an older zoning code.
 So that practically speaking is what you're going to be looking at with this zoning And kind of your your maximum worst-case scenario So I wanted to call attention to some of the surrounding properties and I sent a map and some photographs to Jonathan Earlier today that I believe he's got ready to pull up. Thank you Jonathan I
 So what I wanted to call attention to is the number of the surrounding properties that have already been purchased by the university. So on the cul-de-sac where this property is, three of those properties have already been purchased by the university. The large one to the west,
 has been purchased by the university as well as some of the lots on game day are shown on that map as North Smith, as well as the parking lots on Razorback and the fraternity house just to the southwest there is also owned by the university.
 While there are a couple homes nearby that are owned by individuals, the vast majority of these homes and lots are owned by the University of Arkansas. And in fact, a lot of them have already been demolished. And I sent Jonathan some photos of that. And if you could just scroll through those. It's never been demolished.
 So the point that I'm getting at by showing the map and these photos is that while at some point in time this may have been an old established portion of Markham Hill, I would say that that's not the case anymore. It's already an area in flux. A lot of these homes have been demolished. There's been new development on game day. Those lots on game day were zoned to NC. There's a couple lots either just to the north or to the northwest of those that have been zoned to RSF 8.
 So the point being that this is kind of already an area in flux. I would say that in that regard it's different from the rest of Markham Hill. That perhaps some of those neighborhoods should be preserved. Some of the established streets that have old or unique homes on them and all on similar size lots and in a similar format orientation to the street, I think that those probably are worth preserving.
 However, I would say this block is not like those. In addition to that, I would point out that there's already been some redevelopment to the west, the development on top of Markham Hill. There's a couple homes there that are larger homes on smaller lots, which is what we're looking at, that have already shown that some redevelopment is happening, at least on this
 And I would point out again that the university, I can only presume, is not requiring these lots for no reason. Do I know what they're doing? No, I have no clue, but I can imagine that it's either going to be student housing, an educational building, or a parking lot. Either that or they're acquiring them for no reason. I can't speculate. But so...
 The home that is existing there, it was pointed out that it is an old home, and it is true. The home is a very old home there, but I would point out that this home has been remodeled and renovated and changed so many times that the interior actually is stripped down right now that
 The amount of capital that would take to restore this to its former glory as a historic log cabin, I would say, would not really be a good investment for anyone. I think we're kind of beyond the point of keeping this as a historic home. Not to say the home doesn't have any value as is, but I think that the historic charm or nature of it is probably long gone.
 So with that, again, I would say that this is an area in flux. A lot of these homes have already been demolished. The neighbor that we are looking at in most of the lots that surround this is the university. In fact, the university was trying to buy this lot. And I would say that your worst case scenario for this lot with respect to the neighbors is not a big, tall multifamily building. It's large.
 in all likelihood it's three or four single family homes that if they're going to be three stories they're going to have to be set back at least 10 feet from the property line so with that i'm here if you guys have any questions as well as the applicant who is the developer for these this lot thank you okay what questions does the council have for the app and all of the staff anything okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this particular item you have anyone on no okay i will bring it back to the council this is on the final reading so what discussion would the council like to have
 All right, we're into the final round here.
 Well, first of all, I want to say thank you for holding it for two weeks. I appreciate that. I hope you've had the opportunity to kind of drive by and see what the neighborhood looks like. Yes, the U of A has bought a lot of property, but this has been a traditional RSF4 neighborhood. And across the street, most of those property owners are still there, and the buildings are still intact across the street of Markham.
 I still believe that it's too dense. We don't know what the university is going to do. We have no idea. They really don't share their hand with us very frequently, if ever. And the neighborhood has been a residential single family for ever since its existence, since we had that, I guess, that zoning designation. So again, I believe it's too dense. I hope you drove around and looked and saw how dense
 the Marley house is back there kind of blocked off by the properties that are on game day drive and has really no relief except to the west and that's where this property is so thank you okay sir yes Jonathan
 The applicant talked about what could be built on this if we rezone this. Kind of remind us of a few of the things that could be put there. RIU is not multifamily, correct? That's correct and as a reminder perhaps the distinction in Fayetteville is once you put five units together that classifies as multifamily. So if you're thinking of just attached units, RIU does allow single, two, three, and four family dwellings on a property by right.
 Sorry, I couldn't hear you. Sorry, I'm not sure where it dropped off. So given the distinction in Fayetteville that five units and above is multifamily, that's correct. Multifamily is not allowed on the property, but if rezoned, it would allow single, two, three, and four family buildings. Okay, thank you. Well, thanks. So Teresa, I did reach out to Trey and I see Trey.
 Trey Marley who lives in the house is here tonight. I was hoping, because I don't want to put words in his mouth, I was hoping he would have come up to speak there in a public comment. But I let Trey know that I was leaning towards this. And it seems one of Trey's concerns, and again maybe you've changed your mind, if I have raise your hand and I'll invite you up, was the kind of more fear if the university got this than,
 than what the developer is planning on doing. And so, and again, if that, he is raising his hand. So can I ask Trey to come up? And he's the owner of the house. Yes, you can. You can do that. Yeah, he's the owner of the house in between the lots. So Trey, would you like to? Hi, Trey Marley. Live directly to the east of this property.
 I think you mentioned that the neighborhood was in flux and so we've also talked about what the university is doing and what I would ask right here is can we find out what the university is doing not just here but across the board you know there was a meeting recently between the school board and the city council.
 I mean, and I know towns and gowns is kind of a thing, but there needs to be some meat to this. We need to kind of... The things that the University of Arkansas, the benefits are great, but also the pressures that they've put on this town are incredible. And for us to not be able to know a little bit better about what they're doing and be working with them is not doing the citizens right, in my opinion. So I would ask that...
 Let's figure out a way to work the university a little bit more on What's going on across the board? I mean all around the perimeter because these neighborhoods It's what makes Fayetteville Fayetteville and we're losing Fayetteville people are leaving daily. I mean people are coming 36 a day or whatever it is They're coming, but we are losing the people that make Fayetteville Fayetteville we're losing the businesses to make Fayetteville Fayetteville and we need to find a balance and
 to this growth. And I don't think, and we got a lot of catching up to do, so we need to hold where we can. And so that's what I would say to this point. Well, actually the town in gown is supposed to deal with some of this. Yeah, and I think everybody in the room and outside of the room would agree that we'd love to have more interaction and transparency and a voice in what the university is doing.
 That would be awesome. I don't know how we get there. We have town and gown. That's what it was.
 established was do they ever give us a report I think Lisa do you serve on that I do staff the committee we meet quarterly I in the time that I've been here which is four years I'm not aware of reports being sent up to City Council members but if there are topics that you're interested in by all means let us know councilmember Turk is also a member of our town again committee yeah and
 Yeah, and I think Trey brings up a great point. And I know that we all would love this too, to really know what is the university's plans? Are they going to keep growing? Are they going to keep pushing us deeper into a housing deficit faster than we can keep up? But Trey, if I could ask you, for this particular project right here, right now, if you'd like to let us know how you're
 feeling about it. I mean, you know. Well, I feel like it's it's almost a lesser of two evils, you know, being the university got it. It would be more evil. But I've talked to Fred and they've got some great plans and I just met Ashley here. They seem like great folks. I was a little bit surprised. I did not realize they were talking about four units. I feel like four units is too dense.
 And I know that it's infill, infill, infill. That's been the buzzword, but I think some places it doesn't apply. At some point we've got to hold some things. And again, that neighborhood has been kind of torn apart. It is kind of in flux, but that's gonna happen across the board everywhere if we let it, and we have let it in that case. So. Okay, Sarah, did you have something? Yeah, I was gonna, no, no.
 Not for you, sorry, but I just had a question for staff that was brought up about, I guess, Kit, you know, what, if the university buys a piece of property, what say-so do we have in what they do with that piece of property once they own it? Well, the university is a state agency, and as a state agency, they don't have to follow our zoning rules and things like that. So pretty much what they want to do is what they do.
 Okay, so if the university bought this property they could pretty much do what it- And build a parking deck there if they wanted to. Build a parking deck there if they wanted to. Yes, they could. Okay.
 I'm kind of like, I know when we have entities like the university and the Veterans Administration, it's also not that we have trouble with them or anything. I don't want to try to fight with the federal government if I don't have to. Yeah, but they also build what they want on their property and we don't, you know, when they buy something they pretty much can do whatever they want to with it. We don't have a whole lot of say in that.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I'm serving on the Town and Gown Committee, and I
 just about every meeting i asked them what their plans are because i've i've noted that they've come into the university heights area and have actually bought lots of property and um and i had heard from the neighborhood this is probably six months ago that they had made an offer on that large three acre lot they said they didn't know anything about it and yet three weeks later the board of trustees approved that purchase
 So that's the kind of transparency we have at the Town and Gown meeting, which is very disappointing. We're going to have another one next Monday. And I've asked the same questions about housing and specificities on the dorm. They could put a dorm back there. There's a lot of things they could do back there. But they are not being transparent partners. At least that has been my experience. And it's been extremely disappointing, unfortunately.
 I hope that that changes in the future because I do believe that many of us graduated from the U of A. We're alumni, and so we love the university, but we need to work hand-in-hand with them in order to solve the housing crisis, solve other issues that affect our city greatly. So I hope they will be more forthcoming. Anybody else?
 Just a quick question for the representative of the builder, Will. I forgot, did you say how many units are you looking at putting here? We're looking at putting four single family homes on the lot. So four single individually not connected, not attached units? Yes. Okay, that was my question. Thank you. And this is a question for Jonathan, I think those will be limited to three stories?
 That's correct in the RU zoning district. But it's also worth noting that that is not a commitment. I cannot assure you that that is what will be built there based on what was just shared with you. Yeah, yeah. Got you. Okay. Thank you for... Did you have your... Okay. Sure. Sorry.
 So thank you for Trey for sharing being the property right next to it. I know that I appreciate that Council Member Turk, you know, had sensitivity about the neighbors in that general area. You know, this is also, you know, a portion of our community that has
 You know, a fateful housing authority property that's not too far away with Lewis Plaza. So it is quite a varied area. And I also, too, kind of want to echo sentiments about I hope that we can forge stronger partnerships with the university, hand to hand, not just housing, but all the other mitigations around climate change.
 But also, you know, student experience and making sure that, you know, students are able to excel in the way that they come, you know, here and they're not struggling to be able to find housing and seek out, you know, making it to campus, et cetera. So, I've given all the conversation that we've had tonight though, I'd like to go ahead and probably motion to approve. But we're on the, we're on the third. We're on the last reading. Yeah, we're ready to vote. Oh, okay, good.
 Any other final comments or anything? All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Well, let's go on to new business.
 Earlier, Kitch, you told the gentleman in the red shirt that he wanted to add something to the agenda. Sir, is that what? No, this is the last item that . KITCHENG TAYLOR- OK. OK. I got you. I got you now. All right. Let's go to new business. An ordinance to amend 111.30 Retail in Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages of the City Code to Remove
 the permit fee cap of $500 for certain retail alcoholic permits. Paul. Well, how about me first? If the council is aware. Paul, let me read you this.
 Whereas on April 7, 2020, the City Council approved Ordinance 6,299, which authorized the issuance of retail alcohol permits to an applicant who has received a permit from the State of Arkansas, does not conform to the types listed in Section 111.30 of the City Code.
 And whereas Arkansas Code Annotated 3-4-202 authorizes the City to issue permits for retail alcohol sales and sets a cap for the City fee to one half of the fee collected by the Arkansas Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. And whereas at the time of ordinance, that ordinance 6,299 was adopted, the City further capped the City permit fee at no more than $500.
 and whereas the accounting division has identified two alcoholic beverage control permit types, the quote grocery store wine unquote and the sampling beer, wine, or spirits permits with state fees up to $2,500 and recommends removing the $500 cap on the city permit fee.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby amend Section 111.30J, other permits, by striking no annual permit fee, shall exceed the amount of $500 from Subsection J1. Within our ordinances, the City has established 20 license types.
 Since the state has over 50 alcohol beverage permit types, we established a other fee for other alcoholic beverage licenses. The state changes these quite frequently. The cities or counties or municipalities can charge up to half
 what the cost of those permits are charged by the state. When we look at these, we had a couple of additions in the state in their types of fees. One were grocery stores, wine, and another fee called sampling beer, wine, and spirits. Now both of these the state has
 has evaluated their permit based on geography and the space of the particular unit.
 When we established the other fee, we capped it at $500 at that point in time, which we felt would be sufficient. But these fees could be increased based on them. Most of the establishments affected by this would be grocery stores, etc., which have larger space. Therefore, we're requesting that the council
 uncap the total cap of $500 on other permits. With that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul? Well, let's get some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating resume will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic you have anybody on zoom no mayor okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council it's on the first reading it is an ordinance what discussion with the council like to have or what action with the council like to take Bob I make a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the second meeting in second
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ertsberg?
 Norris amend section 111 point 3 o retail in chapter 111 alcohol beverages of the city codes remove the permit fee cap of $500 for certain retail alcohol permits I would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Second we have a motion in a second to go to third and final reading Jackson. Would you please call the roll? For yes, Whittaker. Yes Erna yes, lunch. Yes, Kirk. Yes, I
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes guns yes and your demand section 111 point 3 0 we tell in chapter 111 alcoholic beverages the city code remove the permit fee cap of $500 for certain retail alcohol permits any final comments from the council Jackson would you please call her up more yes Weiderker yes Berna yes Bunch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes
 Stafford yes Jones yes yes okay let's go number two an ordinance to a vacation 24-03 property located at 1722 North Star Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a .18 acre portion of a general utility easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and Whereas the City Council has determined the following scribe portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now Therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general utility easement as described in exhibit B attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as they give it a to Planning departments memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one a new water line with Associated easements must be permitted constructed and accepted by the city and to any damage to a relocation of any existing Facilities will be at the applicants expense Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in East Fayetteville in Ward 3. It's about half a mile south of Mission Boulevard on the east side of Star Road. It is currently developed with the St. Joseph Catholic Church campus, which you can see in the aerial image here, including their main buildings and parking area. As was noted, the request is to vacate a .18 acre portion of a general utility easement.
 which you can see running along the north property line before turning south as it approaches the east property line of the main parcel approach associated with the church. When reviewing the request, staff identified only one item beyond the typical franchise utility consents that merited additional scrutiny, and that is that there is an existing water line within this easement.
 accordingly staff crafted the recommendation which is for approval based on the requirement that a new water line be permitted constructed and accepted by the city before this vacation request is formalized and that's in addition to our standard condition of approval which is that any facilities damaged during the relocation or installation of lines would be at the property owner's expense
 with that stuff has found it to be pretty straightforward request I'm happy to take any questions and mayor Caroline Gardner is here as the applicant for the item would you like to speak before the council you have ten minutes I'm Caroline Gardner with Kraft and Toll Alive nothing further to add okay is there any questions for the applicant or staff well a question for staff or for kit I
 the recommendations that Jonathan just gave us did we need to add that as an amendment or that's currently included in the ordinance thank you for asking anything else from the council alright let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Do you have anyone on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have, or what action would the council like to take? Mayor, I'd like to suspend the rule and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Second.
 Jackson would you please call the roll for yes Weed occur yes Erna yes punch yes, Turk. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford yes, Jones. Yes in order to approve the AC 24-3 for a property located at 1722 North Star Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a point 1 8 acre portion of a general utility easement a
 make a motion to spin the rules go third and finally second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading Jackson would you please call roll for yes we occur yes Arna yes Bunch yes hurt yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes guns yes
 and orders to approve dac 24-03 for property located at 1722 north star drive in ward 3 to vacate a 0.18 acre portion of a general utility easement any final comments from the council okay okay nope all right jackson would you please follow the road before i get fooled again more yes whittaker yes verna yes bunch yes
 Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, let's go to number three.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-0006 for approximately 1.28 acres located at 5916 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4 from RSF4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of property shown on the map and legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 Residential Single-Family, 4 Units Per Acre, NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville Reflects zoning change provided in section 1 Jonathan, thank you
 This request takes us to almost the entire geographical opposite end of the city. We're in West Fayetteville now in Ward 4. More specifically, we're at the northwest corner of Weddington and 59th Avenue. This property is currently developed with a single family home, which is facing Weddington, and an accessory structure which is oriented more towards 59th Avenue to the east.
 As a bit of additional context, the property is about two and a half miles west of the Interstate 49 interchange with Weddington Road. That includes passing several major roads as you approach roughly the midpoint between the interstate and our westernmost city boundary.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from its current RSF for residential single-family four units breaker To NSG neighborhood services general as you may have picked up on in the staff report This is an amended request that was changed at the Planning Commission from my original proposal to rezone the property To community services. So what is before you all tonight though is the NSG neighborhood services general and
 With that in mind, staff does find it to be a compatible request. Despite that distance from Interstate 49 that I described, this is an area that has a not insubstantial amount of housing, both existing, entitled, and under construction.
 As you can see on the zoning map in front of you or on the screen today, there also represents the potential for even more housing in the area. The injection or the insertion of the NSG zoning district here and its allowance for both housing and services represents in staff's estimation an appropriate accommodation to potentially allow the residents of the area access their needs without having to travel further east towards the interchange.
 uh from a long-range planning standpoint staff finds the request to be consistent with both our future land use map our city plan 2040 goals and and some of the elements that help contribute to what would make it an infill site as i noted cs community services was the original proposal on this property staff was not able to support that and a lot of that had to do with that low infill score
 As you can see, there are not a lot of elements that contribute to this being an area that could potentially have a complementary amount of development to the limited attributes that are in the area. When it comes to other issues that were considered, going from RSF4, which is our highest tree canopy requirement, to NSG will reduce it by 5%.
 And it's also worth noting, again, going back to that original request for community services, when that was submitted, we did receive some public comment in opposition to it. There was concerns about the potential for excessive residential densities being built at this location and how that could contribute to traffic. Conversely, the same commentary expressed a desire to see services in this area, understanding that the potential for that could reduce car trips for the residents that currently live there or may live there in the future.
 with that in mind as a little bit of a timeline of how the request came to council at that march or the march 11th planning commission meeting that's where the community services request was first heard staff was not in favor of that the planning commission had similar concerns and ultimately tabled the request unanimously to afford the applicant time to
 reconsider, which they did. And at the March 25th Planning Commission meeting, they brought forward an amended proposal to NSG Neighborhood Services General, which staff changed their recommendation to support. The Planning Commission forwarded it to Council unanimously and acknowledged the similar vein of commentary that occurred throughout this request, that there is a need for services or the potential for services in this area.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions. Mayor, I have downed the applicants as Daniel Stewart or Tim Briseal, but I'm not certain if they're here or not though. Is the applicant here online or anything? Okay. Well, do we have any questions for the staff? Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, can you give us a brief summary of the comparison of Neighborhood Services General versus the Limited one?
 Thank you, Council Member Whitaker. Yes, thank you for the question. As their name suggests, limited is intended to be a smaller scale, generally both on the residential and non-residential side of things. The NSG zone district when it comes to commercial uses allows for buildings with a footprint of up to 8,000 square feet commercial buildings.
 Whereas the NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited Zoning District has a much more limited size, which is based on what commercial activity specifically, but it can range from about 1500 to about 3000 square feet. Both the zoning districts do allow single two, three and four family dwelling units with NSG allowing it in smaller lots than NSL. Thank you. Certainly. Okay. Any other questions? All right. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this topic? Good evening, Mayor, Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive.
 This is perfectly in character with the development that's current in this area. It is surrounded on all sides with new neighborhoods, some that the city participated in facilitating, one of those LIHTC projects we talked about a couple of weeks ago. Some others that have had neighborhoods built around them that are now
 as far out as it is, they're literally infilling gaps that were left in the smile of Weddington out there, I guess. This may be just a little bit outside of one of our tier centers from the growth concept map. That one out there at Devil Springs is
 uh probably not the ideal place for development now but with the number of places coming in a little bit of services would be fantastic and i think housing is still allowed in this zoning type so they want to incorporate that into a mixed use plan fantastic hope you hope you will approve this one thank you who else would like to address us who do you have on zoom lisa no one mayor all right i'm going to bring it back to the council
 This is on the first reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I'll move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Oh, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Excuse me, Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes and in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-6 for approximately 1.28 acres located at 5916 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4. from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general
 make a motion we suspend the rules go third and final reading second we have a motion and second to go to third and final reading jackson would you please call her up or yes wedeker yes ferna yes punch yes church yes hertsberg yes stafford yes jones yes
 and in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition 2024-6 for approximately 1.28 acres located at 5916 west weddington drive in ward 4 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general okay final comments from the council jackson please call the roll moore yes peter yes verna yes lunch yes turkish yes
 herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes that's number four an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district title pzd 2024-001 for approximately 16.72 acres located at 3568 west west mount comfort road in ward 4. kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section 1
 that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby approves pzd-2024-01 as described in exhibits a b and c attached to a planning division's apartment agenda memo which allows the development of 16.72 acres of mixed residential units section two that the official zoning map of the city of fable arcs are hereby amended to reflect the zoning change criteria provided in section one above jonathan thank you mayor
 This request takes us to northwest Fayetteville. Sorry, allow me a moment here.
 Northwest Fayetteville and Ward 4, it includes about 16.72 acres just east of Holt Middle School, which is just off screen here to the left-hand side beyond Ruppel Road, and just north of the recently constructed gas station that's at the northeast corner of Ruppel and Mount Comfort. The property is currently undeveloped. There's no indication of any floodplain, protected streams, or identified hydric soils on the property.
 The request before council is to rezone it from its current somewhat mixed designation, which is predominantly zoned RA residential agricultural, which you can see in green on the right hand side and a small corner in the Southwest that is CS community services to a PZD or planned zoning district. The images you see here are from the PZD booklet that was submitted with the request, which includes a conceptual plaque, as well as the neighborhood zones, which I'll break down here in just a moment.
 uh neighborhood zone is the nomenclature used in the pz booklet but what you may have heard staff refer to those as more frequently are planning areas uh so i'll try to to voice both when i'm talking about them to make sure we're all on the same page
 The first one I'll discuss is neighborhood zone A, which you can see here in the light green, which wraps around the exterior of the property along Ruple Road to the west, up to the existing subdivisions to the north. This includes just south of 10 acres of the overall property and is proposed to permit single and two family dwellings on 25 foot lot widths,
 and with a three-story height limit, which that height limit is reflected in the existing zoning districts to the north of the property, which are almost uniformly RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. The balance of the property called neighborhood zone B
 that includes somewhat less acreage just under seven acres and permits the full breadth of residential uses as fable classifies them from single-family homes up to multi-family homes while there are a lot with requirements for the single-family homes there's no a lot with minimums for other residential uses if you had an opportunity to scrutinize that
 conceptual plot. Some of that has to do with a goal or effort to have some of those lots be oriented towards green spaces, which is not something that our zoning code typically affords. Similar to the other neighborhood zone or planning area, this one is also proposed to have a three-story height limit similar to the neighboring residential areas to the north and northeast. When it comes to land use compatibility, staff does find this to be a compatible request.
 This property is situated between an area of fairly high entitlement to the south, which is zoned CS community services, which has no density limits, heights up to five stories, a wider spectrum of residential and non-residential uses, and lower density single family dwellings and subdivisions to the north.
 Staff feels that this proposal has a very tasteful transitional nature to it that will be complimentary to both future development to the south and existing development to the
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff also finds this to be complementary of our goals. This area is designated in our future land use map as a city neighborhood area, which is intended to be supportive of a wider breadth of residential uses in particular. This PZD request responds to that with the two neighborhood areas I described with single and two-family homes allowed in portions of it and a wider spectrum of residential housing types for the remainder of it.
 With an infill score of five to seven, staff finds this to be an appropriate increase in entitlements, certainly from the RA residential agricultural designation, which at this time is more of a relic of the property's previous use in this area's previous history than it is of the direction it's going today.
 When it comes to other items for tree canopy, if the council doesn't recall, PZDs have the highest tree preservation standard along with our RA zoning district. So it'll be awash, for lack of a better word, where 25% is required today and would be as well if this PZD was approved.
 uh when it comes to public comments staff did receive quite a bit there were several several inquiries about this staff sat down with a group of residents as well to discuss what the pzd entailed ultimately we did not receive what we'd characterize as any opposition or support there was one member of the public that spoke at the planning commission however who
 did express their support, their acknowledgement that this area does need additional housing and that the city as a whole needs additional housing, but with also questions about, that are more from the development level about how density or how, excuse me, how traffic would be handled and how stormwater would be handled.
 With all that in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission ultimately forwarded it to City Council unanimously. There was one recusal, which you see there. There was limited comment, similar to the public, the individual who spoke at the meeting from the public. There were also questions here about development level issues. These tend to come up a lot with PCVs because a lot more detail is offered at the time, but not to the point of where engineered drawings are available or detailed studies.
 and so with that i'm happy to take any questions the council has and mayor ali quinlan is here as the applicant for the item okay would the applicant like speak for the council you have 10 minutes
 Thank you for having me this evening. We are hopefully really bringing this as an education-oriented development. We're really focused on a green street that's central to this that's lined in townhomes, and we were pushed into doing a PCD, really two elements. One of them is opening those townhouses. They'll have a front porch and then a sidewalk access and a large green lawn so that as you open your front doors, you sit on the front porch, your kids are running out into a park that the neighbors can play in rather than into a street.
 So that zero lot line, zero minimum width is really just set to achieve that we can create those as fee simple lots so that somebody can get a traditional mortgage to purchase that house. Townhouses are by bank standards and by financing standards single family homes and that's often how people get their homes.
 will buy them. These will be relatively small, but they're three bedroom, they're geared towards families that might have kids at the elementary school across the street. We'll have a crosswalk that breaks up a really long block on Ruple that it will have flashing, you know, kind of an enhanced crosswalk is the verbiage that the planning commission
 And so we'll have a really great ability for families to be able to walk their kids to school and shortcut that pickup and drop off line, which is really appealing to a lot of young families. We're also there is a component that's outside the PCD that's in the CS that will include some multifamily and hopefully some service amenities along Mount Comfort.
 So hopefully a little bit of a mixed-use neighborhood that can bring some lower price point homes, you know, more attainable than what we've seen in terms of freestanding houses in the neighborhood. And while our lot width minimum for the single-family home areas is relatively narrow in case we end up with some weird corners.
 We are showing relatively large kind of normal size lots along the north with some landscape buffer between the single-family existing neighborhood and then it gets denser as it goes south but generally we're looking at a 35 to 45 foot wide lot cottage lot. Those are rear loaded. We're facing two new sidewalk along Ruple Road for the single-family homes and so this will be a good mix we think of price points and housing types.
 the building code and banks consider the single family homes our code specifically considers them as multi-family and so we don't have a code right section right now that really lets us do a town house development like this at scale and so we in order to put five town houses together that is considered a multi-family development even if they're on their own lot even if they're sold individually even if the building code and you know a bank would consider them single family
 So, I think some of the terms and verbiage in the PCD may sound a little bit more intense than what's shown in the PCD and what's planned. And we've broken this into two different planning areas to really control that some of the geometry of what we're showing now can't be adjusted. That it can't, you know, you can't put a giant multifamily section in the middle of that. It's really intended to be what's shown in that plan. And we've worked with the planning office to be able to.
 tweak some of the details to get everybody comfortable so hopefully this one won't be relatively straightforward but i can answer any questions that you like i'm here representing the developer who was hoping to be here himself but they had a death in the family today so he was not able to be here thank you okay what questions do we have for the applicant or the state holly i've got a question for you sorry do you have an estimated number of units
 that you might be able to provide for us? I should have looked that up. I have to admit I don't have that off the top of my head. I might have to phone a friend on that one. Do you have the plans for like the point of access? Is it all on Ruppel Road? We've got the full development plans include one shared connection with the, there's two lots that are between us and Mount Comfort. If we can pull up that site plan by any chance.
 We are showing one shared drive for both of those lots. One of those lots is owned by the same developer and one is owned by a developer we are working with. We are attempting to get one shared curb cut to minimize the access onto Mount Comfort but still connect. The north-south drive you see in the middle will connect straight down.
 As a land use policy request, the PZD can't consider the multifamily section. So you'll see there's a little white block that planning asked that we put over that. But that drive will continue south to Mount Comfort. We're then connecting both to the east and west, tying our drives up into the neighborhood to the upper right, which will provide a little bit better connectivity for that neighborhood.
 And then we've got two drives that connect out to Ruple. So we've got a really long block there in the middle, but it's got a pedestrian path that cuts all the way through it so that you can walk from the right section of the neighborhood all the way across to Holt Elementary. And then Goddard School is going directly to our east. So we'll have schools on either side. We've got a pedestrian path that's off street that connects between the two of those. Okay, and...
 think I mean I like the development my concern is with the school traffic from Holt having to make a left-hand turn from those two driveways I think that that might back up traffic quite a bit so I do have traffic concerns aside from that that's that's my only concerns is the traffic thank you anybody else
 well and i appreciate you asking the access questions um with as a parent that has an 8 and a 12 year old who oftentimes has different modes that i kind of interact with the school i actually am incredibly thankful that there's less access just because i worry every single time there's a cut to the sidewalk when i'm on foot with my kids even though they're quite safe like they they typically are more cautious there's just that interaction with those drives and so
 I hear you on the traffic. The hope would be, I hope we will retrain folks and that it will make sense for them to try to get home a few minutes early and actually go walk or bike over to get their kid and pedestrian back so that maybe we're not having so many people that are trying to come at it at the same time. Thank you.
 There's also connection down through the gas station lot. So we've got an alley access that cuts into that and then it has an easement both out to Ruple and to Mount Comfort that was required as it was platted. And so there are significant kind of connectivity increases between you could come up through the neighborhood to the right to get over to Salem to avoid making a left-hand turn. It connects all the way over to Salem in that neighborhood. And then you also could go south to Mount Comfort and then you've got multiple points of entry to Ruple.
 with the shared driveway with the gas station is that one of the points of access you're talking about it's not one of our main points of access but we've got a secondary alley so that if there's an accident if there's you know some some kind of issue and it also lets people if people need to stop and get coffee or stop and you know get gas on their way to work they don't have to get out they don't turn left on the main neighborhood Street they don't turn left on RuPaul to turn left back into the gas station okay thank you yeah and mayor
 Something that I don't know if I'm the friend miss Quinlan was referring to but the the PZD book that does propose approximately 125 units as a part of this proposal. I'm so glad you Chipped in that because I would have really guessed wrong on it. I appreciate it Jonathan Anything else? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak You have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. I
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those who are speaking by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 Kyle Smith again. My neighborhood is just down Mount Comfort and when I tried to come tonight I was attempting to turn left out into the after work traffic And it's not fun when you live in a neighborhood that only has Two access points and they both go out to Mount Comfort at that point. Thankfully the neighborhood that's developing behind mine opened up an access road out to Dean Solomon and
 that relieves so much pressure. Normally I would come up here and I would talk about the variety of housing in this project and how we need a hundred and whatever five more units, but this one is worth it just for the traffic and potential traffic improvements for adding connectivity through through that neighborhood where a
 At a recent FableStrong meeting, a resident from McLaren, that's the one street that connects straight through from Salem to Ruppel, was asking for help with traffic calming applications because people go through there. This will provide them alternative routes. It might relieve some of that. That's great.
 I've y'all stole some of the thunder with the talk about going through the gas station parking lot but I hope you also notice that includes stub outs for future connections to Mount Comfort and to Salem and that will only improve the connectivity issues with time and we know that connectivity and getting people off of Mount Comfort is A big issue for residents up there. Hope you'll approve this one too. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 you have anyone on zoom no one okay all right i'm going to bring it back to the council this is um on the first reading what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take well i'd like to suspend the rules and move to the second reading second you have a motion second to go to the second reading jackson would you please call the wrong more yes yes erna yes
 yes yes yes Stafford yes yes and orange approved residential plan zoning district entitled PCD dash 2024-1 for approximately sixteen point seven two acres located at 3568 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4
 well I guess we're going to leave it here then I'd like to spend the rules okay the third and final reading all right second we have a motion a second to go to the third and final read Jackson would you please call the roll Moore yes Whittaker yes Verna yes Fudge yes Kirk yes Perksburg yes Stafford yes Jones yes
 And in order to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled PCD-2024-1 for approximately 16.72 acres located at 3568 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 4. Any final comments from the council? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Munch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, let's move on to number five. An ordinance rezoning a property described rezoning petition RZN 2024-0002 for approximately 0.24 acres located at 740 West Stone Street in Ward 2 from RAU residential intermediate urban to DG downtown general kit.
 and be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban to D.G. Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, which reflects the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us back towards Central Avila into Ward 2 specifically.
 The property is located specifically between Hill Avenue to the east and Duncan Avenue to the west. It's about two blocks east of Fayetteville High School and it's located on the north side of Stone. The property is currently undeveloped with access to both Stone Street to the south and an improved alleyway to the east side of the property.
 Although undeveloped, it was recently rezoned. My notes, I'm sorry, I believe indicate, yeah, 2021, it was rezoned from the previous RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to its current RIU residential intermediate urban. The request before council is an appeal from the planning commission's denial of a request to rezone the property from RIU to DG downtown general subject to a bill of assurance.
 I do want to preface this conversation that it is unusual what I'll be discussing tonight. I wouldn't do it a little bit at agenda session, but this one is almost as much a procedural and administrative question as it is a land use question. And I'll be less cryptic about that as I work my way through the presentation.
 As I noted, this property is located on the north side of Stone Street and is zoned currently RIE residential intermediate urban. Similar to the remainder of the area or the overall large area, this property zoning entitlements reflect what's on the ground today. It's a mixture of residential units, either detached single family, a large amount of
 residential as well especially increasing in intensity and high density as you move north towards the main University of Arkansas campus staff does not take the issue with the the proposed uses of the request going into a little bit detail there what's proposed is a downtown general zoning district with a the bill of assurance that removes all but residential
 allowances from that zoning district so what's what's being proposed is single two three four family multifamily cluster housing accessory dwelling units and short-term rentals so from a compatibility standpoint staff does find that it is absolutely compatible this is a almost uniformly residential area and the crux of what the applicant is requesting is uniformly residential in nature
 Similarly, from a long-range planning standpoint, there is indication that we as a city should expect to see this property develop to a higher density and intensity. It has a very high infill score indicating many elements that would contribute to it being very supportive or complimentary to a wide range of housing uses. There's the aforementioned high school to the west, the university main campus is not too far to the north, there's grocery services to the southeast, and there's also transit nearby.
 As I touched on with all these items, there is of course a tree canopy consideration. The existing RE zoning district does require 15%. The proposed DG zoning district does, excuse me, the DG zoning district does require a minimum of 10% canopy.
 When it comes to public comment on the request, staff has received a couple pieces on that.
 There were concerns about parking in the neighborhood. For those of you who are interacting with Fayetteville High School in that regard, you know that there are a lot of concerns about where students are able to park and there were some alarm was caused that any additional housing on this property could potentially aggravate that. This brings us to the bill of assurance for the request.
 As I noted, this is the Downtown General Zoning District. I think it's worth noting that the intent of it, as its name suggests, is to support a wide range of uses, both residential and non-residential. Staff has significant concerns about taking the Downtown General Zoning District and effectively neutering it of any of those non-residential zoning uses as a means of achieving a specific development type that is already allowed conditionally under the existing RAU zoning district.
 Other elements of the Bill of Insurance include restricting the number of units to five or less in a given building. As we've discussed a couple times tonight, that is Fayetteville's cutoff between multifamily and other classifications of residential. Once five units are attached, it's classified as multifamily, which is a conditional use in the RAU zoning district, but it's allowed by right in the downtown general zoning district.
 The last element of the bill of assurance being proposed is to not exceed three stories in height where DG would typically allow five stories. As it relates to that, I did want to draw attention to a specific piece of ordinance that was adopted several years ago in targeting development in downtown. It's known as the home protection requirements.
 If you've not had a chance to visit those, they are specifically meant to reduce the height entitlement of any properties zoned DG or MSC when they're adjacent to single-family dwellings. Staff does have a concern with designating this property as downtown general with the explicit purpose of using it residentially.
 will inherently also limit the use of the property because of these home protection requirements where they limit how high a building can go when it's next to a single family dwelling. And I've attempted to visually demonstrate that in the image that you can see here where the area indicated in red, if the proposed building or if a proposed building were to exceed 24 feet would not be allowed to build there.
 I'd be limited to 36 feet in the area that is yellow before segueing beyond 30 feet where I could go to above 36 feet.
 So with those considerations in mind, again, staff does not take issue with the proposed land use entitlement. Our concern is largely to do with the encumbering of the property with a bill of assurance that effectively replicates many of the allowances already found in the RIU zoning district, either as a buy right or a conditional use.
 Planning Commission felt similarly, although with a mixed opinion. They denied the request by voter three to six.
 Those that were in favor felt that the bill of assurance assured compatibility. Those that were opposed felt that the bill of assurance was a signal that there was a lack of compatibility and that a conditional use permit was probably the appropriate route. I don't believe the councils have the opportunity to consider a conditional use permit for development recently. It's mostly been short-term rentals.
 that looks like generally is if someone were to come through with, in this instance, a five unit building, which it appears from the bill of assurance the applicant may be proposing, they would need to present a site plan and elevations of what that building would look like for the planning commission to make a determination of its appropriateness at this location.
 That does represent a bit more burden on the front end for an applicant. I certainly want to acknowledge that and that is often why applicants prefer to rezone property so they're not required to work through those details before knowing they have entitlement. However, the condition use route is available currently under the REU zoning district.
 Hopefully that clarified staff's position. Again, I realize this is an atypical instance. And lastly, I wanted to
 I encourage the council to ask the applicant which bill of assurance or what bill of assurance is being offered. I know that there were two that were brought forward and have been attached to the agenda at this point. They appear from staff's perspective to be identical, but they are dated with different dates. So I did want to put that up front for the council before you begin amending this request if you feel the bill of assurance is appropriate.
 And with that, I'm certainly available for any questions and I'm happy to hand this off to Brian Teague, Mayor, who's the applicant for this item. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor, City Council, I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design, representing the property owner and developer, Dr. Sachi Sanduram, who should be on Zoom if you have any questions for him.
 I've worked with him for the last four or five years. This will be our fourth project that I've done with him. And most of those projects, all of those projects are kind of missing middle housing types. We're pretty excited about this one.
 I asked Jonathan to bring up some slides for me. And we've done a lot of homework on this one, and I have to say, Jonathan, we haven't considered what you brought up in your staff report. That wasn't brought to our attention.
 I might ask you at some point, hearing this item, if you wouldn't mind letting me review that diagram that you brought up one more time. But I'm starting out with the neighborhood map that we put together, neighborhood zoning
 Zoning map, the property's on Stone Street. You can kind of see it there highlighted in red. It's about a five minute walk to the Walmart neighborhood market, two to three minute walk to Fayetteville High School to the west, about five minute walk to Center Street to the north where you see all the blue downtown general. And that is the apartment blocks, five story apartment blocks, the Cardinal, the Atmosphere, Eco Flats,
 I think it's worth bringing to your attention also there's a rezoning going before the Planning Commission on Tuesday just to the north of us in that Treadwell Putman block. It's about 500-600 feet away from us and they're requesting Main Street Center, which is more intense than downtown general.
 I took a walk around the neighborhood last night and we can kind of go through these quickly but what I was wanting to communicate is the scale of the existing buildings in the neighborhood now. We had a two, started out with a two-story house on Duncan. Across the street there's a six-plex that's two and a half, three stories.
 at the intersection of Stone and if you wouldn't mind just hurry through those, Jonathan. At the intersection of Stone, there is not just residential uses but non-residential uses as well. There's the Elevate Women's Center. That's the same building, two and a half to three story across the street from it. There's a two story church.
 that faces out onto Duncan. Across the street there's more two-story housing. Next slide, one and a half story single family housing that's immediately to your west. Immediately to the east there's some new town homes that are two-story. To the east on Hill there's some newer three-story town homes. Next slide is...
 And this is kind of the scale of what we're trying to match with our five plex. It's two and a half stories, single family. Jonathan, if you wouldn't mind to just flip through these. We've built some of these on Cleveland. We've built
 on cleveland those are four plexes and we built four of those just slide through those quickly jonathan people really seem to like those um you know they match the scale of a lot of single family neighborhoods we built them on washington and spring that's a five plex that's a one and a half story elevation but it's actually a three three story uh five plex
 And then the next few slides, coming back to Center Street, I thought it was worth talking about the Atmosphere Building, which it's five story apartment block.
 And we're not trying to build to that scale, but I think that the density is important. If we want to preserve our farms and forests on the edge of town, if we want to protect our water quality in Beaver Lake, if we want to provide affordable dwellings, affordable housing and transportation, if we want to encourage our residents to walk and be more active and healthy, then in places we need density like this.
 It's a contrast to what we're proposing. Next slide, Jonathan. Next slide is kind of an elevation, but it is an elevation of what we would be proposing, the five plex that we would be proposing on Stone Street. It's 28 foot wide, two and a half story, five plex that would look like a single family house. We're trying to bring density to the neighborhood.
 But we're also being sensitive to the neighborhood and we're trying to bring buildings to the neighborhood that fit and will hopefully go unnoticed for the most part. Back to the map, what I wanted to show you, there's two properties zoned R-I-U in the entire neighborhood. We're one of them. So it would require a conditional use permit to build multi-family or five dwellings in a building.
 while the entire neighborhood, everybody around us, they don't have to ask for a conditional use permit. Next slide, Jonathan, please. So, you know, I think conditional use permits are appropriate in a lot of situations in RSF4 neighborhoods where we're
 proposing cluster developments, potentially short-term rentals. This unique situation in a multi-family neighborhood, for the most part, if you will, it just didn't make sense to us.
 the problems the issues with the conditional use permit on our end is that subject to appeal i've had two of them two projects appealed in the last four years one of them was appealed um to a higher court than the city council they got bogged down there for for over two years i think i
 and people just kind of tend to move on when that type of thing happens. It takes two months to get the Planning Commission. The approvals wouldn't be certain.
 Extra time would be involved with the developer, planning staff, planning commission. I think the benefits of by-right development, it's not subject to appeal, it's ready for building permit applications. So if we had our plans ready, we had the right zoning district, we could apply tomorrow. It's really just less time for everybody involved, us, planning staff, planning commission. Either way.
 the five plex it's still subject to the same development regulations so we really struggled I'm sincerely struggled to see what the benefit would be to to staying with our IU and doing the conditional use permit next slide let's see city plan go number one we will make infill
 We will make appropriate info and revitalization our highest priority. The first objective of that goal is to allow, as of right, development in designated locations. And it goes on to say how it will speed up the process to make things less expensive for developers.
 Next slide is the city's future land use map where we're blue, we're city neighborhood, which encourages more densely developed neighborhoods, non-residential and residential uses, also multifamily.
 In closing, the last slide, you know, I think it's a unique situation. We're compatible, our proposal to Downtown General with the Bill of Assurance, it's compatible with the neighborhood. It's not going to create a measurable increase or traffic or a dangerous situation.
 Again, I think five plex in this location is in accordance with what the city plan. There were some other things, one of the reasons I brought this appeal forward is that it really calls to attention I think the need for two more form-based zoning districts. We have six right now. Be happy to answer more questions about that. We don't have time. Last, I'd be
 be if anybody has questions we happy to answer more questions about the bill of assurance and the reason why RMF 40 really doesn't work for us at this location okay times up what what questions do this council have the app just procedure I just want to know you are you offering this bill of assurance and which is which dated bill of assurance are you offering to the City Council if they agree with your rezoning one the one with the most recent date is the one that we're that we're offering
 it should have added a third condition which limited dwellings inside a building to five or less. I emailed everything and then somebody else hand delivered something. So if they're identical, then that's an error on our end with the delivery of the physical copy.
 okay and so all the conditions at least on that one are you're agreeing to offer that's right do we have any questions from the council if if i may this would be i'll wait till jonathan's available oh i'm sorry yes no no that's fine that's my fault
 thank you council member did you say for for me councilman were you there i was going to ask the planning commission date was march 11th when would the applicant had to have submitted that to get on that march 11th planning commission date the i'm sorry the bill of assurance or no no the actual item that went to the planning commission on their march 11th meeting and where i'm going with that is i'm just trying to compare the timeline um
 The submittal date for the March 11th Planning Commission was January 31st of this year. Thank you. Mayor, I think the applicant had some clarification on the bill of assurance if he wanted to come up. He used that time. If you want to give him more time, I'm cool with that. But those are rules. The bill of assurance, we emailed one.
 to your kit and then we hand delivered a second, the original copy, it was intended to be the same thing. By the looks of this, I think that it is, this limits to residential uses only, it limits to five or less dwellings per building, it limits the height to three stories. So that's what we were intended to bring forward.
 That's correct. Yes. Yeah. Do you have a copy of that? Actually, you got it. All right. Can I ask one question? Sure.
 I really would like to study that diagram, Jonathan, that you pulled up. I can't even remember the terminology right now, but we've got a really tight lot and that may in fact impact it to where if that applies to downtown general and doesn't to RIU, we may be better off withdrawing their request.
 Well, are you asking us to table this? Would you like us to table so you can get some clarification? Hang on just a minute. Ron, are you asking to table this? I would like to take a look at that piece of the ordinance or whatever that is called to give us a chance to look at that and make sure we're doing the right thing. I'm sure the council will be willing to table it, won't you all?
 Hello, do you need... Or at least leave it on this reading. What reading are we... Have we gone through all three readings? Yeah, you can leave it for two weeks. Can you get it all done in two weeks? Sure. Then we just leave it right here. I'd just like to say I do like the idea of rezoning this correctly so you don't have to go through this UP process. I know that's a timely and costly process a lot of times. So where we can rezone, I think it is the right move to do.
 and other than that yeah I'd gladly make a motion to table we don't need to technically need to do is just leave it two weeks I mean it's on the first read okay and we just leave it two weeks and surely we'll get our business done by then and then if we need to go another two weeks so you can go six weeks if you without approving but you don't need to table is what I'm saying unless Brian you need something
 two weeks plenty of okay well that's good i just want to clarify don't we have an off week we do so it'll be three weeks yeah okay well let's just leave that one here it is let's go to number six a resolution to establish a new full-time employee for a housing coordinator to focus efforts towards the housing crisis declaration of april the 2nd 2024. sarah this is yours
 Thank you, Mayor. So we had some conversation over a period of time. I've probably lost count at this point in regard to the housing resolutions that had come forward. And in the original one from the community, they had asked for a task force and a house.
 housing coordinator position was noted as part of that and subsequently in those conversations had been kind of resolved through Kind of a morphing of multiple resolutions over time And so the reason that I brought this forward was because there was additional conversation in the community about this role but additionally
 There are conversations that we've had when we were talking about the 24 budget about a previous headcount and long-range planning that did Kind of a similar function. So I don't want us to get too caught up on What the title is of the person really it's about a person that would be focused on housing That would be a long-range headcount to fulfill that the goals of looking at our long-range plans and our city plan in that task force
 If you recall, there was communications, sorry if I remember the exact head count, but it was somebody for long-range planning for the 24 budget and we weren't able at the time to fund that with the other budget constraints that we had. That person was going to do things like look at, I believe, some of the feedback within the community and some of the big strategic planning initiatives that we had.
 Additionally, I want to touch on the second thing is going back to so much of this conversation over almost this past year had been around that original resolution. And so there's been a tremendous amount of individuals that have asked about there being headcounts that are specific around this project.
 And then the third reason that I brought this forward was that while we have the task force in place, and that's incredibly important, can do a lot of really good work, we are really asking those individuals to do a lot. We are asking for very high caliber individuals with lots of expertise and training.
 They have lots on their plates. They have full-time positions themselves. And so we're asking for them to take on a lot. And so in an effort to really tell those individuals that will apply or are considering applying right now because that task force application process is open through the end of the month, I think it sends a really strong and clear message. When the city says that we are willing to invest in this task force and in these initiatives
 solutions and we hear loud and clear our community saying that they want these kind of investments to happen going forward. Some of the feedback that I thought I heard, please correct me if there's additional things I'd be happy to discuss, but we're around some of the ambiguity potentially around what
 role would actually be of housing coordinator I brought forward and I'm not married to with the the draft job description that's nothing that I'm saying that you know I would come up with myself or the community but suggestions that's a starting point to try to clarify not have ambiguity we know that HR I would take on that role and they would you know listen to the specifications that we'd like included they grade it but I really wanted to clear that up
 Secondarily, funding, obviously, going back to our budget discussions, why we weren't able to do the original headcount for long-range planning is that I had some time to sit with the finance department and to discuss the American Rescue Plan Act monies, ARPA monies,
 we still have over a hundred thousand dollars that's in the original bucket that's available to be allocated and so i looked at that because one of the you know biggest reasons that arpa was put into our communities was to really look at disproportionately impacted populations and housing and things that were really exasperated through the pandemic were the
 financial outlays that we could do. And so I'm proposing tonight, just in line with the task force being a year, funding that individual for a year to do their salary and their benefits, but also some incidentals, much like we do on our bond projects,
 Let them be able to potentially travel if there's a best practice. Let them bring in experts if we need to maybe facilitate a workshop. Any kind of equipment or different things the task force might have got additional funding that would be in there for those incidentals. So that's an all-in cost that I'd be asking for a $90,000 budget adjustment.
 i think that i i covered most everything but i'd like to open the floor to any discussion or any comments um really again at the end of the day i'm very open and flexible much like i think there's been a lot of discussion about what this could become but it's really detailed out in that section one that
 really being focused on convening the housing task force, assisting and supporting the efforts that are identified by the task force, being a liaison both to community organizations and also to city staff in different departments on housing matters. You're really facilitating community and stakeholder engagement. You know, those are landlords that's
 developers, renters and people that hope to be homeowners. And also we got metrics that told us what our gaps are, but it really does take a lot of diligence to continue to follow metrics and to create dashboards and to report back on for making strides in those efforts. And so this role has that potential as well as a possible ability to have that great,
 funding resource and looking at some of those financial mechanisms that might be identified you know bonds etc that the task force might bubble up so what questions council Bob yeah sorry take me a second to get started together my thought
 Thanks for identifying like funding. I think that's a good concern and thank you for Coming up with the the draft of what the that was one of my earlier issues. What is this position? What does it do? How does it different than maybe what what Britt and Bostick is already doing? You know and then I you know my personal thoughts were wouldn't this be better for something coming from the task force but I think you
 answered some of my questions there and you know I kind of thought we were you know that this had been dealt with but I have heard from a lot of my constituents and in personal discussions this is something that they do the people I prefer from do want but yeah so I'm willing to listen to more discussion on this
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan and City Council members. I appreciate Council Member Moore's efforts tonight. And when this resolution was initially brought, I felt the, I echo, she has echoed many of my concerns. And I felt that at some point during the process,
 during the work that the committee is going to do, then in order to sustain this, I think that it would be to our advantage to designate someone, to hire someone
 to do this work and I've done some research as well not to the extent of council member Moore but I've looked at some cities I know that Little Rock that they either have hired or they're hiring a housing officer and so with this being such a complex issue and in order for us to really address it and meet the demands in the way that they deserve to be met I do believe that we're going to
 have to at some point, if we want to do it the way that it should be done, that we're going to have to invest in hiring someone to continue this work. So I do plan to support this tonight. And if not tonight, if we don't support it tonight, then I hope that we keep this on our radar as we move forward in this housing crisis process. Thank you.
 okay anything else all right i'm going to take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address on this topic in the chamber
 Hello, my name is Ren Miller. I live at 617 North Scottsdale Drive in Fayetteville in Ward 1. This is my first time speaking before the City Council. I don't usually have the opportunity. I'm one of Fayetteville's many second shift workers, but I'm really excited that I get the chance to talk to you guys tonight. I've been following the generation of the Housing Task Force very closely. I've had friends speak on my behalf in this chamber before.
 And I'm really happy to see us taking steps to its creation. I think that having someone dedicated to and incentivized to the position of coordination for the new housing task force would be overall a great net gain. I think it would take the onus off of the task force to shoulder additional duties and responsibilities in conjunction with their own day-to-day lives.
 I think it would also give us someone who has access to resources and information that are available to a member of staff. I think in the face of an already very deeply complex issue like this housing crisis, that adding whatever assistance we could to the experts and peers that will be members of this group would be of a benefit to the project.
 i know that in regards to northwest arkansas our population is on a rather blazing trajectory to probably hit somewhere around the population range of 1 million by i believe 2050 so i would really like to as a member of fayetteville see us catch up to the needs of our people in regards to our housing infrastructure and i think that having an additional staff member to help set up this task force for success has great value thank you very much thank you
 Hello, my name is Gideon Derzon and I live at 1530 North Pershing Street. I'd like to encourage all of you to support the creation of this housing coordinator position. It's amazing and wonderful that the task force has been created and it's so exciting that all of the chosen experts are going to be able to work together on creating long-term solutions for the problem facing our city. All of the people on the task force are going to be busy professionals that genuinely care about the issue at hand with sought-after skill sets.
 I believe that we owe it to them to support them in the ways that they'll need it most in order to help usher in the future that helps Fayetteville and her people thrive. One person and one person's salary to help support and ground the experts that are being gathered seems like a fair price to pay for this kind of support, which I believe will ultimately be worth far more to the city than the sum of money used to pay for this position.
 I think that having a static person who will, over time, not only be an expert on individual facets of our housing crisis, like the members of the task force, but on the nature of housing in the city as a whole, will be a huge benefit. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yes.
 Sorry, I'm a hobbit. My name is Haley Scotch. I live at 12136 Pine Tree Road. I'm a student at the University of Arkansas studying for a social work degree. And as part of my training, I have had to volunteer at Seven Hills Homeless Shelter for over 30 hours of service. And in addition to that, I worked at the Fayetteville Public Library as a building services
 a worker and I have had a lot of interaction with people under the unfortunate poverty and homelessness and
 I absolutely encourage a housing coordinator, and I would hope that the council would potentially consider hiring a social worker or somebody who can understand the complexities surrounding the housing crisis and just take into consideration the intersectionality of having to 
 specifically create locations and being able to facilitate the populations of Fayetteville and honoring those. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Kyle Smith again, last time tonight I promise.
 They've made some great points. The one thing I want to add is that this is your opportunity to decide whether recognizing and declaring we have a housing housing crisis was a statement that we're going to say and then go through some some motions to make it look good or if it's something that we are committed to addressing It's not a ton of money it's a a
 source that's not going to impact the general fund, which was a big source of concern at budget time. That's all understandable. But investing this now is how we get the most out of the task force that you created. You've established the group, now we need to make sure they have the resources that they need to be the most effective group that can be. And having access to what the city staff has access to is
 probably shouldn't be underestimated when you consider what a bunch of full-time professionals are going to be able to do on their own thanks thank you who else likes your dresses okay lisa do you have anybody on zoom mayor nobody has their hands raised okay then i will bring it back to the council what discussion would the council likes to have or what action would the council like to take i'd like to make a motion go to a media vote second
 can we that that requires a vote right now and it requires a super majority of two-thirds in order to pass that motion okay jackson please call the row moore no wedeker yes verna yes lunch no kirk yes herzberg yes stafford no jones jones
 oh the motion fails mayor okay all right i'm sorry uh i'm voting no okay all right what discussion would council like to have sir bob um i just had a question and you uh you mentioned that it would be funded using erpa funds
 Sorry, they can't hear me head nodding, I apologize. Yes, the American Rescue Plan monies, I know that Paul is here and can probably speak more specifically to those criteria. I know that you have to have them allocated by 24 and spent by 26, I believe, is the current guidance. So, okay, so it doesn't need to be allocated this year?
 It could be, however, we informed the council earlier that we were coming with any remaining funds, including interest earnings, in June for the council to decide at that time how and what they wish to fund. At this point of time, there is sufficient funds for this. However, it would be my opinion at this point in time that we could fund this until the end of the fiscal year.
 And at that point in time, we would have to look for another alternative, since it's a city employee. And then a fellow, can I ask my fellow council member a question? Yeah. OK.
 Do you see this as something that just lasts during the task force or reviewing in that period like at the end of the fiscal year and trying to find new funding for it to keep going? Or what's the intent with the 
 No, I really appreciate the question. You know, I've had the privilege to get to travel to places like Austin and Atlanta and Denver over the last year. And, you know, Fayetteville, I think we had that conversation together as a body that we're not incredibly unique in the fact that we're facing housing crisis, right? The nation is facing.
 With the housing crisis, however, oftentimes we've been quite ingenuitive. Those different cities are really focusing resources around housing and creating different unique positions, some like in Denver that are looking at real estate type opportunities.
 So when I looked at this potential role, that's where I said at the very beginning, I'm not so dead set on what the title is and really think it's a great discussion point about the breadth of things and expertise level that could come into this role potentially because it's exploratory. We get to pilot potentially for this fiscal year or the next year or year and a half what this role could look like. And with the thought that the findings that the...
 um payoff from the ability that this person adds to our team of city staff that they would be someone that would make sense to envelop within the city budget ongoing again when we talked in 2024 there were multiple positions within
 the development services department that they had requested that we had budgetary constraints to. It wasn't that we didn't need those roles, you know, it really was financial. And so we knew at that time that we potentially needed some similar, you know, potential type role, depending on where, you know, we land with the job description. And so I see this as an opportunity to potentially have a few things in this as we explore, you know, what this could look like for us.
 But additionally, from a timeframe perspective too, to let you know, wanting them to get moving now because as we have to post and then hire and get them onboard, as we form that task force, not wanting them to be behind, being able to be a part of that formation and setting those goals and onboarding alongside them.
 So I hope that answered your question. Yeah, and just you mentioned looking into other cities, did you see positions similar to this in those cities that you looked at? You mentioned Denver. Well, I mean, in some of those cities, because their population and their tax base are so different than ours, and when I would go to, say, Denver, perhaps, and they maybe had certain things, they might tell me, well, you know, this is coming from our residential
 or marijuana tax or what have you. And so there's different financial structures within, but there are different teams depending on which city on different focus points around housing. And it looks different in each city. Cool, thank you. Okay. Thank you, Council Member Moore. And of course, to add to that, I think it's very important that we, when we look at what the housing,
 that the commission is going to do, that they've been charged to do. I appreciate the comments that Kyle Smith made because it's so very important that we begin to financially, that we financially invest in these challenges. The efforts...
 to create a task force, that's commendable. But if we really want to do the work and make a difference and at some point, you know, get us to what's called functional zero, then I think that having someone at the city to lead these efforts on a,
 on a daily basis. And I think that this problem is so complex and it's impacting so many individuals. I think that the only way to really, really, really do this is to hire someone. And I would like to just know that what would be their...
 If someone could show me if we really did this work, how can we do this work the way that it should be done without hiring someone, without asking, without adding to the city, without...
 I think that this is one of the things that we, again, we have to task for, but being able to invest and to help us develop even more creative solutions and for me being able
 what the commission is doing that's very important. And so I think that this, again, Councilmember Moore, I really do appreciate your efforts, your homework, your collaborating, and your seeing the small details and addressing those as well. Thank you so much. Sure. Mike had his line on also. Oh, I'm sorry. Bye. Thank you, Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. Mm-hmm.
 I think I have two concerns. One is procedural and memory and then the other is advocacy. So I know that we arrived at a joint merged resolution and that resolution included amendments and the position was proposed to be eliminated by council members
 from Ward 1 and that that was a part of that whole compromise process. And so I don't want us to have a revolving door of continuing to bring up that resolution because you don't want me coming forward and saying, gee, I'd like to remove the word crisis from the previous resolution. Well, that would be completely inappropriate on my part. That would be bad faith. That would be saying, let's agree to something and then let me change my mind later on.
 What I had proposed and would continue to propose is that the best money we can spend would actually be to fund positions that actually are part of the engine that reviews and approves housing projects. And that would be my first preference. That was the preference that I had in my original resolution, that's the preference that I would have today.
 If, on the other hand, the task force comes to us through the mayor and says, gee, we've convened ourselves, we've elected a chair, we've organized ourselves however we want to be organized, and they then come to us, I would view that as a separate request, and I would be very open to the task force through the mayor making that request. So that's a procedural concern I have, and then I would just reiterate my original point
 preference, which was that as a part of the compromise, I removed any language through Blake, who did an excellent job of identifying the positions, whether they were plan reviewers or inspectors or planners, and just let it be generic at the mayor's discretion. I would be much more comfortable if we pursued this from the way I described it. Thank you. Okay. I have a question for you, Paul.
 So let's go back here and kind of help me understand. So we're going to review the ARPA funding in June. We're going to talk about any remaining ARPA funding. Right now, we were looking at anything that had interest earnings involved.
 We're also checking with those that we have contracts to see if any of them do not believe they can complete those contracts. And we're going to come back with that amount and request the council, ask the council what the council wanted to consider, uh,
 obligating that money on because it's got to be obligated by the end of 2024. Okay, so that would give us plenty of time to get funds if we have things left over to get them allocated by the end of the year. So what were you saying about funding something until the end of the fiscal year? Well, I believe since that's an employee, which an employee can in fact be engaged before 2024,
 At the end of 2024, I don't believe that that can be carried over after that period of time. So only until the end of the year is what you are saying? Until the end of the year. At that point in time, right. Okay. Okay. So any funding that we have left over, could any of our other partners that have already gotten funding, could they come back and request more funding or could we? At the end of 2024?
 No, it was our funding our funding at the end of 2024 the way it reads right now That is the end of your obligations from then on you have two years to pay after that of any obligations up to that point in time and
 Okay, but could we not say, okay, we have some money left over from ARPA, could we put it into another organization like Seven Hills? No, not after 2024, not after the end of the fiscal year. Before the end of 2024, you could put that money into another program. You could put that into child care. You could put that into workforce development. You could
 pick some other other critical thing that you You might decide on at that point in time, but that needs to be done and obligated by the end of 2024 Okay, thank you very much Paula. I appreciate it So so I have some concerns about this because of you know what he just said about the being able to finance it and everything also
 When we're talking about, you know, Austin came up. And Austin is five years into a 10-year plan right now. They're not doing things a year at a time. And I just think that this maybe needs a little more time.
 you know, before we commit to something, it needs a little more finessing. And I'm not quite sure that this position is the one that we need. If we've got extra funding, we could maybe put it into one of our other tried and true programs that we know is very effective and maybe not do this position. That's kind of what I'm one of my concerns with it. So school. My concern is
 kind of twofold with along with Councilmember Whitaker and also Councilmember Bunches. I felt like we spent a lot of time working collaboratively trying to get the resolution in such a manner that was productive for the city.
 and I thought we had agreed that this was going to be removed for further review later. In using the ARPA funds, I would be opposed to that just because we have a couple of programs that have shown significant
 contribution to their group, be it child care, be it workforce training. Those have given us significant return on our investment. I'm not convinced that, especially with what Paul just said, that this is the best use of the money.
 for that position. I think we can be better served putting it back into some of the other, committing it to some of the other programs that have shown significant advantages to our community as a whole. So that's where I would sit on this. Yes, sir.
 I appreciate the feedback and I want to acknowledge that yes, through this compromise set of resolutions, we did arrive at one agreed upon housing crisis resolution, but we also did say we were in crisis.
 And so I think it does benefit and behoove us to really look at and consider the potential of an investment. And I hear the hesitation around what the headcount looks like.
 I guess also I don't want to discount, it's incredibly important, so many different staff roles. We need many more staff. If we obviously had an infinite budget, we would have so many more staff in different areas.
 But I've been saying that we have a crisis and hearing about specific programs like child care. Yes, again, those have been great programs. I think only 30% or maybe a little more of households have children. So some of these programs are very specific to parts of our population. But naming it as a crisis, a housing crisis.
 It's so much of our population. It's our entire population that's impacted by that. And so I guess that's where my consideration to you tonight is to say, again, I'm not saying it needs to be Sarah's idea of what the position is. It's really saying, I think we need a dedicated headcount in agreement with what long range planning said in the 2024 budget process.
 couldn't this fit some of those goals it's incredible what Britton Bostick can do in long-range planning but she's one person and she's a superwoman so I want to give her props for that but I also I really wonder if we are able to give her a counterpart of her caliber you know what really could be accomplished in that department and so
 I hear the hesitation around what the headcount itself looks like or how that gets determined. I hear the hesitation around the ARPA. That's unfortunately the first time that's been brought up to me about that crossing over the calendar fiscal year. I'll be honest,
 I would have wanted to swing for the moon. I felt quite conservative asking for a pilot of one year. I didn't bring a half million dollars forward. I wasn't asking for a million. I was dipping my toe in the water because, again, holding hands to say we might try this and not like the results, but being able to try to tweak and figure something out there, knowing that there was a desire from staff, that there was something in this journal area that was being considered. And so
 I would have much rather looked at what ARPA was remaining and would have looked at having it out through 2026, but I was holding hands about being true to the one-year task force that we don't know if we'll extend that. And so I stuck with the one year. But I do think it will show that it's necessary. I think that it will prove itself out to be a huge benefit. And I think that there'll be someone that will want to stay on. So again, I appreciate the comments and I hope you'll consider that.
 Kit, I have a question for you. Okay, go ahead. If I may. When did, when were, I don't remember this, and I mean, this is just me, but when were we, I don't understand how we could end debate before we even have a discussion. How does that work? Is this the right time for that? I'm just curious.
 in the right time for dispersing arpa funds or no no no no is it the right time to discuss uh making a motion to end uh not even have a conversation about something oh our you know you could if you wanted to if you think that there's been enough discussion uh you could move for an immediate vote if you wanted to okay thank you thank you
 So are you going to do an immediate vote or what? Thank you, Mayor. Sarah, since you wanted feedback, I'll provide my perspective. You know, I think we really tried very hard to get a good compromise between the two resolutions, as Council Member Wiedeker discussed. And I don't think we would have gotten a compromise if the housing coordinator had stayed in there.
 even with ARPA funds possibly being available short term. I believe that we reached a good conclusion, a good compromise by having the ad hoc committee
 I'd really like to give them a chance to come up with some innovative ideas and get together and research all of that. Sure they're busy people, but they're actually, this is what you wanted. You wanted an ad hoc committee. It was going to take time away from their day and maybe their weekend to serve on that. And hopefully we'll find great people, which I'm sure we will in this town, that are very talented.
 and that will be willing to spend their time solving some of our difficult problems. So I kind of feel like, you know, it's a little bit of a bait and switch right now. And I don't think that that works well in the future.
 The second thing is, you know, we also asked for innovative ideas on housing solutions when we had those remaining ARPA funds, those $1.4 million. We only got two submissions, two applications today.
 Housing coordinator was not in either one of those. I wanted a different submission, but we got one that we, I think we, you know, I supported it because I felt it was the best one in that group. But a housing coordinator was not submitted. So there was an opportunity already to have a housing coordinator idea submitted by the public, and it wasn't.
 So, I'm not going to be in support of this. I really think we need to give that ad hoc committee time to formulate, to bond, to work together, and to come up with something. And I also think it's important to go through the budget review process. That is the way we do business. We don't try and, you know, throw chaos into our system unless it's an emergency and, you
 I know that we have some issues, but I think we can solve them. And I think this committee has quite a bit of potential. So thank you. Yeah, I just want to...
 You know, Mike, I understand your, Councilmember Wiegerker, I understand your concerns and I had the same concerns with this when I saw this on the agenda coming back up. I'm like, wait, didn't we already work it? But I don't think that Councilmember Moore is acting in bad faith or, you know, I think she did do her homework in finding what she thought was a good funding source.
 and obviously it puts some homework into really defining the position, which to me were both some of my earlier concerns.
 understand it like I do think like we all felt like okay we all came together we all worked this out we all came to a consensus and agreement but I don't want to anyone to think I don't think that the council member more is acting in bad faith at all I think she went and kind of doubled down and did her homework I do think that
 you know, that maybe that ARPA funding, unless somebody else has other ideas that maybe this is a good thing, it'll help us maybe find a position to the point, you know, through the fiscal year. And then we say, is this worthwhile? Is it effective? Or maybe not so much. And then we could say, yeah, that's...
 Now, it's hard to hire someone like that. You know, obviously, like, hey, why don't you come on and try to sit down, and we don't know if you have a job next year or not. But there probably is a way to do it as a temporary position. I don't know. I thought that Council Member Jones brought up a good point that this could be used as basically someone, you know, the task force is going to be meeting on a semi-regular business,
 and it might be good to have someone that's here on a daily basis that they could take what the task force came up with and do the work on the ground on a daily basis. That's maybe worthwhile to me. If you have the task force just meeting
 once a month or whatever their schedule is going to be, it might be good to have a coordinator there on a day in, day out basis to kind of continue the work of the, and coordinate the work of the task force and and to bring that work to us, to bring it to staff. So those are things to me that are kind of like, okay, maybe that's, maybe that is a good idea. Maybe, maybe it is something worth looking at. You know, I still
 Yeah, how do you hire temporary positions? Point of order. But that I don't know. What? I just was hearing some noise over here and I was having trouble with hearing Bob. Okay. I would like to add to that, to Councilmember Moore, you didn't do anything wrong. You did what a councilmember should do.
 I felt like, you know, that nobody did anything wrong as it relates to wanting to go back and revisit something. I don't think that's wrong. I don't think that's in bad faith. You know, I can... We all have examples of what's bad faith, and I've experienced some things that I can call bad faith, but, Sarah, what you did was not one of those things, and I do think that the community really appreciates your advocacy.
 I did just want to add one clarifying thing to the conversation of why additionally I brought the headcount forward. I've actually been approached by individuals that as professionals in the community say
 Say that if the city's not going to have a set resource that they're hesitant because they are concerned about you know They want someone to be able to write their ports They want someone to be able to do the research in between and these are people that are high-caliber that we'd want to be A part of the task force and so just I do want to clarify I mean it's it's been feedback that I've been given it did give me pause because you know I want the best of the best. I mean, I think we all do because I
 We did say that we wanted this task force to be set up for the best success. So I just, I did want to clarify, and again, that was feedback from someone considering actually applying to be a part of the task force. Anything else? Okay, I got a couple of points I want to make. First of all, we started taking applications last Thursday morning. Right now I've got 50, yes, and I've got to pick about nine.
 So that means I'm reading through all these applications. And I'm not going to be able to do that overnight, folks. That's not something I'm just going to get done. I want to take my time and make sure that we get somebody on there that's very competent on this task force. Now, the other thing is that I have never, when this task force is going to be set up, and basically I have until the end of June to do that.
 If you do put on a housing coordinator, the HR department will have to define that, and then they're going to have to look at that position, so that's going to take some time. Now, if the task force is established, the first thing they probably will do is elect a chair, and then that chair will start to meet.
 with staff and I've never denied council members you access to the staff not ever you come and meet with my staff and I don't necessarily have to do that but I want to work with you not against you so therefore this you have access to the staff my chief of staff meets with some of you every week or two or month or something.
 So whatever help the task force would need, the staff will be available to help. I'm not necessarily going to assign somebody to that task force, because they've got other things to do as well, and you bring up a good point. But I feel like that we all worked together over about three meetings, and spent several hours, and I thought we had worked this thing through, but obviously,
 That's not necessarily so, but I know that I have the charge of picking this task force and pick it. I will make no mistake about that. So it is going to take me a while to do that. In the meantime, to put then HR's got to define a position. We can't just hire somebody off the street and just do it. They got to look at their requirements, things like that.
 And I thought that we had already pretty much, I agree with Teresa, I thought we'd already voted on this thing, but two weeks ago. So that's my thoughts on that. But right now I'm trying to get a task force put together. And I'm going to tell you, I've got departments in this city right now that's needing help also.
 So y'all got to keep that in mind. And you're going to be looking at some of this in June. I'm meeting some of these departments right now on the needs that they need. And some of the needs are pretty critical in the city. So you've got to keep all that in mind because you were talking about wanting to be more involved in the budget. Well, I'll bring you some stuff in June that you'll see what we're looking at right now. There's a lot of need out there and there's not that much money. Now, I know the ARPA funding would be
 would help but also we got we're trying to do trying to do a workforce training and I wanted to look at even childcare and some of that and everything's going to be put in the kitty here so that's kind of where I'm at with if I had to vote I wouldn't be voting tonight on this so with that Jackson call the roll we need a motion to approve motion to approve
 second okay we have a motion second to approve Jackson would you please call the roll more yes we'd occur no Erna no lunch no Kirk no Hertzberg no Stafford yes Jones yes motion failed five to three okay
 all right that concludes our business do we have any announcements no announcements mayor all right thank you all we're adjourned
 Oh, yes. I'm sorry. I did forget about you. Come right on up. I perfectly understand. I was a couple things up myself tonight. I thought that the housing crisis was something else entirely. But thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Oh, I'm sorry. My name is William Harris. I live in Ward 2, 258 South Church.
 I've been a resident of Fayetteville for 18 years. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and members of the city council, for offering us this moment to visit with you. Last Monday on the 8th of April... Hang on, Mr. Harris. How much time do you think you might need here? At home, I squeeze this into three minutes. How much? Three minutes. Well, that's good, because that's about what we give everybody around here. We're already adjourned. Go ahead and give it to us in three minutes. All right.
 uh best i can last monday on the 8th of april i left a proposal for you regarding the homeless issue in fadville this was presented to the mayor's office and to the council's office where it was graciously received along with a copy of my letter to the editor on the same subject which had been recently published on the 6th of april
 So, the word is out among us. I am hoping that Fayetteville can lead the way in developing a system of collective housing for peer groups that might share a variety of their particular identities.
 These peer groups might include homeless Vietnam veterans who identify together as such, or battered women who identify together as such, or recovering alcoholics, or unemployed diesel mechanics, or any other manner of folks who can identify in common based on secular, religious, social, gender, generation, based on any meaningful identity. The question I bring before the council is,
 How shall such peer group housing be so regulated as to permit its integration into our neighborhoods? That question encompasses many smaller questions which need to be addressed in some kind of an enabling ordinance. How shall we define permitted peer group houses and prohibit others? How shall we define the sponsors of such houses and what guarantees are required of them?
 How shall we define the members of such peer group houses? What constitutes a peer group and what must be required of the members? How shall such a house be constructed? On what land? For how many members? How zoned? How coded? What conditional uses? After all of that, one final question might occur to you. Why should we bother? Well, of course, we want to offer homes to the homeless.
 But more than that, we want to offer them the fellowship that they need to settle permanently. And we want them to find the productivity that they need to remain sustainably. Our model for this peer group housing can be the old monastic houses of the church, which offered fellowship and developed industry among their peers.
 Our hope for this peer group housing can be found in northwest Arkansas' unique array of talents and resources. Countless astute minds among our neighbors are looking for the opportunity to innovate new solutions to big pervasive problems. They hunger to build vast networks that might repeat a good solution in a franchise fashion.
 And they hope that their networks will harvest wealth and power and influence, just as those old monastic orders did. Here in Fayetteville, where the homeless problem has become a crisis of its own, we can lay the groundwork for the solution. And hopefully, those vast networks will be headquartered here.
 Thank you, and what a night this has been. Thank you very much. Thank you. Now we're officially adjourned.