I'd like to call to order the City Council meeting of April the 19th, 2022. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones. Here. Pinion. Here. Whitaker. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Bunch. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, a resolution to award RFQ 22-01. Number two, a resolution to award RFQ 22-01.
 Selection number two and authorize the purchase of on-call materials testing services from McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated, Olson Incorporated, and GTS Incorporated based on price and availability as needed through April the 30th, 2023.
 Number two, a resolution to award RFQ 22-01, selection number three, and authorize the purchase of on-call surveying services from McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated and Olson Incorporated based on rates provided and availability as needed through April 30th, 2023. Number three, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an engagement letter with BKD LLP-CB
 and pay any amount not to exceed $117,320 for auditing services for the 2021 audit. Number four, a resolution to amend Resolution 33-22 by reducing the amount of reappropriations to the 2022 budget by $9,279,035 and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 So moved. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kinnian. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's go down and finish business.
 Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-003 located at 2235 West Weddington Drive for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RI12 residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. This was left on the second reading at the last council meeting. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Thank you.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-003, located at 2235 West Weddington Drive, for approximately 0.443 acres.
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to ri12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre jonathan thank you mayor jonathan kirth with the city's development services department uh this is a reminder this property is in ward four uh on the on west weddington which is on the dividing line between wards two on the north side of the street and ward four on the south side i did just want to offer a quick update given there was a tour on the property yesterday afternoon
 Of course, I want to encourage the council members to offer their piece of what they heard or talked about, but the main items I picked up on were there were a lot of questions about access management and parking on the property. Those are not necessarily guided by zoning. They're all just guided by the land use and what's being proposed on it. There are access management standards in the city and they would be at their highest restriction on streets like Weddington that are of high volume.
 There are also questions about setbacks, both side setbacks, which would be five feet similar to the existing zoning district, and also about how close a building could be built to Weddington. It is a build-to-zone requirement and the applicant's proposed residential intermediate urban zoning district, so buildings could be placed closer to the street, but not all the way to the back of the curb. There is some Arkansas Department of Transportation right of way that extends beyond the curb several feet.
 which we looked at the property. And I did have a chance for those who were in attendance and saw where the power poles were along Weddington. Those are effectively the back of that R dot right away. If that gives you any sort of idea of what we're looking at. And then the last major piece that I recall discussing was about tree preservation.
 The existing RSF4 zoning district does require minimum tree canopy of 25%, so that is driven by zoning, and the proposed RAU zoning district does have a reduced amount of, compared to that, of 15% on the property.
 Otherwise, there has been quite a bit of public comment since the council last heard this item. I think by my last count, and I may have missed a couple late this afternoon, there were about 12 or 13 pieces that had come through the clerk's office. There were a lot of mixed opinions in there between those in support and those in opposition. If I can take the liberty of characterizing those a bit, those opposed had concerns about maintaining the single family character and the low density character of the area.
 concern that the city should only be upzoning properties where the whole neighborhood wants it. There were assertions that this request represents spot zoning. And then there are also comments about, concerns about traffic on Weddington and any loss of tree canopy if the property were redeveloped. The flip side of that, there were several pieces heard that were encouraged to see that a rezoning could possibly lead to a redevelopment of a dilapidated property.
 There were concerns about not supporting requests like this would further heighten concerns about our housing crisis we're experiencing or the assertion that there's a housing crisis, but the indisputable evidence that there are increased housing prices in the area. Also that this property was an appropriate location given its proximity to a transit location and amenities and the interchange.
 And also there was a comment that if council were not to support this, they shouldn't support other attached residential uses or non-residential uses that are in somewhat close proximity to the property.
 Lastly, and this is up to the applicant to offer, but they've indicated that they are interested in offering a revised bill of assurance tonight. I'll defer to him if he wants to do that. If he does, Mayor, I'm happy to summarize that or speak to that once it's on the table. Otherwise, I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here or do you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 So my name is Pablo Pagliani. I've been here a couple times. Yes, in addition or in revision to my previous bill of assurance, something that was brought up was the maximum of unrelated residents that would be allowed. I believe with RI-12, the max is four.
 SO WHAT I'M PROVIDING IN THIS REVISION IS A MAXIMUM OF THREE UNRELATED AS AN ADDITIONAL BILL OF ASSURANCE IN ADDITION TO THE DENSITY OF A MAXIMUM OF TWO DUPLEXES WHICH WOULD BE FOUR UNITS. SO I HAVE THAT NOTARIZED AND SIGNED. BUT THAT'S ALL I HAVE. NEW SPEAKER P. COURT, PLEASE.
 and that's that's all I had okay what questions do we have Jonathan do you want to do you need to summarize did you say the bill of assurance
 I'm sorry. I did want to comment on the new addition to that which the current residential single-family zoning district does allow three unrelated Individuals per dwelling and so with the applicants request to amend to our IE residential intermediate urban It would have the impact of allowing for unrelated individuals per dwelling so the addition to the bill of assurance tonight is
 would basically cap the number of the family size to what's currently allowed into the single-family zoning district and and the way that was written by mr. Pagliani is how staff would interpret it thank you okay what questions do we have in the council for the staff or the applicant okay well let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 Please stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Lisa Orton. All right, go ahead. Lisa Orton.
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hustle Road. And I mean, I personally wish the Pagliani's well. I'm just concerned about upzonings in general. I'm opposed to zoning properties within neighborhoods that want to stay low density.
 If it's true that Fayetteville residents as a whole want upzoning and infill within their neighborhoods, there will be neighborhoods that want to increase their density and become more urbanized. And I think that is where it should happen, as well as in the midst of already commercialized areas changing.
 But I think that those neighborhoods that don't want to be up zoned, gentrified, or urbanized should be forced to do so. And specifically in this case, I'm opposed to the up zoning of this property because even though it's on the edge, it is part of a low density historic neighborhood.
 containing University Heights, Sang Valley, Waterman Woods, Lawrence Circle, and so on. All the residential homes on Maple Hill and Markham Hill surrounding areas. And the upzoning creep
 It just feels like this is part of an example of upzoning creep. And I think that upzoning creep in neighborhoods destroys what many residents love about Fayetteville. And I believe it's possible to develop and create affordable housing in other ways. And also, RU, well, in general, I mean, this would be precedent. If this upzones to RU, other...
 And our extended neighborhood is already burdened with failures in this area to make sure that not more than three unrelated people are in homes. And this all increases traffic on our residential roads. And so, we're going to have to make sure that we're not going to have to do that.
 And also in general, RAU decreases the tree cover. And our neighborhood, we just love it because it's lower density and full of trees. It's historic and it just has a real history. And also, Weddington does not need more cars exiting from driveways onto this busy street. And there's no alley behind this Pugliani property to exit any other way.
 And also, as I said, upzoning in our neighborhood and in any neighborhood creates a precedent for individuals or companies to buy parcels to not live there, but to upzone, develop, and sell to simply make money. And this does not seem fair at all.
 And also the developer, developers and landowners can still develop and make money under the current zoning. And so, I think that's a really important thing to consider. And I think that's a really important thing to consider. And I think that's a really important thing to consider. And I think that's a really important thing to consider. Thank you.
 And there could also be some variances. So anyway, thank you so much for listening. I appreciate your time. Bye. Thank you. Who else? No one else has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address this in the chamber tonight on this issue? Sorry, someone just raised their hand. Jim Garlock. Okay, go ahead.
 First of all, thank you very much for the opportunity to comment on this rezoning. It's not just a simple rezoning request here. This is basically one of four arteries to the west of 49, the only four arteries that the city has. MLK, Weddington, Porter, Mount Comfort, and Highway 112 Garland. Thank you.
 In medicine, if you have a clogged artery, you've got a problem. Unfortunately, we're going to have two clogged arteries if this is approved because the precedents would be set that our R.I.U. would be fine in this area. And my major concern is between Lani and Tseng on the south side of the road, there are 15 curb cuts between that short distance.
 On the north side, there's 11 curb cuts on the north side of Weddington. If this is approved as an RIU, I think we're going to have a major problem between the two Tier 2 centers, Weddington and the recently approved.
 and then the Weddington and I-49 two-tiered two centers. I believe in the city's 2040 plan, but I think we're a little short-sighted if we're gonna be approving RIU in this year.
 We really need to think what goes in between one of the four major arteries heading over I-49. I would actually like to see this get pulled back to the long-term planning and see how this would fit as a tier two centers on both sides of this. We have a great biopsy.
 I've ridden the bus through this area and there's exits or stops on both Porter and Sang and it's a great bus system. That said, we don't need to encourage more curb cuts on an artery. We have a West Weddington plan, but we really need to have a...
 I-49 to Garland Street Plan. Thank you very much in your consideration. I would really like to see this have a little more thought in what the long-term implications of an RIU would be. Thank you very much for your opportunity to speak. John Aucott You're very welcome. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 No one else has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Let me ask again, is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us on this issue? All right. We'll bring it back to the council. Council, this is on the third reading. It is an ordinance. So we're ready to vote. I mean, what discussion would you like to have or what action item would you like to take? So we're down to the final reading. Thank you.
 comment I just want to thank Jonathan for meeting us out there yesterday it was really nice day and and you know there it is it is was quite busy because we were there almost at 5 so you could really see the the traffic which we're well aware of the traffic on Weddington but I do want to address mr. garlic's concern because I was wondering about this as well
 The current residence has like a sort of like a U turn in it so that you can get in and out, turn around your car. And so that's not going to be the case. So because of the upzoning, it's going to actually reduce curb cuts. So I learned that.
 I also learned that this is a local owner, we're talking about somebody who lives here in Fayetteville, so that's awesome that we have somebody here that's willing to invest in the property and bring four homes where there was only one.
 The structure was incredibly in poor, poor, poor, poor, you know, disrepair. And they had had reports of, you know, people squatting in the space.
 and safety and so you know, I feel like the property owners really trying to do something to improve the neighborhood and bring some beauty and Some variety to the neighborhood because those new four homes will bring you know variety of people to the neighborhood I'd learned about tree negotiation. I didn't know about this, but there will be a requirement of that 20% Jonathan tree canopy I
 Under the proposed zoning? Under the proposed. 15%. 15, okay, 15. And that's 5% less than where we are, I think. 10% less. Okay, thank you. That's why we were talking about this yesterday, that Jonathan's a walking encyclopedia to help us know. But then what they do is they negotiate potentially on what kind of trees are there. Because there's a lot of trees, but there's some that are really potentially more maybe historic or more...
 native and so they kind of look at that once the proposal has been gone through planning. So that was very interesting. And then I think one of the things I really think about in general is the future, Fayetteville's future. And I agree that it is a very traditional single family home residence
 a neighborhood with lots of single family residences but this is with this being a major thoroughfare you know I see what the best is potentially you know going up and down and they were going up and down while we were there we could see that I just don't see a lot of single-family homes wanting to be in such a major thoroughfare and it makes sense to me to have a lot of density in that space and and maybe even having students there that could just easily ride the bus and get on to
 to the campus. So I did think about it very, you know, I know this neighborhood loves how their neighborhood is, but I wanna just let you know why I would be supporting it. So thanks Jonathan for your expertise.
 I'd like to add on to what Sonja said. I feel very similarly and I think with the RAU that's been proposed, it can kind of scare people but with the bill of assurance, I feel like it's very reasonable. It's a really narrow piece of land. You can only put one house and then you have a bunch of land that's just left unused. So I think that the way that they have proposed is very reasonable and practical.
 And Weddington is a state highway and it's, as Sonia said, it's not, you know, likely that somebody would want to have a single family home there. So, yeah, I will also be in support of this request.
 I want to thank Jonathan and also the owner for the tour yesterday. That was really enlightening and very helpful. It is a very deep lot, there's no doubt about that, but there's no alleyway access back there and there's no right-of-way access that's been plotted.
 So I'm very concerned about access management issues, as we've kind of mentioned before. I also want to note that there's no turn lane right there on Weddington. It's a very busy street and kind of an accident waiting to happen. So there is no middle lane there. And this will add some congestion to the area if we upzone. My other concern is that it is right smack dab in the middle of the block.
 And so I think that this would meet the definition of spot zoning. There's not a transition. It's RSO4 to RIU. So there's really not a transition zoning in there. And it's right in the middle of the block.
 What I think would be the best way to go is to actually pull this back, take a look at how that entire block or maybe the next two blocks would be zoned so that you could have some kind of consistency.
 You wouldn't just be spot zoning. You would actually have some thought, some deliberation put into higher density in the area potentially because we are growing because there actually is some transit there that's readily available. But to do this as a one-off and at such a high density, even with the bill of assurance, I think is problematic.
 And so, I will not be supporting this. But I do really appreciate the support that you've given to the RSIU. And I think that's a really important part of what we're doing. And I think that's a really important part of what we're doing. And I think that's a really important part of what we're doing. And I think that's a really important part of what we're doing. And I think that's a really important part
 I do appreciate that as well as the tour yesterday. I have a few comments and I can't see how, can't figure out how to raise my hand here. So I guess you can all hear me. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. I'm going to ask you to raise your hand. I'm going to ask you to raise your hand. I'm going to ask you to raise your hand.
 Is the city attorney there by any chance? Yes, I'm here. Hey, Kit, what designates, I mean, what are our standards for when we look at something and we think we consider if it's spot zoning or not? Well, spot zoning is kind of a funny term in that it's never really been defined.
 anything by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. It is a spot. Zoning is something that's generally defined as something that is very different than everything else around it. So you put a commercial right in the middle of residential. And that goes back to the old older styles of zoning. Now we have mixed use zoning, so we allow commercial right there by residential and we don't think twice of it so the arguments about spot zoning is really pretty much faded away.
 You probably probably shouldn't put something like urban thoroughfare next to single family house, something like that, maybe because that's such a dramatic change. But apart from that, you just need to look at compatibility. If the zone that's being requested is going to be compatible with its adjoining residential or even other zones, then that would be OK. If it's actually not going to be compatible, then you can turn it down for that reason.
 Okay, so it's supposed to be kind of capricious in nature and and Kind of maybe malicious. I guess I don't know I always thought it was supposed to be just just wildly wildly out of character for a neighborhood And I don't really see this as spot zoning because we have other you know Similar types of property in an area not too far from this so You know, I'm going to be in favor of this because I think it is
 It, you know, if the person, you know, it's going to take out one driveway, we're going to have better access, actually. And if they wanted to build, if the house was, you know, fit to do anything with, they could also add an ADU to it and, you know, come out with just a few, you know,
 units less than what they are requesting. So I think I'm in support of this. I think it's a pretty good fit for this neighborhood. You know, they've done a lot to try to make it what we would like to see. And I kind of feel like we have, this is,
 That we have put these people through the hoops of fire to try and figure out what we want as a city. And they've tried to come back and they've tried to work with us and everything. I really do feel that this is going to be a better fit for this neighborhood than what is currently there. It's going to be a vast improvement for the neighborhood. And I think this is totally appropriate where it's at. Thank you.
 okay thank you mr mayor yes i would normally um have concerns about the riu but i want to commend all the residents and citizens who who wrote in support or opposition either way it was a significant amount of community interaction on this project but i also want to commend the applicant
 I've never witnessed anyone else be as responsive to the concerns that neighbors would logically have. So if you are going to build a couple of duplexes
 neighbors are fearful about their on street parking being just degraded by an overflow of both residents and visitors and And I think that's a significant move for this owner to actually propose both limiting themselves to two duplexes and then further restricting to three occupants and
 there is no capacity for on-street parking to be degraded. They are gonna handle all of their parking on site, which makes Mr. Whittaker jump for joy. And I think tree preservation would be my one and only concern at this time. But if the structure was in pristine condition and was an example of the historic structure, I might have second thoughts. But I too, in this instance, because of the responsibility of the applicant,
 I feel that that deserves to be acknowledged. Thank you. Thank you. Any other final comments? Yeah, I know a lot of people are concerned about traffic. Traffic happens when you have uses far away from each other. Kind of an example is imagine a Thanksgiving dinner and you decide to put all the dishes at different places in your house and all of a sudden you magically have traffic instead of a line.
 I understand the concern because this is already a lot of traffic. So, you know, my only issue is more curb cuts. But it seems like that's kind of been taken care of. I would much rather have these houses east of I-49 than west.
 I assume the people, whether this was east or west of I-49, probably are going to go to the U of A, especially if it's a duplex. And by not having them part of that cluster going across the interstate will help traffic in the long run. I think the decision to not allow more density here because of already existing traffic is kind of using...
 The symptoms is a reason not to take the solution. So I'll be for this up zone. We need more houses. It's pretty insane how behind, I think the last estimate I saw was the United States is seven million houses behind. That's not just Fayetteville, that's the United States. People need a place to live.
 So I'll be voting for this because I think in the long run, it'll help traffic, not hurt it. Mr. Mayor, I need to probably point out to the city council that if you are in favor at this point of the applicant's request to amend this to R.I.U. subject to his bill of assurance, then that would have to be done by motion because right now you're considering R.I.12 with no bill of assurance.
 So you're saying we've got to have an amendment to change to what the... If that's the will of the city council to change it to R.I.U. with a bill of assurance, then that has to be done by a motion to amend it. Thank you, Ken. I move to change to R.I.U. with a bill of assurance. Second. We have a motion and a second to change from what we're looking at right now to an R.I.U. with a bill of assurance, correct? That's correct. Okay. Any discussion on that?
 just both bills of insurance even though we refer to it singularly would include both of them correct i can speak to that mr mayor the applicant had submitted a revised version of his original one which includes both the items so it is a single bill of assurance with both items one was the limitation to two duplexes or four units as a maximum and three unrelated individuals
 John as I as you know I drafted a proposed ordinance referring to the bill assurance and that was referring to the latest bill of assurance that he just presented To you tonight. Yes, let me share a nice good. All right. All right, then we got a vote on this first and then Yeah, the fine right. All right. There's not any other discussion carriage. Please call the roll Jones Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And just for clarity to the public, let me read just the title of that, it's been slightly
 ignorance the reason on that property described a reasonably petition RZ n 22-003 Located at 2235 West Weddington Drive For approximately 0.4 three acres from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to our IU residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance Okay, any other final comments from the council? All right care which please call the roll Jones Yes, Kenyon. Yes. I
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number two. Okay. Thank you.
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-093, located at 1101 North Woolsey Avenue for approximately .75 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Now that was left on, also left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading.
 So I move we go third and final reading second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final read care Would you please call her Jones? Yes, Kenyon? Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes Turk. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes
 In order to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 21-093 located at 1101 North Woolsey Avenue for approximately .75 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Thank you, Mayor. I don't have any new information or updates on this one. Staff and the Planning Commission, as a reminder, support the request, although the Planning Commission did forward it by a split vote of 8 to 1. We've received no public comments since the last meeting, and I believe Hunter Atkinson is here as the applicant, and I do have a presentation ready for him if he'd like to make it. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay.
 Good evening. First, to thank you again to staff for your review. We're grateful. Council members, we've discussed this rezoning some before and that discussion has largely been about preservation of this historic structure. Yet, this is a question of rezoning, not of preservation. Still, tonight I'd like to address both of those points.
 To start with, let's consider preservation. It's been asked what we can do to ensure preservation, and the answer is very little, save for the act of preserving it. And here's what I mean by that. Inclusion on the National Historic Register doesn't restrict demolition, and neither do state tax credits.
 If we can get listed on the NHR, then we could apply for federal tax credits on appropriate renovation work, and that would protect the property for up to five years after the work's been completed.
 The most robust protection we can give the structure legally is a historic façade easement in which we donate an easement to protect the structure's façade. And that protection would transfer with the title in perpetuity. And that's our intent. However, the property must be on the National Historic Register to be eligible for this easement donation. And we won't know for some time whether it will be approved, though we are optimistic from our conversations with the NHS that listing will be granted.
 Would you pull the slides up please, Mr. Kerr? So at the moment, the best assurance of preservation is our current actions to preserve it. Slide please. And by that I mean the investment of time, drafting the house so that we can work with it carefully. Slide please. By the coordination of a permit for work to shore up the integrity of the structure so it doesn't incur further damage. Slide please.
 by our past, by our proposed plans, which we've taken the time to develop, slide please, and our past history of preservation work with multiple Fayetteville properties. And the next few slides are just examples of that kind of work. Again, though, this isn't a preservation question, it's a question of rezoning.
 So, this is a conserved request and is the least intensive zone that would allow for the existing use of the last 25, almost 30 years to continue. Council has asked the important question, what would this rezoning allow as use by right? That's a vital question. With NSG, the only additions to permitted uses allowed beyond those allowed under RSF4 are general businesses, home occupations, and sidewalk cafes.
 Though interim use as professional offices until residential restoration can be completed is of course our intent, frankly none of these seem likely to be detrimental to the neighborhood. And as staff noted in a previous discussion, with street parking a traffic calming effect could be expected. So to the question of preservation, I hope that our research and our past work has shown a credibility to our intent.
 to the question of rezoning it's in line with long existing use patterns and beneficial both to our and the council stated goal of the preservation of the historic structure we'd be grateful to hear from the council whether they can support this request thank you and we're available for any questions okay what questions do we have for the applicant or staff on this from the council
 I think this is for, I don't know, either Jonathan or the applicant. So, my understanding, and please correct me if I misremember this, that they had six months to actually use that in the same way that it had been used previously. And after the six months, that use type or that allowed use, historic allowed use would expire. So, I'm wondering if you can tell us
 And they and that time elapsed because they were working on the foundation or some other structures of the house. Jonathan, were they informed that they only had a six month time period to to actually get that all completed so that they would retain their historic use of the building that that had been used in that way in the past, in the recent past?
 I can't speak to whether this specific instance the applicant was advised. They can speak to that better than I. I know that Ms. Quinlan, who works with Mr. Atkinson, they have run into that before. So it's an ordinance that they're familiar with.
 Unfortunately, we don't always pick up on changes like this when a property is being used as a non-conforming use and somebody pulls a building permit for something. We're not always aware of what they're wanting to do and able to point out that opportunity to an applicant.
 So to answer your question more briefly, no, I can't say for certain whether they were, this was explained to them on this specific property, but the applicant was familiar with it on a previous one. I don't know if Mr. Atkinson wants to add to that or not. Yes, please come back to the podium. We'll consider that a question for the applicant.
 My understanding of this case is that the six-month time period lapsed before the purchase of the property based on the fact that the only other attempted purchase of the property was for someone who intended to destroy the structure, to demolish it, and that's why
 Allie was able to purchase it is because of her assurances to the seller that her intent was preservation. And that six month gap is because no other buyer came forward in that time while the existing use was still happening. And I hope that has answered your question council member. Thank you, that does, I appreciate that. Any other questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this issue?
 Okay, I will bring it back to the City Council. This is on the third and final reading. So what I guess action or summation would the council like to make toward the end here? I think we've got a lot of information from the applicants that has helped me come to the conclusion that this is a matter of opportunity and trust. I think that we're moving forward or if we do move forward that we're going to have the opportunity to have a
 the reclamation of a residence that has historical significance in this neighborhood. And that I trust that they will do that. They already have a record of doing this. And so I can support this knowing that it's going to occur. So that's how I will support this. Thank you, Mark.
 Mr. Mayor, I've expressed the greatest hesitation, not reluctance or opposition, but I think that the preservation of this structure is of such significant value that it actually benefits the neighborhood for it to remain a living and used structure as opposed to remaining vacant at this time. Thank you. Okay. Any other final comments from the council?
 All right. What was the infield score on this one? Mayor, I believe it was a eight for this one, correct? I'll be sure of that. Okay. Seeing no final comments, Caravage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Williams?
 Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. All right, thank you all very much. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-008 located at 608 South Ray Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately 0.47 acres.
 from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units breaker now this one was left on the second reading as well i would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading with this one so moved second second we have a motion and second to go to the third and final week karen would you please call the roll jones yes opinion yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 in order to reason on that property described in a reasonably petition 22-008 located at 608 south ray avenue in ward 1 for approximately 0.47 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre jonathan
 thank you mayor i have no updates or changes on this item i did want to offer a reminder to council though that somewhat similar to the first item you heard tonight the applicant is requesting an amendment to the proposal the planning commission as they heard it was the applicant's request for neighborhood conservation
 The Commission felt that RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre was more appropriate given the setbacks that they saw on the east side of Ray in the area. The applicant's interest is still to pursue NC neighborhood conservation given the lot's width of 80 feet, which neighborhood conservation would allow them to split one time to build one additional house.
 So today, and the again, the Commission's recommendation is the RSF eight staff did support the applicants original request for neighborhood conservation. And today we've received one item of public comment, and that was at the planning commission meeting and it was in opposition to the request. And I'm happy to take any questions. So y'all.
 recommended the neighborhood conservation yes mayor and but the Planning Commission decided to go to all right RSF 8 yes so the ordinance says it's written is for RSF 8 if the council would like to entertain the applicants request they would need to amend it to NC okay but would the applicant like to speak before the council you have 10 minutes and then you all can decide
 Good evening. Good evening. Old business is better than new business last week or the week before last. Yes, I know exactly what you're saying. Yeah, I think when we spoke last, it seemed like most folks were favorable to going with the NC. I know that Ms. Theresa Turk said that she was going to go buy the property.
 I think she did. I showed slides before Jonathan pulled them up showing that the setbacks in that area where houses were from the street varied significantly from 20 something feet to 70, if I remember correctly.
 So I don't want to take up too much of your guys time rehash all that. I do think it's still compatible with the neighborhood. I think that, you know, street frontage is similar to a lot of other houses around. In addition, you know, if we went with the RSF 8, we would have to get a conditional use permit, go through some other hoops to get the house. And then the third thing was the tree preservation actually.
 Going with the neighborhood conservation would allow us to build the house, allow me to build the house closer to the street, which is away from the two large oak trees that are kind of in the middle of the lot. So I appreciate your guys' time. Thank you. Okay. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff?
 Mayor, I have a question for the applicant. Thank you. I did go by, drive by last week and down Ray and also down Dockery. So the reason why you're wanting neighborhood conservation is just for the setback? Is that the main hurdle for building the kind of house that you want to build?
 That is a great question. So I don't think that would help me to avoid getting into the oak tree canopy root system.
 The main reason is the street frontage. So right now there's a little over 40 feet of street frontage, which would allow, you know, neighborhood conservation rezone would allow someone to build a single family house there. And I think for RSF 8, the requirement is upwards of that. And so we would get the rezone and still not be able to build something. We'd have to go with like a,
 a tandem lot split. Jonathan knows more than I do about that. But it would just produce additional hurdles to go through. Some of the lots to the south have already been lot split, so there is a precedent for it.
 And I guess this question is for you, Jonathan. What is the tree preservation requirement for RSF8 and also for neighborhood conservation? They're both 20%. Thank you. Okay. I don't have any more questions. Thank you so much. Thanks. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Now, what's the council's wishes about?
 The applicant wishes to go from RSF8 to an NC, correct? So we'll have to have a motion and a second to do that, if you wish to do that. I move we amend to RSF8 from NC. That's what you want RSF8 from? No, he wants. I mean NC from RSF8, yes. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to change the zoning from RSF8 to NC. Yeah, neighborhood conservation. Okay, cool.
 All right, any discussion on that? Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Henyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. So the ordinance has now been amended, and it's now on its third and final reading. Well, I've got to take a little public comment, though, before we vote.
 we will take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broke um broken into three and two whole habits are hard to break five minute duration don't engage anyone public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that susan who do you have on zoom no one has raised their hand mayor is there anyone in the chamber like would like to uh
 You can, you're okay. You can go set it. Does anyone in the chamber like to speak to the council? Okay. See, now I'll bring it back to the council. This is on the third and final reading. Is there any final comments from the council? I think it seems reasonable when you look at this and understand how the owner wants to develop it.
 And I really to me it's respectful of the property the way that it is with the trees and The placement where he would like to put the structure. So I think it's appropriate I'll support it
 A quick comment. I just wanted to acknowledge we did receive some public comment, and the main things that were voiced were some crime and disruption of the potential wildlife on Mount Sequoia, and also considering that it's overdevelopment. So I guess my thoughts there, as we now understand, he's moving the structure forward,
 to preserve the trees. And so we're not talking about adding more structures. And in terms of the crime, it's kind of a little bit different issues. So we don't really want to bring that up. I mean, I think here, I think that's a, uh, we, we should talk about that definitely in our ward meeting and, and reach out to me, um, regarding that.
 But as far as the, you know, overcrowding, again, my understanding is that it's more about building to consider the canopies. So I think if another one came up and someone didn't bring that forward as a consideration, I probably wouldn't consider it because it is,
 a unique zoning in that neighborhood and we do want to consider the that side of the hillside because it's right there at the bottom of moscow so um so i appreciate the applicant considering that um those oak trees because that is actually helping storm water management to preserve those trees those big trees that's all i've got okay and you have a final comment from the council um jonathan did we get any public comment on this one
 there was a comment in opposition at the planning commission meeting i apologize council member harvey i hadn't seen that piece if that came through the clerk i appreciate you bringing that up it was very recent april 17th and it came through a laser fish okay so that came into you all right okay that's correct through the city clerk all right any anything else care which please call the row jones yes canyon yes
 we occur yes grogan yes yes her yes hertberg yes harvey yes all right thank you all very much moving on number four mayor i need to recuse from this item as i have a business yes yes the owner thank you mark
 All right, number four, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 22-006, located south of West Highway 112 for approximately 65.90 acres from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre, and High 1 Heavy Commercial Non-Industrial to N-12.
 NSG, Neighborhood Services General, CS Community Services, UT Urban Thoroughfare, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. Now, this one was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. So moved. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Excuse me. He recused. Yeah. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch.
 Yes. Clark? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-006 located south of west highway 112 for approximately 65.9 acres from r.a residential agricultural rsf 8 residential single family 8 units per acre and i1 heavy commercial and light industrial to nsg neighborhood services general cs community services u
 UT Urban Thoroughfare and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Similar to the last item, I don't have any updates or changes to this request. To date, the only public comment that staff has received were inquiries and the statement of support at the Planning Commission meeting itself. The Commission forwarded the request unanimously, recommending approval to the Council, and staff recommends in favor of it. And I'm available for questions, and I believe...
 The applicant, Jessica Hester, is available online as the applicant for the item. So you're saying you haven't had really any public comment in opposition to it? Yes, and only one piece in favor at the commission itself. All right. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. I am here. Sorry. We're waiting for the Zoom to connect.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Councilmembers. We are grateful to be able to present this to you. Again, I will remind you of just a few key points here. I'm Jessica Hester. I represent the Benedict family and their company, Biotech. I'm the architect and designer.
 As a reminder, Biotech is a veteran-owned small family business that was established almost 40 years ago. It is a certified clean manufacturing facility that produces health supplements, their primary product being vitamin D. Many of you were able to visit their facility during the site tour several weeks ago.
 Their company mission is that health equals energy. This vision is at the heart of this development. The singular vision for a development that promotes healthy living and environmental preservation with the kind of holistic approach that the Benedict family has with this site is a longstanding dream and the legacy of Dale Benedict, who recently turned 91.
 This project is his and his family's legacy, and the rezoning will allow this dream to move forward. Ultimately, they hope to provide space where the community can find healing experiences in a natural setting and therapeutic products and services that promote well-being.
 I understand that you can only vote on the rezoning of the property, not on the master plan or the vision for the development. But I hope that the context of those drawings is helpful in understanding the goals of this project and the goals of the family. They fully intend to develop this project on their own, keeping it as a family-owned contiguous property, which is why we have not pursued a PZD.
 And I am going to just quickly address Councilman Turk's question from the last meeting regarding Wilson Springs. I know there was some conversation about it at the agenda session, but just to clarify, the runoff of this property does flow south into Claver Creek, which does run through the Wilson Springs Preserve.
 The stream that collects this runoff is located on the west side of our property. If you're looking at our map, you'll see that we have a stream on the west side of the property. It does have a dedicated buffer through the stream side protections outlined by the city, which requires the development around it to maintain an approximately 50 foot clearance on either side of the stream.
 You'll also notice that our rezoning application transitions on the east side of the property from UT to the west side, it's a mix of CS and NSG, which by right is requiring a less dense
 development adjacent to the stream that was intentional, not just for the stream protections, but also in relationship to the adjacent neighborhoods and residential developments. Okay.
 THROUGHOUT THIS PROPERTY WE FULLY INTEND TO FOLLOW LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES AND METHODOLOGIES THAT ARE OUTLINED IN CHAPTER 179 OF THE FAYETTEVILLE CODE OF ORDINANCES AS WELL AS THE CRITERIA OUTLINED IN THE CITY'S DRAINAGE MANUAL INCLUDING THOSE NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN WATER QUALITY AS CLARIFIED IN CHAPTER 4. WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE WATER QUALITY ON THE SITE AND OF THE WATER EXITING THE SITE.
 And with the city's development standards in place, we believe we'll be able to achieve all water quality standards expected by the city. We see these water features as features. They're an asset to this development. And we will continue the best practices that the Benedict family has already been displaying across the property. Thank you.
 If you take a look at page 2 of the site tour document, you'll notice some calculations in relationship to the Highway 112 expansion. I know there have been several questions about this over the duration of our rezoning application. As a quick reminder, the Benedicts will be ceding approximately 11 acres to the state and the city for right-of-way and for the expansion of the highway.
 This expansion is disproportionately being shouldered by the Benedict family as a majority of this land acquisition is happening on the south and west sides of the highway, which is all Benedict property.
 As Jonathan mentioned, this application aligns with the future plan for the city and is supported by planning staff and received unanimous approval by the Planning Commission. Ultimately, we really want to bring health-focused development to life and meet the dreams of this family. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the Council have for the applicant or the staff on this?
 I have a question about a little bit of clarification on the 11 acres that are allowed for easement, I suppose, to the city. How did we come up with this side of the highway shouldering the 11 acres then?
 So the R DOT has some public plans available. If you dig, you can find their actual PDF pad drawings of their expansion plans. And so we overlaid their expansion plans onto our survey to come up with that 11 acres. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Those are not complete plans. I will just add, they are just, I think, I want to say they were at 70%, but I mean, they're far enough along. It's a lot of pages of information and details. Yeah.
 Okay, okay, thank you. John, did you have something you wanted to add to that? I did, Councilmember Bunch. If it wasn't clear from the applicant's response, it is not the city that's acquiring the right-of-way. That's right-of-way being acquired by RDoC for the 112 expansion and improvements. And if you're not familiar with the Department of Transportation's policies or standards for when they do improvement projects, they typically like to acquire right-of-way to the extent of their grading work, which means any slope work they're doing.
 And so in this particular instance, because they're going to the south and because there is quite a fair amount of slope immediately adjacent to the road there, they're going quite a ways into the property to get all the areas they're grading. I hope that helps. Thanks. Yes, it does. Thank you, Jonathan. Okay. Any other questions from the council? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom to speak on this item susan david criswell okay go ahead i called on him and then he just dropped off so maybe david criswell is coming back he did go ahead
 Hey guys, this is David Criswell. I live at 2437 West Honey Lane near the intersection of Dean Solomon and 112th. So just right across the street, right across from Dean Solomon from this property. You know, I think what makes a really enjoyable community and what makes a walkable and bikeable community is one where the amenities are relatively accessible to residences.
 And, you know, something that I appreciate about this proposed rezone is that not only does it provide that, but it does it very strategically in a way that restricts that zoning as it approaches our neighborhoods. It's hard to say what is truly compatible with the neighborhood, but, you know, whenever we start seeing UT on pages, we always imagine an Old Navy or a liquor store next to our house, and we're just,
 I'm encouraged by seeing the plans that the applicant has provided that we think would be a good destination for our family and our neighbors. And certainly have some input and thoughts as this process develops and advances to a site plan. But as far as the project and the rezone in particular, we just want to say we support it. So thanks. Thanks, guys. Okay. Who else would like to address this on Zoom?
 No one else mayor. Is there anyone in the chamber like to address this on this? Yes, please
 I'm not that tall, Mr. Mayor. I'm Steve Clark, I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville, Arkansas. We're here tonight to support this rezone application as well. I have studied Ms. Hester's plans. We are well aware of what the plans of the Arkansas Department of Transportation are for the development.
 of a four-lane road from there all the way into downtown beltonville mirror imaging about what we have on 265 on the east side of the city that same concept for transportation and moving people to and from we particularly like the effort being made by the applicant to make certain that the natural uses of the land remain natural
 and that there will be uses for housing and other purposes. We see that as important in the overall development of that area of the north end, uptown end of our city. So we strongly support it and hope the council will adopt it. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thanks, Steve. Who else would like to address this in the chamber? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the second reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 i move we go to the third reading second okay we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the row jones yes wedeker yes scroggins yes bunch yes turd yes herzberg yes harvey yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the reputation RZN 22-006, located south of West Highway 112, for approximately 65.9 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 8 Residential Single Family 8 units per acre, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial, to NSG Neighborhood Services
 General and CS community services UT urban thoroughfare and I won heavy commercial light industrial What final college do we have in the council on this one? Mr. Mayor? I appreciated the applicants thoroughness of the submittal for our consideration the amount of detail was greatly appreciated I also appreciate the dense and intense uses to the east and
 with less density and creating more open space as you move to the west and i think the community appreciates that as well and for those reasons i can see this as a valuable transition of pasture land into productive use thank you thank you any other final comments from the council all right care which please call the roll jones yes ledecker yes scroggin yes bunch
 Yes. Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's go to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-011, located at 3220 West Old Farmington Road in Ward 1 for approximately 20.40 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 8 units breaker to
 NC Neighborhood Conservation. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. So moved. Second? Second. Okay, well, we either have an echo or... We've got a lot of seconds. We have a lot of seconds, but we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. St. Louis? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-011 located at 3220 West Old Farmington Road in Ward 1 for approximately 20.4 acres from RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. No updates or changes to the request. Staff has not received any new public comments since the last public hearing before council. There have been several inquiries throughout the course of the project, but no clear statements of opposition or support. Again, similar to the last items, as a reminder, staff does support the request and the Planning Commission forwarded it unanimously recommending approval. I'm available for questions and I believe Brian Teague is here in person as the applicant for the item, Mayor. Thank you.
 Okay, Brian, would you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. At the last meeting, I presented the benefits that NC has to offer for development of the property and that generally it's going to enable us to develop the property more in accordance with the city's long range planning goals.
 I think the front setback that NC has to offer is going to enable us to bring the houses closer to the street and really create a
 a tighter streetscape, which is going to have a number of different benefits. One being it's just going to create more social opportunities for the residents. Other benefits being that narrower streetscape is going to slow down the vehicles traveling through the space, which is going to make it safer for pedestrians. Ultimately, it's going to make it more walkable.
 but it also provides an environmental benefit. That more compact street cross section is going to enable us to preserve more tree preservation on the edges of the property, on the wooded hillside next to Centennial Park and also enable us to
 Provide more streamside preservation North Fork of Farmington branch Being on the west side of the property so I would ask that If you approve the rezone this evening, I'm be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Thank you Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff on this from the council? Mayor I have a question for the applicants. I
 Hi. I was looking through the packet and there's a substantial portion that's on the hillside hilltop overlay. And there is, you know, you mentioned that it would allow you to leave the trees and that sort of thing. But are you going to build in part of the hilltop, hillside overlay or completely build around that? It's unclear to me because that's a question that we're going to have to ask.
 that kind of information is not included in our packet. Sure. Part of our plan is to build in portions of the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. The density that we're proposing to build there is significantly less of that that we are proposing on other portions of the property.
 And that's because you're allowed to, if it's NC, you're allowed to build with cluster housing. Is that accurate? Or, you know, I have concerns about the hillside hilltop overlay, obviously, because of soils and also slope. So, yeah, if you could expand that answer a little bit, I'd appreciate it. The, so, yeah.
 The cluster development use is allowed in either RSF8 or NC. Essentially what NC is going to enable us to do is to preserve more of that steeper slope, preserve more of the streamside areas on the west side of the property.
 I'd be happy to try to elaborate on that. I don't know if that answered the question. I would like to comment that the hillside hilltop overlay district was not designed for vent development. Instead, it requires certain kinds of development, more protections, less disturbance of the
 and things like that which are more protective of the hillside and hilltops, but not to prevent development there, and it cannot be viewed that way. If a zoning request is made and it includes that, you can't say, well, I'm not going to rezone anything on the hillside hilltop unless you want the city to buy that from the property owners. And we have a lot of hillside hilltop
 And I think that it would be pretty expensive for us to decide that we're not going to let anything be built there because that means the city is going to be buying all that land. So that is also a development sort of situation, not a zoning issue.
 Just like if you have to cut some trees down, that's a development issue if that's going to happen. What the number of trees that are going to be protected under our tree preservation plan, that is a development issue, not a zoning issue. So we need to stick to the real zoning considerations. There are many of them, but we need to back off of what are development issues
 and only concentrate on zoning considerations when you're considering a zoning. Thank you. Thank you, Kit. That's a good point. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. Okay.
 So what's the what discussion or what action would the council like take what discussion council like to have? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have motion second go to third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Lederkerk. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turd. Yes. Hertzberg.
 Harvey. Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 22-011, located at 3220 West Farmington Road in Ward 1 for approximately 20.4 acres, from RSF 8 residential single family, 8 units per acre, to NC neighborhood conservation. Jonathan, if you had any public comment on this.
 No, there were several inquiries leading up to the Planning Commission meeting, but again, no statements of opposition or support. Okay. I haven't seen anything as well. DeAndre, have you had any comments? None. Okay. Okay. So you all haven't heard anything. We haven't either. Okay. All right. What final comments would the council like to have? Mr. Mayor. Yes. I'm not.
 persuaded that changing the zone preserves more trees or more stream bank preservation, the number of dwellings remains the same, their square footage remains the same. That said, I find myself able to support this under the notion that by structures being able to be shifted forward towards the street, my hope is that larger shared courtyards are created
 for the cluster housing groups and that that shared space preserves trees internal to the clusters of homes. The final comment is that this is in a way a cautionary tale for Fayetteville. Normally cluster houses are in one cluster in a neighborhood and so we have 15 here.
 I think that's a grand experiment for Fayetteville, for us to find out if this is tenable, if this works, and this capital investor is willing to take that risk. So for that reason, I'm able to support this. My hope is that we do gain, well, we already have the assurance that there's no additional dwellings.
 or loss of dwellings by the zone change, and there's no loss of off-street parking spaces. And so for all of those reasons, I find this a reasonable zone change to approve. Thank you, sir. Thank you. What are the final comments that we have in the council? Okay, Kerridge, please call the roll. Jones. Yes. Inyan. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch.
 Yes. Tert? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay. Council, I want to apologize. I know a lot of you are sitting now in person. I'm so used to dealing with everybody on the screen popping up. I'll do a better job of looking to my right and left. Okay. Sorry. All right. Number six, a resolution to grant the appeal of the council member.
 Sonia Harvey, DeAndre Jones, and Mark Kenyon and approve an amendment to Conditional Use Permit CUP 19-6721 for Prairie Street Live located at 509 West Prairie Street. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. I did not want to presume or not presume that the council wants me to do my presentation again. I know it was delivered fairly late in the meeting two weeks ago. So if it would be helpful for me to cover it again to make it fresh, I can certainly do that and try and do it in an abridged manner. Otherwise, if it's clear in your mind, I can. Yes, it was relatively late when we got to that item with the council. I'd like to see the presentation again. I would. You would? Yeah. Okay. Jonathan, you're on. Thank you.
 In minutes. 10 minutes, all. All right. I think you all are familiar with the location, but if not, we are in south downtown. We're at the southeast corner of Gregg and Prairie. The eastern property line of the site abuts the Razorback Greenway or Frisco Trail, whichever you prefer to use at that location.
 As a bit of time background, the use of the property as Prairie Street Live, an outdoor music venue, began in 2019 when the property was rezoned from DG, downtown general, to MSC, Main Street Center. Soon after that approval, a request was made for a conditional use permit.
 for outdoor music. The Planning Commission granted that on a probationary basis of three months. You can see the allowances there. It was low volume music all week. They're allowed one large event and one large event during citywide activities like Roots Fest, Bikes, Blues, Barbecue. There was also a three strikes provision incorporated in there. If three citations were issued for noise violations, it could go back before the commission for reconsideration or revocation.
 After that three months, the venue showed it was a good actor, and the Planning Commission extended the conditional use permit for a full year. In 2021, the applicant returned after that year ended, asking to extend the permit indefinitely and for one hour of additional music on Friday and Saturday. The Planning Commission approved...
 It did approve it that way, I'm sorry. It did approve it as it's written there. It was appealed to the city council by a trio of council members at the behest of some concerned residents and the council amended the conditional use permit to eliminate the indefinite permit approval to one more year. So that brings us to today, why we're here.
 The applicant again approached the Planning Commission when their permit expired earlier this year in 2022 and asked that the permit be extended indefinitely. A big piece of that, and the applicant could speak to this more, was because they would like to start making some more robust improvements to the property, including some that may address noise concerns. And they were reluctant to do so without some sort of assurance that they could continue operating on the process on a consistent basis and not be subject to losing a permit within a year.
 Also, a part of that request was an additional hour of music on Thursdays to 10 p.m., whereas it was allowed until 9 p.m., amplified music to three days a week, and then a further additional day of music with citywide events, again, like Roots and Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue.
 Some of the issues discussed by the Planning Commission included some calls and complaints, so the calls and complaint history on the property. In 2020, there were 10 calls, of which eight were related to noise. More recently, in 2021, there were 25 calls, of which 12 were related to noise. Two citations were issued over the 2021 year, but not the three necessary to bring it back before the commission came.
 A big piece of the conversation at the Planning Commission, whether from the public or the applicant or the commissioners themselves, is that the use is ideal in a sense in this part of the city. It complements the Cultural Arts Corridor and the Ramble to have a live music venue, especially an outdoor one that anchors the south end of the Ramble.
 There was a substantial amount of public comment. There were some neighbors who were opposed to the extension of the permit, given some of the frustrations with noise. There were several people that also spoke in favor, finding it to not only be a great outlet during COVID where you could be outdoors, but also just an outdoor music venue in the city where those are otherwise becoming increasingly less available.
 Ultimately, the Planning Commission approved the permit indefinitely, as staff did support that. The existing hours of operations, however, were maintained, so they did not approve an additional hour of music on Thursday nights. The enforcement was changed from a three strikes rubric or whatever to something more based in ordinance, which is that if there's a conviction of a noise violation, that would be grounds for reconsideration.
 It was ultimately a vote of six to zero with one commissioner recusing. As far as the appeal goes, from what I've been able to discern from the applicant's request, it really does hinge on that one hour of additional music on Thursdays and that they have some significant capital outlay planned based on that one additional hour of music and the opportunity that represents.
 And with that, just as a reminder again, Council has three choices here. As Mr. Williams often says, you're sitting as the Planning Commission on this item. So when you hear a conditional use permit, you can affirm what's on the books or what the Commission already did. You can amend it in some manner or of course it could be revoked. It's the applicant's request that it be amended to allow an hour of additional music on Thursday nights.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. And I believe Ms. Lee, April Lee is here as the applicant for the item in person. Thank you. Would the council members that did the appeal, they have anything they want to add to what the staff said or before I bring the applicant up or? Well, I felt like it was necessary to sponsor this to have open discussion. There is a lot of cultural history in the music scene in Fayetteville
 And this is anchoring the south end. It's right on the border of Ward 2 and Board 1. So I felt like also there was this agreement to only ask for the extended hour, not the extended day. I thought that was an incredibly generous compromise. So I felt like it was certainly important to bring it forward. Okay. Thank you, Mark.
 So, do you or DeAndre have anything you want to add to that? Oh, no. Just a quick thing. Just thinking about that this is the Cultural Arts Corridor and we're moving closer to the completion of the corridor, the ramble. And so, we want to kind of go along with that spirit to have this kind of a gentle, you
 continual movement toward the full embracing of the creative economy in that area so so I just wanted to bring it forward again for discussion as well but also in support of of the creative economy so yes I felt that it's necessary
 to bring it forth for two reasons. Making sure that those individuals who have voiced concern, making sure that they are heard, but also ensuring or making it known how this is important to Fayetteville's growth and development and how the arts is very essential to that growth and development.
 Thank you, DeAndre. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mayor and Councilman. My name is April Lee and I'm the owner of Prairie Street Live. Thank you for hearing my appeal again. This evening, I would like to address three concerns, which is the hostility towards neighbors, the ticketed violations, and sound monitoring and mitigation.
 After the last Planning Commission meeting in February, an incident occurred outside. I was not a part of this, nor were any of the individuals involved employees of Prairie Street Live. They were passionate musicians and artists that feel very strongly about the existence of Prairie Street and what we're trying to accomplish. However, I would like to express my humble and sincere apology to all of you, Planning Commission, as well as the neighbors that were involved.
 This is not a representation of Prairie Street, and I do want to be a good neighbor. At the end of last year, I received two ticketed violations, and a lot of this was due to my inexperience in the music industry, allowing outside production to operate the sound, and having over a thousand patrons on site. I am incredibly embarrassed that I received these violations, but I learned a lot.
 Since then I've implemented policies stating that I will be monitoring the sound and the decibel reading, and if it's too loud, then I will let production know they will get one warning, and after that the electricity will be cut and the event will be over. Additionally, I would like to stress that I'm very serious about complying with the noise ordinance, and I'm working diligently on sound mitigation.
 We have installed sound absorbing curtains around the stage and pavilion area and I've started planting 150 hybrid willow trees that should create a natural sound barrier and be 12 to 20 feet tall this season. And I really want you guys to know that I am working hard and very diligently to comply with the noise ordinance and to install sound mitigation. And Prairie Street Live is the people's venue.
 It is the only park atmosphere with live music on the Greenway. We are pet friendly and we are welcoming to all. It's affordable to families and for those with a meager income. Fayville has a long history of supporting a broad range of music and I think many of you guys can remember the days of Zorro and the Blue Footballs, the Cape Brothers and many others.
 So I recently had the opportunity to sit down with Councilmember Kenyon, and he was telling me of great stories about Mike Sharkey's house parties on Dixon Street and how those tend to evolve into jam sessions. We have had similar occurrences at Prairie Street Live with musicians that have never seen each other joining together and making wonderful music, and this is really fun and neat to watch unfold.
 I hope you guys can see the value in our commitment to support and establish Fayetteville Sound and how this supports the creative arts and the cultural arts corridor. So what I'm primarily asking for tonight is one extra hour on Thursday, and I really need you guys to understand the importance of this extra hour. Thursday nights are typically functions affiliated with the University of Arkansas.
 These events are guaranteed private rental income and they are not dependent on ticket sales. If I don't get this extra hour, I will lose the University of Arkansas business. This is the foundation, the solid foundation of my business and my cash cow. At the same time, I do look forward to weekends booking local artists and larger musical acts.
 The additional income from ticket sales, concessions, and vendor fees is promoting the arts within the arts corridor in an unmet niche within Fayetteville. So I would really just like to reiterate that I am incredibly sorry for the hostility that was taken out on neighbors and the noise violations that I received. But I've learned a lot about sound mitigation in the last six months, and I have stricter contracts in place.
 so that I can comply with the noise ordinance. And regardless of your decision tonight, I will continue to monitor sound and I will continue to install sound mitigation. I really appreciate your time and I hope you guys grant me this extra hour. I'm available for comments or questions. Thank you. What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant?
 I don't have any questions, Mayor Jordan and Council. I would like to say I've had the pleasure of going down and attending one of the shows. And I echo what April has said. It's a great environment. And, of course, no environment is perfect. But I do believe that giving her...
 allowing this extra hour. I certainly think that, well, if we don't allow this extra hour, I feel like we will be holding her back and her group back from achieving optimal success. And so I certainly don't want to do that. And April, thank you so much for doing what you can to make the situation better. I think that we all know that there's no perfect solution. And
 Almost always there will be some individuals who will be disgruntled and I certainly don't want to make light of that but April has been proactive and she's done what she what she can and what she could do as it relates to addressing the Challenges that were before her so I am offering my support to Street life and I
 Just making sure that we are able to continue to help address any concerns and be of support to April and those citizens who have those challenges and concerns. Okay. Any other questions? Yes, Mayor, I have a question for the applicant. April, there's a question for you.
 Hi, thanks so much for coming forward tonight and acknowledging some of the issues that have happened. You mentioned that you'll be monitoring the sound. Can you describe how that's different than your than how you monitored it before? Are you using different equipment or taking extra readings or can you just describe how this process may change?
 Yeah, so it's twofold. Number one, I ordered a calibrated decibel reader, which I'm not sure the one that I had before kind of met the standards of the Fayetteville Police Department. I also had left the monitoring in somebody else's hands and at this point I am the one that's walking around and monitoring it and it's solely responsible, my responsibility.
 So will you be monitoring it like across the street or just within the purview of your area? I mean, because I am really concerned about the complaints that we've gotten from the neighbors. So I'm just trying to get a better handle on how we can prevent those kinds of problems in the near future or in any future. Sure. I understand that. So since last year, I
 So the Fayetteville Police Department takes the readings at the perimeter of the property and I have done that, but I have also gone so far as to walk 600 feet up West Street to the top of the hill where we apparently are a nuisance. And I've stood out in front and tried to take sound readings. It's kind of weird. I don't.
 You know, we tend to be in compliance right at the perimeter. And when I walk up the street, we're still in compliance. But I still think that somehow the noise is traveling straight up West Street. And, you know, I'm not sure if that's because of all of the trees and the shrubbery that was cut down on the south side of the property. And it's hitting and running up. But nonetheless, when I've gone up there this year, we have been well under noise.
 what's requested and required of us. Okay, thank you. I've got one more question. You mentioned that you're in the process of planting willow trees. How far along are you on that? And are you going to be able to finish planting all those trees real quickly? We fully expect to finish them this week. We've got at least
 I think over half of them in the ground. We planted them on the north side, which is where a lot of the complaints occur and that is also where it's residential and 60 dB. We've also planted them on the east side, which is 75 dB over there, but again, I feel like that is the area where the sound travels.
 Straight up West Street. So yes, we intend to get all those in the ground Otherwise, they're gonna die in the boxes Okay. Thank you so much for answering those questions. You're welcome. Okay What are the questions we had Mike your university clientele the university itself fraternities sororities other? Clubs, can you describe that all of the above all of you all of the above any other questions? Oh
 Okay. All right. Let's take some public comments. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Noah Mayer. Okay. Who would like to address this?
 in the chamber on this issue. Yes, please. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My first name is Charlie or Charles, last name Masoner, M-A-S-N-E-R. I live at 525 South School Avenue, Condo Unit Number 410.
 Mr. Kurth had a picture of where I live up on the screen a minute ago, if he wants to put that back up. But I'm just to the east of where Prairie Street Live is. I'm on the fourth and fifth floor of the Mill District building, which is in between the new Arcegas and the Woodstone Grill.
 The document that I've circulated to you today, it's my understanding that this was received by the Council back in February of 2021. I simply circulated again in case that didn't happen or to refresh memories. I'm not going to read the statement. If anyone has any questions about what's in the statement, obviously I'd be happy to respond to them.
 uh let me make me make clear what i'm not here to to speak against um i'm only here to talk about noise others can address issues of parking or other issues that's not my concern the property owners association at the mill district initially back in 2019 had submitted a written statement but most of that was taken up with parking concerns and very little addressed noise um
 The other thing I'm not opposed to is the existence of Prairie Street Live per se. What I am opposed to is loud, amplified concert-type outdoor music in a residential neighborhood. I bought Styrofoam and put it up in my windows. I've gone online and bought
 soundproof foam put on my windows. I used to be able to open my bedroom window on the fifth floor and look at Old Main and have the night breeze come in. I can't do it with Prairie Street Live without music.
 I'm not opposed to the movies they've shown over there in the summer, the receptions they've had. There are certain kinds of music they had. Dandelion Heart, that's a local group you may be familiar with, they played over there. Hasn't bothered me a bit. But when you get people up on that stage and you ramp up the bass and you blast it in my direction, my use and enjoyment of my home is gone for that period of time.
 I can't go into my bedroom and sleep, I have to go and try to get away from another room, I can't open my windows. So I've been opposed to this venue in that aspect since the beginning and nothing has changed. And I'm dubious that anything can be done to sufficiently mitigate that kind of noise, other than making the venue walled on all sides.
 i certainly don't think planting some trees is going to do it even if we wait for them to grow and do whatever they can do in the way of mitigation so um i'm as i said before i was opposed to the outdoor music type venue concert music nothing has changed so if it's going to be allowed to continue i don't want to see
 anything beyond what the planning folks have authorized. Other than that I don't have anything to say and I would be happy to respond to any questions. Thank you. Hi, Porter Winston, 946 North Lakeside Drive. So I'm
 I want to tell you what happened on Planning Commission the last time they were here. And, sorry, I'm usually on the other side. So it was a conditional use permit, requires five affirmative votes. We had six commissioners that night. If we didn't find something that we could all agree on, they would not be able to exist as of the next day. It was a completely existential situation.
 So what we ended up with was basically a lowest common denominator of keeping everything the same, the slight adjustment to actually sort of a harsher adjustment towards the number of violations that they would have that would trigger them coming back to Planning Commission. So...
 With that, we weren't really able to have a complete discussion about possibilities. It was much more of a count the votes, make sure that tomorrow they can still exist. The one thing that was unanimous was that we all agreed that Prairie Street Life should exist, that it is of value to the community, and that we wanted to give them another opportunity.
 And so that's pretty much how we got to where we are. The other thing I just wanted to say is that I think we all agreed that it is a good place for this kind of event space.
 that there's not some other place in the city that would be much better or something like that. That the fact that it is part of the mill district, the end of the cultural arts corridor
 and is in line with so many things that are happening down in that area that I think we agreed that this is a good spot for this type of event. It has problems with sound, with neighbors, and if they were allowed to exist
 If they were allowed to thrive just a little bit more, they might be able to have the wherewithal to make some of the changes that need to be made in order for them to be better neighbors. And so really, they've kind of been squelched this whole time by having to come back every year and see if they're going to be able to go another year by having very restricted hours. And under those conditions...
 they really have not been able to thrive. And so I think giving them simply one extra hour on Thursday makes all the difference. And part of that is as a music venue, there in the summertime, it's light until nine o'clock. Right? And part of the music experience is the lights. And so that doesn't even get to happen.
 you know, in the summertime. So I just would like, I'm very thankful that you've taken this up, that you brought it back to talk about it, so you can have a firm, complete discussion and decide what is best for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us in the chamber? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council?
 What comments do you want to make or what action would you like to take? Mr. Mayor, may I ask a question of staff? Sure, absolutely. This will be for Jonathan. Are the hours of operation the strict hours of operation or are those the hours of amplified music? Do you mean in terms of the noise ordinance itself?
 No, in terms of like Thursday at 9 or the other stop hours. Are those operational hard fast or amplification hard fast?
 The way the permit is written is that would be amplified music. They were approved for low volume music throughout the week. So I'm not certain the applicant may be able to answer whether they keep ambient music before or after those events. But the louder, if you will, or larger events or performances are limited by those hours. Yes. What else, Mr. Counsel? Do we need an amendment to make it just Thursday? Or is that seems like there's additional time.
 Like the additional day is not? The way we drafted the resolution is we basically said if you wanted to pass it, you would be granting the permit, the conditional use, but it would be subject to the following conditions or the change conditions. And so we didn't put the change conditions down because we didn't know what.
 Okay, that's what a council would like to do. That's what was confusing me. So we need to state this evening what the change conditions are. And what we've been asked to do is to extend the hours until Thursday at nine. And I would like to propose that we add that to the resolution if it's appropriate. Yeah, you would amend the resolution just to add that as a condition before we ever vote finally on the resolution. Before I get there, I have a question for the applicant.
 So the additional day is what I'm going to ask about. It was requested and it was granted in the previous conditions, right? Or was it not? No, it wasn't. You just asked for it to be considered? Correct. Okay. At this point, the conditional, I mean, the additional day is really,
 inconsequential compared to the one hour on Thursday. Okay, that's what I needed to know. Okay. I would like to amend the resolution to extend the operation or the music, the amplified music through 9 o'clock on Thursdays. Is that the appropriate amendment? Okay, is that what it is now or when it be to 10? 10, I'm sorry. So make it 10 p.m. then? Yes. Thank you.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend to 10 o'clock on Thursday. Is that correct? I'll be sure I got that right. Okay. All right, any discussion on the amendment from the council? Yes, I'd like to make some comments. You know, Jonathan went through kind of the history of...
 of Prairie Street Live. And every year they've been granted more and more days, more and more hours, but yet we still are having significant complaints.
 I don't think we should reward bad behavior. I appreciate the applicant for taking some responsibility and apologizing for that, but we've had a lot of complaints, and there's been two citations. And there possibly could have been more, because not always do the police have the noise meter right there in their car when there's a complaint filed.
 So I will not be supporting this amendment because I feel that what the Planning Commission decided was appropriate. And so I just thought I would share those thoughts. I have a quick question. Does the conviction of violation mean the citation or does it have to go to court? And how does that work?
 I think that's a question for Mr. Williams. Is that? How does somebody get back in if there's a violation? Yeah, if there was, instead of the three strikes per year, we have the conviction of violation clause, but how does that, what does that look like? Well, basically with any conditional use, you almost always conditions placed on it. That's why it's called a conditional use.
 If there is a concern that a condition has been violated, oftentimes the planning department will be notified of that by the person that thinks it is violated. It's really then up to the planning department to make an initial judgment about whether that's a credible sort of complaint, whether there's anything to support that.
 If they believe it is a credible complaint, then they can then bring it back to the Planning Commission and say that this is the complaint, and the Planning Commission can then decide to either say the condition was violated so significantly that they're going to revoke the conditional use.
 they could put new conditions on it or else they could say no we don't think that was a significant violation and a conditional use permit is going to be continued that would be a Planning Commission decision okay so the Planning Commission would be the ones to convict of the violation right
 That's right. Right now you're sitting as the Planning Commission, but if there's a violation of any of these conditions that is a substantial violation as determined by the Planning Department, then they would bring it to the Planning Commission itself, not back to you. Although, of course, it could be appealed again, but it would be brought back to the Planning Commission to reconsider the conditional use and whether or not it should be continued or modified. Okay.
 Okay, so do the citations from the police have any, like how does that get back to planning? I'm sorry, what? How do the police citations get back to planning? Okay.
 if i if i make comment mayor i think in the council member herzberg please correct me if i'm misunderstanding your question mr williams your question is based on the noise ordinance clause which says if the establishment or any band or any person operating in such establishment is convicted of violating the fable noise ordinance it goes to the planning commission effectively and i think council member herzberg's question is what constitutes being convicted of violating the noise ordinance would that be the citation would that be
 being taken to court for the citation? The conviction would actually have to be as the judge has decided. So there could be a citation issued, but that's not the end of the story. The city prosecutor then has to prosecute and it's up to the municipal judge then to determine whether or not the case was proven beyond original doubt. So it's a long process to get to an actual conviction. Okay, thank you. Thank you for the clarification.
 When I look at this, I'm going to think of it as a rational man, because I don't know all the legal stuff. I do now, thank you. But I think from a rationalization of what I would think is an element to be considered is the citation. And so from my rational point of view, and maybe others, maybe not, they had two violations, but they had three strikes, so they didn't get the third one. As
 was mentioned by the applicant, she took control after the two productions that were violated. She has instituted stricter controls by her, not a production company, because before it was the production company and she had contracted out her property. So I think that she has taken a step forward to make
 give her the control and a contract to stop the music if it's loud. From my point of view, she did have two violations. She stepped forward and there was not a third one.
 And so I'm giving kind of a rational man credit for taking control and not getting a third one. And in the future, if I'm reading this correctly, she only has one more. If it happens again, she's... Yeah, my understanding is that, and I don't even know why they talked about three strikes. In the first place, normally with conditional use, you violate a city ordinance like the noise ordinance or something else like that.
 That's good enough right there. And as you said, Mark, it doesn't have to be a conviction, not for conditional use or the planning commission to consider it,
 that's even stronger if it's actually gone to court and been found guilty, but that's not required to bring it back to the planning commission. It just has to be something that the planning department feels like is a substantial violation enough that they should present it to the planning commission. So what we have written into this resolution is subjective, kind of in a serious way as it would go back to the,
 planning staff to consider the seriousness of the situation it would not have to be a citation and so they're under the gun with this new resolution the way I look at it does anyone else have I mean am I right Jonathan
 well even if they see if they played beyond the time that's not a noise violation that's a violation of their conditional use well and i think that that would be here also right yeah right that that would so what i'm saying is right if they went overboard and whereas it was 10 30 they've lost their conditional use if if if it's so decided by the planning commission uh this is a pretty restricted uh resolution
 And I do think the applicant has earnestly accepted responsibility, made some corrections, and this is the last chance. You know, before it did say three strikes, and a rational man might think that was three citations. But now we, without any question, a violation could be decided, or the seriousness of it, by our planning staff.
 It could go to the Planning Commission and the Planning Commission could remove the conditional use at that time. So I am going to support this. And I do remember Mike Shirky's house parties. And April and I did talk about it one time. I think the City Council was down there on a tour on a cold day. So thank you for remembering that. And I want this opportunity with these very serious restrictions.
 I'm going to support it based on this the the tightness of the way that the conditional use could be revoked so I'm going to support it. Any other comments from the council? Well do we have a motion and a second somewhere in all of this? I move that we move forward on the resolution. I second.
 This is to pass the resolution as amended. Yes, as amended. Okay. We have a motion to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Mayor, I have one more comment. You know, we have constantly received letters from,
 from property owners that were there first before Prairie Street Live was there. I mean, that Mill District, we've been very proud of the Mill District supporting that area, its growth, the condos that are in the Mill Street District area. And the music goes straight toward the condo that was there before. That was a redevelopment project.
 We've had complaints from up the hill about noises. We've had an unfortunate interaction recently at the Planning Commission meeting between a neighbor and a supporter of Prairie Street Live. And I think we need to think about who got there first. You know, who invested their money in that location, and now they can't even open their window at night on some nights. Right.
 So we need to think about if that had happened right next door to us, I would be very unhappy. I'd be coming out here and saying, why are you allowing this?
 group to continue to exist when they've had lots of violations and lots of complaints. And every time that they come back, they get more and more nights and more and more hours. I love outdoor music. I absolutely love it. But we need to also be sensitive to our community and who were the people that were there that invested a lot of their livelihood before they had amplified music at night.
 So please think about those items too. Okay. Mayor and City Council, I want to echo what Councilmember Kenyon said and
 giving a second chance or I mean she, April has done what she could do as it relates to committing to making the necessary changes and I and and for me that speaks volumes. It also speaks volumes that we are creating again supporting the arts and so I'm going to as I mentioned before definitely support this and I'm hoping that
 that things will get better and we will be able to have an outcome that everyone can appreciate and enjoy. I just have a point of order. Did we take public comment? Yes, we did. Okay. I was just going to say.
 We didn't get anybody by Zoom and we got a couple in here. Okay. This gentleman. I'm short. I guess one last thought. I just, you know, I think, you know, a lot of the things that we deliberate here in city council is about the
 you know the current and the present and the future and so um and it's and it's a difficult situation um because we want to make everyone happy and it's tough and it's tough situation and i see the future of this area really to embrace the arts we want to be considerate of the neighbors and i appreciate mr major coming to talk to us and telling us about
 issues you're having with sound and you can't enjoy your view and that's not fun at all it's just not and um and i wouldn't like that myself and also this area is growing to be this cultural arts corridor so it's a weird balance of for us to think about how do we embrace that new you know forward direction and also balance it with where where we have been because i had a business in that
 building as well for about a year or two years. And so I'm very well aware of the space and how it is and how it works.
 But I feel like for the, to going future and kind of where we're going, and we did get the vote of the public. The public voted for the culture arts corridor. And so that kind of also for me affirms, this kind of general, this general direction. Now it doesn't affirm breaking noise ordinance whatsoever. And I feel that April's really trying to step up to say, look, I'm taking full control and responsibility, and I don't want that to happen again.
 So, you know, we're trying to find a balance. I appreciate you being here, but I'm going to have to support it for the as we looking going toward the future for this one one extra hour.
 No, not unless council member brings you up. You're welcome to respond if unless anybody else. No, no. Okay. Yes. Thank you. Yeah, come on up. As I said earlier, I voted for the arts corridor. I didn't say that earlier, but I'm saying it now. I'm not opposed to the arts corridor.
 I'm opposed to loud music, which denies me the use and enjoyment of my property. I just got my tax bill, it's $3,000 and some dollars. I didn't see any deduction on there for the times that I'm not able to use the property the way I should be. I don't understand the reasoning that says that those of us who purchase property in the area, who live there in our homes,
 are supposed to be denied the use and enjoyment of it for some amount of time in order to further the arts corridor the arts corridor can exist and grow and be happy without a concert venue of loud music right out the back door of people who live there um so uh and why wasn't
 When Prairie Street Live was conceived, why wasn't it built into the program that they would put noise mitigation in? And I haven't heard, I haven't seen any expertise that says there's noise mitigation that can work. What an appropriate way to be perceived. Consult with sound engineers. Can we mitigate the noise? If so, how is it going to be done? What do we need to construct? How long will it take? How much will it cost?
 and then present that to city leadership. They can examine it and have their own experts look at it. The idea that Ms. Lee is going to control the noise now because she's got her hand on the plug, can you imagine you've got a whole group of people in your backyard, loud music, people have had a lot to drink, and she's going to pull the plug and the noise gets too loud?
 Assuming she does that, how happy, I mean, there you've created another problem. So you can tell that there's no way I'm going to be persuaded that this was a good idea. I don't think it's a good idea. But that's all I have to say. I appreciate you giving me the opportunity to come up and respond. Thank you. Thanks for coming to speak. What are the discussions the council would like to have before we vote? Mr. Mayor? Mr. Mayor?
 This is Sarah over here. You know, this is something, I mean, I know this area is growing down there and I'm thinking of all the things that have been added since those mill condos were put in. You know, there's a lot there.
 that has been changing in that area. You know we've got that whole the whole prairie tap whatever that bar is there there's that there's Walgreens there's
 You know, the neighborhood market, there's what's going in across the street where the old co-op used to be. And there's lots of housing down there now. Now, I've talked to several people that actually live right across the street in the housing across the street from Prairie Street Live.
 And, you know, surprisingly, they don't have a whole lot of complaints against it. I was really, you know, really surprised at that because they're, you know, they're right across from it. This is something that is challenging because I want to support the arts.
 But, you know, I do also feel that people have the right to enjoy their homes. And this is a challenging area because it's growing. But it's also because of the way that it's growing. It's growing with mixed use. It's not all housing. It's not all commercial. It's a little of everything now. But I do kind of, I'm going to support this because I think
 I'm going to reiterate what Council Member Kenyon said. I believe that we have enough security with that conditional use permit that it's tied up enough there. But it's something that's really challenging, and I think we're going to come up against stuff like this in other parts of town, too. But that's all I have to add. Thank you. Mayor? Mayor?
 I think those of us that have lived around here for a while remember a lot about the noise ordinance development that involved Georges. And, of course, they did have sound mitigation. But this type of growth and this type of concern with the neighbors down there was the same thing. And somehow we grew into it and we controlled it. And I'm hoping that's what will happen in this area, too, because I do see this as a more...
 I don't know. I don't want to use the word bohemian if that's offensive, but it kind of is in the arts area down there, at least in my mind. And I hope that we can allow that. But I also hope that there is, and I really know with the way it's written, one violation, one conviction, one whatever, and they're closed down. So anyone that's owning a business would take that pretty darn seriously. Yeah.
 I'm going to still support it and I do support the neighbors. I myself live on the edge of the University of Arkansas right behind the sorority house. That sorority house expanded since I moved there and it's a lot more traffic and a lot louder. But still it's no surprise that we have change in our city and I'm, I had to understand that that change was inevitable. Did I like the more noise? Did I like the more traffic?
 I became used to it and I accepted it because that's what it was. And if we're going to have a vibrant urban area, and that's what I think is happening in the Prairie Street area, then there's going to be a lot more vibrant activity. And if you've ever lived in an urban area, I think that you would know what I mean. It's just not a suburb with a neighborhood or an old neighborhood that you
 you know, was on a shady street that was very secluded from the hubbub of the activity in the old downtown Fayetteville. So anyway, I just wanted to mention that I go on so, but I think that that's the way I have to look at it. I have one more comment, kind of in response to my colleague
 councilmember kenyon and uh and maybe uh to clarify something that councilmember harvey said um jonathan is prairie street live in the cultural arts corridor or or not or in the entertainment district is maybe what i really should clarify that's a good question when you say the entertainment district do you mean like the outdoor refreshment area is that what you're referring to i'm sorry i guess i'm referring to where the noise ordinances change
 Oh, yes. Thank you for the clarification. Our noise ordinance is not specific to certain regions of the city. It's tied to zoning districts and their uses in the broadest of terms. It's tied to residential uses and commercial uses and industrial uses. There is language in our outdoor music ordinance that specifies that the city should encourage outdoor music in areas near Dixon. I think it's between...
 Arkansas, maybe in block, I forget the exact dimensions between it, but that's the closest to it. Otherwise, the noise ordinance is blind to what your address is. It's all about your use of your property and the surrounding properties.
 Thank you for clarifying that. And how did we solve the Georges challenge? Wasn't Georges required to actually encapsulate and put a roof on there? Is that wasn't that the solution to many of the complaints that occurred around Dixon Street? Yeah, that's where the noise ordinance actually was first enacted. It was a real struggle.
 George has built a very tall block wall that basically contained the music. It would still go up, but it really didn't bother most of the neighbors anymore. That was an expensive thing to do. I thought it was a good solution. I was very disappointed when they decided to do the ultimate solution, then cover it over with a roof.
 so it no longer was the Georgia's beer garden. And not only that, but then the band started playing much louder, louder than what I liked, and so I basically stopped going. I loved it when it was the beer garden, and I didn't like it so much when my ears rang after every time I went there. It's a very difficult situation. You should not think that the noise ordinance will solve outdoor music problems. That's why it's conditional use.
 And one of the most important things on a conditional use is limiting the amount of time so that when you have a neighbor, they know when the music is going to stop.
 And I think you need to continue that kind of limitation for the amplified music, no matter where it is, so that even though the neighbors might be bothered by it, they at least know, well, at 10, it's going to stop on Thursday. And it's later for Friday and Saturday, but at least they know it's going to stop.
 And I would certainly encourage the proprietor of the Prairie Street Live to make sure that they do not violate the noise, I mean the time limits. Because noise ordinance itself is not enough. I mean, the noise ordinance allows enough noise that if you're trying to go to sleep, you very well might not be able to. So I think the time limitation is very important and you should be very careful about continuing to extend that.
 I have another point regarding the entertainment district since Ward 2 is where what we consider the entertainment district is located and you might remember the Dixon Street Merchants Association they're very protective of the entertainment area there. Well, I've met with the leadership there because it doesn't seem like they're active anymore and there's a reason.
 They now are known as the Downtown Fayetteville Coalition, and it's expanded to the square and all the way down to Prairie Street at the end of the corridor. So there is a recognition with the unification of businesses rather than the segregation like we used to have that this area needs unified support in order to grow businesses.
 the future so if we don't have a designated entertainment district except for our alcohol thing and so from a business point of view there has been a shift in the paradigm on what is our entertainment district and this is no by no means a legal
 designation but it is a recognition of a very tight group of people that have been active in protecting the entertainment area on Dixon Street to encompass a larger area so I just wanted to mention that. Mr. Mayor I actually came here open-minded for actually proposing revocation but based on the sincerity of Miss Lee this evening
 i have changed my mind and believe in the earnestness of her efforts and and while i have concerns about amending the cup which was supported by staff and the planning commission i certainly want to acknowledge that it was actually her demeanor and her maturity in her presentation this evening that has uh
 was not wasted on me. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yes, Holly. Oh, I thought you had some questions or comments. We're down to the final comments. On Saturday night, how late can they go again? Sorry, just one moment. The applicant may be able to rattle it off faster than I can. I believe it's 11. Yes, thank you. 11 o'clock. Okay, okay, okay. Hang on. Yes, she's correct. Friday and Saturday to 11. Right. Okay.
 I was just double checking. They have an event this weekend, and it's supposedly one hellish night, doomsday at Prairie Street Live. So I was double checking the time. Thank you. Any other final comments? Everybody good? Okie dokie. Kara, would you please call them up? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No.
 No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Is that passed 5-3? That passed 5-3. Okay. All right. Let's move on to new business.
 all right number one a resolution to award bid number 22-35 and authorized contract with flint coal llc in in the amount of two million three hundred ninety eight thousand nine hundred ninety one dollars 26 cents for the construction of razorback road from the university's administration services building to hot strive to approve project tendency in the amount of 100 000 dollars
 and to approve a budget adjustment to recognize revenue in the amount of 1 million 372 516 dollars from the university of arkansas and 334 thousand fifty five dollars in federal aid funding and to move 798 421 dollars from the water and sewer impact fee funds to the project all right chris
 Thank you mayor. First a little bit about the project itself.
 The project is on Razorback Road beginning just south of Center Street to Hotz Drive. It's the improvements along the west side of the road. It will include widening to four lanes of the road. So there will be four lanes there. Include a six-foot sidewalk, which will complete the sidewalk connection on the west side of Razorback.
 11 pedestrian lights and 31 trees in the green space of the street. So just a little bit on the on the street, the project itself, what will be entailed in the construction. The total cost is total project cost is 2.5 billion, 2.4 of that for construction and $100,000 of contingency. The funding, as you mentioned, is federal aid. $334,000.
 And then $1.38 million from the University of Arkansas. This is essentially a university project. The city is the contracting agency just because of the federal aid funding and the way this made it easier to proceed with the project. We also have a, we bid a portion of sewer work, $792,000 for sewer work.
 I do also want to say that sewer work is still being evaluated as to whether we want to do all or part of that and We'll be we'll be making that decision. But this is a time-sensitive project because of the Timing to get this done during the summer months and before football season. So we do request approval of this project tonight and I can answer any questions and
 WHAT QUESTIONS DOES THE COUNCIL HAVE FOR CHRIS? OKAY. LET'S TAKE SOME PUBLIC COMMENT. EVERYBODY GETS ONE TURN TO SPEAK. YOU HAVE A FIVE-MINUTE DURATION. DON'T ENGAGE ANYONE IN THE PUBLIC OR ANY COUNCIL MEMBERS. STAY ON TOPIC. PLEASE GIVE US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS. THOSE PARTICIPATING BY ZOOM ARE ALLOWED TO SPEAK FIRST AND THOSE PRESENT IN THE CHAMBER WILL SPEAK AFTER THAT. NEVER MIND. JACK, YOU GOT ANYBODY? OKEE DOKE. OKAY. THANK YOU.
 Well, seeing we don't have anyone at all, I will bring it back to the council. What questions does the council have or anything? Well, this is a resolution. Move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second pass the resolution. Is there any final comments from the council? Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chris, you did say you wanted to move it along. I might have moved it a tad fast, but anyway, I need to have all the parts to the...
 All the pieces to the parts of the puzzle here. But anyway, sorry, Susan. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22 days 012 located at 1893 and 1909 North Stephen Carr Boulevard in Ward 2 for approximately 3.5 acres from RA residential agricultural to CS community services kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zoning classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agriculture to C.S. Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. As was noted, this property is indeed in Ward 2. We are in northwest Fayetteville, just a little way south of the interchange between Interstate 49 and Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard. It's just north of Hill City Church. If you're familiar with the property, you can see it on the aerial here immediately to the south.
 and due west of the new police department headquarters that is currently under construction. The property includes a pair of parcels with a house built on each and some associated outbuildings.
 the request before council tonight is to rezone the property from ra residential agricultural to cs community services while this may appear initially to be a fairly sizable change in zoning entitlement staff finds that it is fully compatible with surrounding land uses given its location immediately adjacent to an interchange
 And also near housing, the land use allowances in the CS zoning district, which include housing of all sorts and non-residential uses that complement housing, makes this a very appropriate location and staff size for this rezoning request.
 Additionally, and it is worth noting on this map here, you can see where the council had similar consideration about three years ago in 2019, the property immediately to the north was rezoned to community services as well. Similar to land use compatibility, staff found the request to be fully consistent with our long range land use plans. They've taken the future land use map first, the property is designated as residential neighborhood area.
 While the name suggests that this may just be appropriate for residential uses, which again, CES allows, the residential neighborhood area designation also indicates that it is appropriate for non-residential uses where it's on a prominent corridor or near an intersection, which this location immediately, again, adjacent to one of the city's interchanges makes it appropriate from SAF's perspective in that regard.
 And looking at it through the lens of city plan 2040, we found this to speak to just about every one of our major goals. We're injecting the allowance for housing. This is a much more central location in the city than it is peripheral. It doesn't fall within the enduring green network. There are no hydric soils. There's no floodplain on the property.
 And we also feel it's an appropriate infill location, which can be seen with some of the amenities associated with it, which vary from 4 to 7 on the property, 4 adjacent to the interchange, perhaps unsurprisingly, and 7 along Stephen Carr to the east.
 Staff did not find any additional concerns or issues worth bringing to your attention. We feel this is a very appropriate and sensible request. We've not received any public comment to date other than what was sent to council last Friday from the property owners to the north and south, respectively, who both expressed their support for the proposal.
 Accordingly, and unsurprisingly, I'm sure staff is in support of the request. Given my comments, the planning commission felt similarly and forwarded it to the council recommending approval by unanimous eight to zero vote. Their discussion was fairly brief and largely centered on the comments that this was simply an appropriate request for this property and the location.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any comments. Seth Mims is here as the applicant for the item. And Mayor, I do have a presentation of his available if you'd like to make it. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, council members. I'd like to thank you both for the opportunity to present today. I'd also like to thank Mr. Jack Dennis for being my impromptu assistant this evening. Appreciate your patience as we roll through these slides, Jack. Are we ready?
 So, what we're asking for you tonight is an approval for an updated zoning that is in step with surrounding properties. The property's current agricultural zoning dates back to when it was not on an interstate, much less on a major connection to West Fayetteville. Next slide, Jack. So this property actually has 533 linear feet of frontage on Interstate 49.
 Next slide. Interstate 49 carries, according to the Arkansas Department of Transportation, 73,000 to 82,000 cars per day over the intersection at exit 65, Porter Road, Stephen Carr Boulevard. Next slide, please. Moving from residential agricultural to community services encourages transit-oriented development.
 And this property really lends itself to transit-oriented development in that there's a bus stop just .19 miles away, less than a quarter mile walk. It also, you know, speaking of transit-oriented development, it's getting a new trail connection. I mean, it's currently on... Next slide, please, Jack. Okay.
 It's currently on the Meadow Valley Trail, as you know, but we're about to get a new 12-foot wide trail. The proposed midtown corridor improvements will connect this site all the way to the Razorback Greenway with multiple enhanced crosswalks. So it's going to become very, very conducive to alternate types of transportation. Next slide, please, Jack.
 So the city has invested heavily in upgraded infrastructure in this area important trail linkage new sidewalks even a roundabout The city is currently widening Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard to three lanes with sidewalks on both sides Next slide check the city is also making a nearly 37 million dollar investment in its new police station and headquarters so I believe it would behoove us to unlock the potential next door and
 Next slide please. And updated zoning is actually supported by our adjacent neighbors. Next slide. Oh, let's stay there. Sorry. Go back one. There you go. There's a neighbor from a letter from the neighbor to the south. I won't read it to you, but if you read it you'll see that they're very much in support of our request. Next slide please, Mr. Dennis.
 There we have a letter from the neighbors to the north expressing the same support for our request. Next slide, please. Our neighbors to the east of the new police station and headquarters
 did not express any concerns when they discussed this item with planning during planning staff's due diligence exercises. So I think it's safe to say on the west side I-49, no complaint with our rezoning request. So we seem to be surrounded by support.
 Next slide please. This is a letter from the property owners just kind of expressing their frustration at what has been happening of late. Next slide, please. It has become a dump site. Unfortunately, the property is in very ill state. It has become a dump site for lots of individuals. Next slide. Used tires, construction materials, old appliances, and
 Next slide. It's really in its current state, it's not doing what it could be doing for our community. Next slide, Jack. So to wrap it up and be as brief as possible,
 I just say that it's really no longer practical for this property to support the uses of residential agricultural zoning and it has become an eyesore and has attracted dumping and the owners had a hard time keeping up with. So as we watch this property languish, I respectfully request that you guys would designate this property with the zoning of community services.
 to allow users that will serve both the immediate neighborhood, but even more importantly, our growing west side of Fayetteville. With that, I'll sit down and be ready to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thanks, sir. All right. What questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. Who do we have in the chamber who would like to address this? Alexandra Brown, 3658 Mountain View Drive, Fort Boer.
 I just want to acknowledge that it's a special privilege to be able to give public comment, and I think that's important to say in our ever-changing world. I'm here on behalf of my father and friends that reside on Valley Drive, Porter Road, Megan Drive, Hatfield, Hawley, and parts of Weddington. The housing crisis was mentioned earlier, and we are experiencing a kind of housing crisis today.
 down the street from this property and I can appreciate the city attorney's directive to not conflate rezoning concerns with the development process but I hope to highlight an example of when rezoning gets expedited or is hastily approved that it can compromise the development process towards the end of my comments.
 This project has a significant plot of permeable surface that will presumably transition into a big slab of concrete or impervious area. So all that water that can be soaked into the earth is going to come down harder and faster to us down the street. Anytime there's a significant...
 impervious area placed in rain gauge seven there should be special attention to the waterways so I'm here to actually request that City Council table this rezoning request and
 because the waterways surrounding Hamstring Creek which the water will run into is unhealthy, it's clogged. You drive south on I-49 you can see a big stagnation of water on both sides of I-49 actually. After corresponding with the floodplain administrator over the past few months there was
 I hope that there could be one more improvement to that area on I-49, but the latest is that there's a private property owner with beavers.
 Our destiny is tied up with what the Beavers are going to do and this is deeply unsatisfying And I hope that you can empathize with how unsatisfying that might be I don't know if we've actually contacted the private property owners So yeah, just to remind everybody on the road just on one road we have a retired postal worker
 In VET we have my neighbor to the right of my father's. He hung electric lines for 40 years. Gail across the street was a supervisor at Superior Foods. We've got Barbara up the street that worked as a secretary for the University of Arkansas. To the left of my father is a new family from up north. They have two small toddlers and a new baby on the way.
 So I took a stroll down Hamstring Creek on east of I-49, and I went to go see if I could see any of the remnants of beavers. And it's not so much beavers as it is just this garbage. Down by those West End apartments that run along Hamstring Creek, there's actually tents.
 and a mattress and sleeping bags and just a lot of garbage that's being disposed in that creek and that creek is swelling and in order to eliminate me from having to come I streamed the Planning Commission video in hopes that I would hear terms like rain gauge runoff, peak flow but not a whisper of these items and
 We hear a lot about compatibility, the lofty goals of 2040, walkability, but zero nuance on anticipated adverse impacts. That area, that community that I'm speaking of, went through the 2018 flood where they got the most rain according to the study that's available online. To expedite rezoning requests like this without
 lingering or hovering on this topic is incongruent with the climate resolution that you all signed in November of last year. Hereby request Mayor Jordan direct appropriate staff to analyze environmental considerations, low-income and minority population vulnerability to climate change. We've experienced more rain due to climate change. But there's been large-scale developments that
 Thank you. Have come through. Thank you. Thank you. I should note that drainage, and I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the Council.
 Advising them the drainage is a obviously a development issue Handled during development and as you all know you passed a recent change to our drainage code making it even more Protective, but I would also ask Chris Brown maybe to further explain Whether or not there's going to be an increased flow age out of the out of this land when it's developed or whatever our regulations require and
 I'm not sure Chris Brown is still here since he's I okay. Let's take some more public comment I'm here if you if you'd like for me to take that Okay, go ahead Chris. So yeah, it's a it's typical development requirements there are water quality requirements channel protection downstream and then Flooding events that are required to be mitigated all the all the the the
 standard requirements will be in place for water quality detention, etc. Each project is looked at on a case by case basis. The developer would have to do a drainage study, demonstrate that they're not increasing flows downstream or causing other issues. And that would again be part of the development review and be based on the intensity of development in the impervious area.
 Is it in our ordinance too, Chris, that the post flooding will not be worse than the pre flooding? Right, yeah, that's the downstream flooding element. But again, there are water quality protections and protections for downstream channels to protect them from erosion and all that sort of thing as well. And my major point was that this is really a development issue. It's not a zoning issue.
 So I would hope that you would stick to the zoning issues when you're considering a rezoning request. No, no, no. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. Everybody gets one turn at the mic unless the council member brings you back. I would like to have her respond if that's okay with everybody. That will be fine. So to relate it to the climate resolution that seems to not be detected in the planning process,
 Analyzing possible climate injustice means considering part of the past and that was hopefully what I could bring up as far as it relates to this community. I still have not gotten an answer as to why a large-scale development, for example, across church
 does not have a retention pond. And so when trying to extract if it's a zoning issue or if it's a development issue, I kind of got two contradictory streams of thought when talking to city staff. I was told that if you want the developer achieves the zoning request.
 they only have to stick to the minimum standards that are within that zoning requirement. And so that resulted in a zero retention pond for a structure that's 500,000 square feet of impervious area next to another structure that's almost 300,000 square feet of impervious area. And no one has dispelled the connection of flooding issues for that community with that project. It actually
 Cross Church actually creates a cringe effect with city staff. They don't want to talk about it. So, I just think that there should just be a special consideration of the waterways, get them healthy and flowing before we rezone large-scale development, such as this project off Stephen Carr. And I think that was all I have to say. Oh yeah,
 I would also like to bring up that the Omni Center grant, if we're going to zip through the zoning requests, that maybe city council considers a resolution to make funds available to climate refugees that are Fayettevillians because
 If it kind of continues on this rate without checking to see if the waterways are healthy, where there are known flood problems, then that might be a consideration for city council at a later point. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Thank you. My name is Cindy Gross. I live at 2647 West Megan Drive in Fayetteville. Hamstring Creek is right behind me.
 and my property is flooded many times, the crawl space, and I am very concerned about the creek. It's not flowing right now, and it hasn't been for a while. And I was aware of the beaver dams this time last year probably, and they're not on my property, so I can't do anything about them. But I'd appreciate it if you would...
 consider this and consider the the problems that the neighborhood has had the cul-de-sac has flooded countless times and residents can't get in there out of their driveways it's been a problem so I appreciate you listening thank you thank you who else would like to address this okay
 I will bring this back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion would you like to have or what action would you all like to take? This is Lorde, too. Yeah, I have a comment for most Miss Brown, and I did get Miss Cindy's last name, but...
 on the horizon and I know it's not fast enough. You know, we're looking at a stormwater utility and so we know we have backlog of stormwater issues and the ordinance that we recently amended to make sure we don't create more water flow and basically, I forget how it's phrased, but essentially the water that comes on that property has to stay on the property. It can't affect more other property.
 And that's how we rewrote this new, the latest ordinance that didn't apply to the Hill Church or the, I mean, the properties you mentioned, the two that you mentioned. So that's possible, some cringe effect of why. All right. So we should have had that. We should have had a stormwater utility. We should have had a stronger ordinance. Yes.
 Now going forward, we will, we didn't do it, we need to do better. And so we're working on doing better. We really realize it, especially because of climate change. And so we want to stay in contact with you guys to make sure that your property gets continued to be clean.
 safe and not flooded from the development. But we're, so what I'm saying is that we're very widely aware and we're working on it. And so I guess with that said, I just want you to, to know the other issues in terms of the, the creek being flooded or dirty. That's kind of another issue. We need to address that in a cleanup or something. And then also the,
 you know, the impact to the lower income neighbors. I mean, that's very close to my heart. So we want to make sure that we're wildly aware of that. And I hope that Mr. Mims is all ears about this and knowing that he's considering this. But hopefully now our codes help to protect that. And whether it's Mr. Mims or any person, because the development will continue to probably happen in Fayetteville, especially as it's next to 49%.
 But we needed it to be
 considerate of all the people that live in that area so I just want you to know that and I'm on that committee the stormwater utility committee we're getting things rolling so we're gonna work on some things I don't know where that is in the priority but we could ask Jonathan or Chris and see I don't know where it's high on the list it's in the it's at the council level right now there you go so we're getting there
 I don't think I have anything else. I've got a question for staff. Which way? Sloan, you froze up on us. You're frozen, Sloan. So Sloan, maybe if you cut your video, we could hear your audio, but you're frozen. Okay, you're all able to hear me now? Yes. Yeah, we don't need to see my face anyway. So which direction does this drain, north or south?
 There is a high point on the northernmost house on the property, which kind of represents where it breaks, either flowing to the north or to the south. But the majority of the property does flow towards the south to a tributary of Hamestring Creek, so it doesn't go directly to Hamestring. But that tributary connects with Hamestring just west of Interstate 49. Okay.
 Okay. Yeah, I don't think we should burden this individual land with fixing Hamstring Creek. We should just fix Hamstring Creek, regardless of what's happening here. And I hope that we look at that. There are enough questions that I don't think we should vote on it today. Hopefully, we can look at those that were presented today.
 by the citizen. I know the police said that they don't have any issues. I assume that's a traffic study. I kind of want to ask the police chief or a representative, are they okay with this being located right next to the police station? Because I assume that what they filled out has certain metrics that have to do with traffic. And then I want to know, you know, for the actual police station.
 I'm Captain Brad from here for Chief Mike Reynolds. And we had no objection to this rezoning request. We're happy to be neighbors with anyone. All right. I checked with them before. Awesome. I appreciate that. I will probably ultimately vote for this. I don't see a reason not to. I think we do need to get citizens questions answered. So I'm okay that, you know, we wait until the next meeting to vote on this and not move it forward. Um,
 There is just, we're talking about climate change. The evidence that if you put people in high density, they're per capita carbon and just pollution and other issues. I mean, it's insane. If you double the density, you almost half the per person pollution that they produce. So if we wanna talk about long-term,
 environmental issues, it's usually in higher density, but you have to do it responsibly, which we would look a lot closer at at the developmental stage. But I agree, Hamstring Creek needs work irregardless of what happens tonight. What other discussion or action or? Mr. Mayor, I want to thank the residents for coming out and it's always a,
 really it's a privilege when such articulate people express concerns. Your concerns are clearly valid in the sense that I believe we're looking at a FEMA flood plane both north and south of this property and nothing this property does is going to amend or alter the FEMA flood planes that already exist. In my way of thinking, this is going to sound bizarre, but a larger development versus a smaller development when in some
 actually be advantageous to the neighbors in the sense that once you are constructing 10,000 square feet or more, the most stringent stormwater runoff requirements are triggered Mr. Mayor, and therefore greater retention on site, greater mitigation of any other hazards. And so I believe that it's possible that the property could be responsibly developed.
 in no way will it be able to undo the existing flood hazards that are already there. And neither are they responsible for undoing those. They simply can't exacerbate or
 increase the flood hazard to the neighbors. So I want to say that the concerns you express are perfectly valid and we'll be attempting to balance the rights of those surrounding it with the rights of the property owner to develop it responsibly. So thank you all for coming out tonight. Okay, what other discussion do we have? Okay, so y'all wanna hold it here and pick it up in two weeks. Is that what I'm hearing from the council?
 Yes, that would be my wish. Okay. Well, let's move on to number three then. An ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 22-013 located northeast of South School Avenue and West 22nd Street in Ward 1 for approximately 1.35 acres from C2 Ferrofair Commercial to CS Community Services. Kip?
 be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from c2 thoroughfare commercial to cs community services section two that the city council of city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay
 Thank you, Mayor. Allow me a moment for my presentation. Sorry. There we go. Apologies. Thank you. This property is in South Fayetteville. It's well into Ward 1 on South School Avenue. Most specifically, it's on the northeast corner of 22nd Street and South School, but you'd be forgiven for not being familiar with where 22nd is. It's more recognizably just due east of the intersection of Cato Springs Road and South School Avenue.
 It's largely undeveloped and largely unused, except for those of you who may have visited and saw that there is some fenced-in area that looks like generally just used for vehicle storage on the property at the moment. The request is to rezone the property from C2 thoroughfare commercial to CS community services. The applicant has stated this is to allow the potential for residential development on the property. CS also allows non-residential uses, so it could go either way or a mix of the two.
 When looking at this through a land use compatibility lens, staff did find it to be compatible. This requests would inject residential uses on a corridor that is a mix of both. If you've been down school, you do notice there's a mix of some pretty heavy non-residential uses, some very light single family residential uses.
 and everything in between houses converted to businesses and back and forth from that perspective staff finds cs to be a very compatible use further in our eyes we consider this to be a down zoning of sorts the thoroughfare commercial zoning district allows some fairly heavy commercial uses like mechanic shops that can create a nuisance for people allows gas stations
 CS community services does not allow those Subject this request would be substituting some of those high-intensity non-residential uses with the allowance for residential uses Which we feel is appropriate and in fact aligns with our 71 B corridor plan When we look at this from the long-range planning perspective that one of the the crux ideas of the 71 B corridor plan was we have a corridor that is largely devoid of residential uses and very heavy on the
 non-residential uses and we've created the perfect situation where almost everybody needs to drive almost everywhere and this could go a ways to reverse that by allowing housing opportunities on the property
 We feel like this is reflected by the property's infill rating. It has a good fire response rating, which will get even better when the new fire station to the south is built. It has access to water, sewer, parks, and trail. There's a transit line nearby as well. And it also gets credit for the fact that a future land use map is designated as a city neighborhood area, which is a future land use map designation that indicates that.
 that would be an appropriate place for residential, non-residential or a mix of the two uses together. Again, considering that in our eyes, this is effectively a down zoning that injects the allowance for residential, we don't find any additional or any issues with the request. We've not heard any public comments. No public comment was given at the planning commission
 staff is recommending in favor of the proposal the Commission forwarded it to the council recommending approval as well again similar to the last item that their commentary was fairly cursory they felt it was an appropriate request at an appropriate location
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions you have. And I believe Hunter Atkinson was here as the applicant. I'm not sure if I see him in the room now. He may be present online, though. Okay, thanks. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, thank you. My apologies. I had to run out. My five-year-old has his tonsils out, and it's all hands on deck at onset. Okay.
 So thank you to Jonathan and the city staff for your review. This is a request for rezoning from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to Community Services. We find this to be a reduction in zoning intensity, and the request is in line with the city's future land use designation of city neighborhood.
 It supports the city's 2040 goals by allowing reform-based mixed-use development and urban infill. It also aligns with the corridor urbanism ethos of the 71B corridor plan by increasing affordable housing opportunities potentially and growing the opportunity to create an attractive front door to pay both downtown and the adjacent neighborhoods. This request lowers the intensity of zoning and supports the city's planning objectives.
 and more broadly to see its 2040 goals of becoming a more walkable, livable community, a more vibrant and resilient community. We're grateful for your consideration and request that you approve this reason. Thank you, and we're available for any questions. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff on this? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody's on Zoom, Mayor. I don't believe we have. Do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to the council on this? Okay. Now we'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 And Jonathan, you said we haven't had any public comment on it? That's correct. Staff has not received any. Has the council members from Ward 1 received any comments or anything? I'm not aware of any. Okay. Mayor Jordan, I'm not aware of any either. Okay. All right. So what discussion would the council like to have and what actions would the council like to take?
 If there are any questions, I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Bunch. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe in rezoning petition RZN 22-013, located northeast of South School Avenue and West 22nd Street in Ward 1, for approximately 1.35 acres from C2 commercial to CS community services. If there aren't any questions, I'd like to spin the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property, described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-013, located northeast of South School Avenue and West 22nd Street and Ward 1, for approximately 1.35 acres from C2 Thrift Fair Commercial to CS Community Services.
 what final comments do we have in the council okay care would you please call the road Jones yes Kenyon yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go to number four
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 22-005, property located at West Fox Club Drive in Ward 2, to vacate a portion of a general access and utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 and whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed portion of an access and utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general access and utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's agenda memo section 2 that a copy of this ordinance newly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached to exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington county circuit clerk
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, prior to the easement vacation, new water line must be reviewed and approved by City Engineering. The new water line shall be constructed, accepted, and new easement dedication. After such construction and dedication, the existing water line can be abandoned and this easement is vacated. Number 2, any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 2 in northwest Fayetteville. Despite the property's title, this is not on the current, more well-known Adventure Subaru campus. We're located immediately west of Crane Hyundai, which you can see from Shiloh and Interstate 49 on the west side of Fox Club Drive. The property was platted in 2006, and as with many plats, they've developed a retrofit
 or easements are dedicated with the best of intentions, not necessarily knowing what's coming through on a property. After this property has sat undeveloped for some time, a developer has bought both the lots to the north and south of the area you see in black stencil here, which represent lots.
 I believe it's five and six, or lots three and four of the subdivision, and they'd like to develop them together in such a way that they could do it in a coherent development. Unfortunately, that involves placing a building over the middle of those two lots where there are two easements.
 The first, as you can see here, is the access easement that comes off of Foxglove, which is shown in orange. The second is a pink utility easement, which also bisects the property. There are utility easements around all the perimeter of the property. The utility companies have all consented to that being vacated, and alternative locations are proposed for the development to accommodate circulation that the access easement was originally intended for.
 While this is a very straightforward request, staff has done their best to complicate it by accidentally including a condition of approval that I would like to ask that you strike as your first consideration once you get past the applicant's conversation. I apologize, Mr. Williams, for asking you to read the most complicated of those.
 So condition number one, which refers to approval and installation of a new water line that was accidentally included, that is not a part of this request. So I would ask again that council first amend the ordinance to strike condition number one as it's written and only approve it with the remaining condition, which is the damage and relocation of the existing facilities at the applicant's request. I apologize that it was not until we were reviewing that with planning before the meeting that we caught that.
 Otherwise, again, the utilities have all consented to the item and we are recommending approval. And Blake Jorgensen is present, I believe, online as the applicant for this item. I'm happy to take questions. And again, sorry for complicating an otherwise simple request. Okay. Don't let me forget to do the amendment. We'll hear from the applicant and then we'll do the amendment. Just don't let me forget to do that. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes.
 I guess our good evening mayor and council. We appreciate the staff's report on this and we do concur that we prefer the amendment even if there was a water line we wouldn't replace it and relocate. But beyond that we appreciate staff's time reviewing this application and the council's time this evening. So if you have questions, we're happy to answer. Thank you very much. Okay.
 what questions do we have for the afghan or the staff oh mayor i just have a clarifying question um so jonathan could you um the reason why you want to strike that is there's no waterline there is that is that correct that is correct okay thank you for that clarification is there amendment here somewhere
 I move that we amend the ordinance to what Jonathan said. Yeah, and strike condition number one. Yes, to strike condition one. Second. Second. Okay. Did we get a second? Teresa, did you second that? I'm sorry. Yes, I did, Mayor. Second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to amend to strike condition number one. Right, Jonathan? Right? Yep. Yes, Mayor, that's correct. Okay. All right.
 There's not any discussion on this. Karen, would you please call her up? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. We might want to comment that Councilmember Bunch has been joining us from Portugal.
 Which is a number of hours later than us so I appreciate that she was able to stay with us a long time Okay, all right if there's not any discussion I will take some public comment and then I'll bring it back to you all unless you have some questions You'd like to ask the staff and okay, but good all right everybody gets one turn to speak You have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic and
 Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Well, Mr. Jorgensen re-raised his hand, so I'm not sure if you want to hear from the applicant again. No, I do not, unless they have questions for him. There's no other Zoom participant with their hand raised. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this? Unless the council members would. Okay.
 All right. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or what action would the council like to take or what discussions would you like to have? I mean, we suspend the rule and go to the second reading. Second. That's right. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Terry, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Kenyon?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes, Indian. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes in order to prove the AC 22-double 05 We're properly located at West Foxglove Drives in Ward 2 to vacate a general a portion of a general access utility easement He found comments from the council. Okay care which please called row. I
 Jones? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number five. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-008 for property located northwest of 481 South School Avenue and Ward 2 to vacate a portion of an access and parking easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an access and parking easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of an access and parking easement,
 As described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Jonathan. MR. Thank you, Mayor.
 This property takes us right back to the southern reaches of downtown. Specifically, we're in the northwest corner of what would typically be considered the mill district, which I've outlined here in blue or cyan, whatever color you prefer. The area in orange represents...
 What you see here more close up is an access easement that was dedicated as a part of a 2007 plat when several other areas of easement and parkland were dedicated with the Mill District project.
 So the unusual shape here was associated with some master planning that has since obviously not occurred. Other access easements on the property have been vacated as development has happened. This one acts as a remnant. It is not generally serving a public purpose or its intended future purpose of serving a development that ended up not happening. And so the applicant has requested to vacate it.
 so that they can accommodate other plans for the property. Staff has not identified any issue with the proposal. We're recommending in favor of it. And again, as Mr. Williams noted, there's just the one boilerplate condition of approval we're recommending that is any damage or relocation of infrastructure or utilities on the property will be at the developer or applicant's request
 And I'm happy to take any questions the council has and I believe Tom Boudreau is online or Bordeaux Sorry if I'm pronouncing that incorrectly as the applicant. What do you have can like speak for the council you have ten minutes Thank you, this is Tom Bordeaux. Thanks. Mr. Bayer and the council. Thanks Jonathan for your help in the city staff I think Jonathan pretty much encapsulate everything I have Might need to say about this Any questions you all might have?
 This is an easement we put together with our neighbors some years ago. They sold their property. Their plans never came to fruition. They were going to build a parking lot there where the building at 495 West Prairie is, which is the Prairie Monkey building with Mamaka and a little tap room there.
 So we just, we'd like to get rid of this easement once and for all and would like your help to do it. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or staff on this council? Everybody good? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address.
 those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom susan nobody mayor okay anybody in the chamber like to address this on this issue okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion with the council like or what action would the council like to take i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second to go to second reading
 i care would you please call the row jones yes indian yes whittaker yes scroggin yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes in order to prove vac 22-008 for properly located northwest of 481 south school avenue in ward 2 to vacate a portion of an access and parking easement
 I move we suspend the roll to go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Inyan? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Turke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 In order to approve VAC 22-008 for property located northwest of 481 South School Avenue in Ward 2 to vacate a portion of an access and parking easement. What final comments do we have from the council on this? Mr. Mayor, it looks like a puzzle piece I searched for for a month, and so I'm pleased that we're approving this. Okay. That's good. Okay, Terry, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Jones yes, Indian yes, we'd occur yes Scroggins yes, turd yes Hertzberg. Yes, RV. Yes Okay, let's move to number six. Oh
 A resolution to authorize the approval to elect standard allowance of $10 million in revenue losses due to the public health emergency created by the COVID-19 pandemic from the previously awarded American Rescue Plan Act funds. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We had quite a lengthy discussion at the agenda session concerning this issue.
 This is requesting or presenting to the council the decision that we could make to use $10 million as a standard deduction from the American Recovery Act funds for revenue reimbursement to the city as a city reimbursement. What that would do is that would move $10 million into the city
 for use in public purposes projects those would be the normal projects that the city normally funds we've already approved 1.8 million dollars for service awards as you will remember in December of
 to the employees at the city of Fayetteville. And we remember that we did that because during the year of 2021, the employees did not receive a salary increase. So we've already moved $1.8 million. This would, this would move another $8.2 million into that category. Essentially what it would do is give the city
 a greater flexibility to address different programs that wouldn't necessarily be authorized by the ARPA fund rules as delineated in the final rules. Can everybody hear me all right? Yes, I hear you. I want to put up a slide and discuss a slide. I hope this simplifies a little bit where we are and what we're anticipating with the ARPA funding.
 If we look at the upper left quadrant and look at nonprofits, that's what we've discussed so far. We have three programs available for non-for-profits. Beneficiaries, a beneficiary to be reimbursed for losses, either due to revenue or additional expenditures. There are large beneficiaries that would be in excess of $5,000.
 for the smaller beneficiaries, we're under $5,000. We have a streamlined application that we would process to address those particular beneficiaries. The major program would be sub-recipients and the sub-recipients would agree to sub-recipient agreement with the city. In other words, they would agree to follow
 all of the regulations involved in federal grants. Remember this is a federal grant. We have to follow all federal grant programs including uniform guidance which talks about internal control of grant funds and ensuring that any subgrantee can meet those requirements.
 So we've talked about those and the nonprofits and the city councils allocated $1 million to that thus far. Also, it provides for infrastructure programs. Specifically, the infrastructure programs identified are water and sewer, water quality,
 broadband, which there are some issues with it, but we're looking at and it could have some other Programs, but we would have to tie them very very tightly to being caused by the pandemic itself the other issue that we had Anticipate and if we look at the lower Right quadrant we'll see his workforce development, which we haven't discussed yet, but intend to discuss in the near future. I
 So that $10 million revenue reimbursement, if in fact the city decides to do that, would give us an extra $8.2 million that we could program based on the city council's wishes for other programs. That could be used for anything with a public purpose. That's to identify some of the things that we could look at. We haven't looked at very specific programs
 Because we haven't developed them yet. We don't have the time to develop them All of the department heads and division heads would have to be involved to submit programs to look at and evaluate We really don't have time to do that until we know whether or not the City Council is Interested in doing that. Remember we have till 2024 to obligate these funds but some of the things we could look at is
 or drainage and stormwater. We could look at expanding that. We know we all have complaints for drainage. We all have stormwater issues. You hear it from your citizens all the time. You've heard it tonight. Could also look at park improvements
 Now, when we vented this through the Parks Board, they identified Walker Park as something that maybe we could look at expanding, getting it back up to standard and expanding some of the programs for Walker Park, which in fact would address
 Some of the citizens in our lower echo economic Status so would address a couple of things at that point in time. The other thing we could look at we could look at sidewalks and
 I know you always hear sidewalks, we never have enough money to fund all of the capital project we looked at or you could look at other expenditures if you wish. So what it would do is allow more flexibility for the council to pursue other things beside just the restrictive water and sewer and water quality.
 and broadband applications which are specifically identified in the infrastructure so that is where we are right now now thus far we've appropriated 3.2 million dollars if in fact we transfer the remaining uh 8.2 million dollars to make up the entire 10 million dollars for the revenue reimbursement
 We still at this time would have $5.6 million unallocated. We would get another roughly $750,000 remaining when we move the money in for the reimbursement. So we'd have a total of approximately $6.4 million to spread in these other areas.
 Now, we intend to come forward and talk about these other areas in the future, but what I wanted to do tonight is kind of give you a global picture of what we had in mind of what we need to discuss moving forward. But the question at hand right now is, do we wish to apply for the revenue reimbursement of the full standard $10 million and move forward? Now, we will say from...
 Listening to the Municipal League and advice from the Municipal League, they're advising the cities in Arkansas to do that and take the standard deduction if at all possible.
 Prior to that, they were advertising or telling them to look at infrastructure projects carefully. But this would broaden the ability to look at some of the infrastructure programs and some of the things that we were unable to fund because of the coronavirus. With that, I'll be happy to take questions. Okay. What questions do we have in the council audience? Mayor, I have a question for Paul.
 You know, the American, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act was passed in November of 2021. So I'm wondering how much money the city is going to get from the Infrastructure Act from the federal government, because it would seem that there would be quite a bit of funding headed our way from the federal government and be able to cover some of these projects that maybe you're mentioning. Thank you.
 I can't answer that definitively for you at this point, Teresa, but most of that money, I believe, is to be earmarked for transportation. Okay.
 We haven't got the definitive rules on that yet, so I can't answer definitively on that. I believe most of that's supposed to come through the Department of Transportation. Susan, do you have something to add? I'll only add that we do get notification as soon as information rolls down the hill. We get our information from the National League of Cities, and they're very quick to let us know which areas to be looking at, but we don't have any definitive information right now.
 Thank you. It seems like there's going to be additional funds flowing, and I thought it was much broader than transportation. But for me, it would be very helpful. I'm glad you put this slide up. This helps a little bit.
 and understanding your thinking on the city and what that proposed $10 million would do for revenue. Just, you know, I think last two weeks ago, or last week, you mentioned that the city had $6.9 million that was identified as a loss due to COVID. Do I have my numbers right, Paul? That's what we calculated, what the Municipal League is advising us
 Most of the municipalities don't even bother trying to calculate it because it's rather difficult calculation but based on the on the format that we had that we calculated We calculated six point nine million dollars. Yes, we did but Again, that could be have done incorrectly It could have been a little more could have been a little less but that's what we calculated based on the the
 the guidance that we had received. Okay, thank you. What other questions do we have in the council? There aren't any other questions. I wanted to say thank you for the visual, super helpful. I believe we passed the resolution, unless there are questions. I got to take public comment. Oh, public comment. If you don't, if you all don't have any more questions, I will take public comment. Okay, everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Margaret Britton. Go ahead. Hi, this is Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. I'm speaking for the Environmental Action Committee.
 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Excuse me. Which met last night. The environmental action, this is the statement that the committee put together concerning this issue. The Environmental Action Committee learned last night that the City Council would consider tonight decoupling $10 million of ARPA funding from the existing federal regulations.
 Since water quality was built into this federal funding from the outset, we are concerned that funds for water quality may be at risk if the city decides to decouple from the federal regulations. Thirteen months ago, this body pledged in a unanimous vote to clean up Lake Fayetteville to swimmable quality within 10 years. An engineering firm, Olsen, was chosen to begin that work last June.
 Unfortunately, funds have not yet been allocated by the council to begin progress toward this pledged intent. Step one is to contract with Olson to do a study outlining what needs to be done at the lake and in the watershed and what that will cost. The city needs to allocate $202,000 for that study.
 the environmental action committee wants to remind the council of the vital importance of water quality to the health of the city's residents and to the importance economically of having clean water in our parks and recreation areas it is crucial to get this first step moving forward we are already 13 months into our 10-year goal
 To that end, the Environmental Action Committee recommends that the Council uses tonight's meeting to thoroughly investigate the pros and cons of ARPA fund decoupling, and then returns at a later date, perhaps April 27th or 28th, to make this crucial decision.
 We rarely have the kind of opportunity afforded by the ARPA funds to improve the water quality of Lake Fayetteville and its downstream waterways, including the Illinois River, the Arkansas River, and the Gulf of Mexico. Let's not rush this decision. Thank you. Well, I think in the chart that Paul showed, he did show water quality in the chart, correct? Yes.
 Yes, it did. And that's available for funding. I did want to add that at the request of the Environmental Action Committee, we're going to be bringing forward
 request to use our funds to begin a contract to begin to study that in the neighborhood of 200 $200,000 that the exact number I don't have yet but we expect that to bring that forward probably at the next council meeting it will be at the 17th because of the deadline that we just passed but it will be at the 17th that's great news thank you you're very well what other public comment do we have Susan on soon no one else has their hand raised mayor
 Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who'd like to address us on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. But council, I just want to say before you make motions and vote or discuss this, keep in mind this particular chart. Now, these are topics that you all can look at, not look at, because at the end of the day, you'll all be making recommendations. I mean, we can talk about whatever you want to, but these are just kind of some outlines or some things that can be used for it, doesn't have to be used for it.
 It just gives you the option. Okay? So what discussion would the council like to have? Mayor Jordan, I have a question. When would the city council need to perhaps come up with recommendations? Does all of that have to be done by April 30th?
 No, DeAndre, I don't believe it does. We need to pass this, but you all are going to give us recommendations because at the end of the day, you'll be making decisions on where this money's going to be spent. Okay. Thank you so much. You're welcome. I have another comment. I thought that the scope of the ARPA funding, the way it was laid out, was pretty good because it dealt with...
 economic recovery, what especially people and businesses that had been harmed by COVID. That was its intent. Also, the water quality issue, as you all know, is near and dear to my heart. And I really
 while I understand flexibility can be a good thing and allow the city to be able to fund other items, we still have the general fund, we still have infrastructure money that's coming down the pike.
 We have a lot of options already. And I've really, I've been thinking about this all week long. It's not that I don't trust the city or the council, but I think that the way ARPA was set up was the appropriate balance and the response to the COVID. And so I would really, I'm not going to support this because I really want to keep the,
 I think we need to keep the city's eye on the prize of how do we make whole or compensate businesses and organizations and people, not people, but organizations that were impacted by COVID and also be able to do our workforce development. I still think we've got a lot of flexibility from other buckets.
 uh i don't mean any disrespect at all for the city i know this was an option that was presented by the federal government and i'm glad that we that it's here for our discussion but i think i'm just gonna um support the way the funds are are right now with with arpa okay thank you very much uh first of all we need a motion a second to even
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. Okay. We have a motion to second the passed resolution. Now let's get on into the final comments and whatever discussion you'd like to have.
 Mayor Jordan and City Council, I agree with Council Member Tark. I just feel like we have a, this is a one-time opportunity to really, really, really help those who have been impacted by COVID. And so I'm supporting that we continue
 that the original intent for the funding, that it remains. I feel as if we have other resources as it relates for funding other projects. And we still have so many individuals and so many businesses who could certainly benefit from that.
 I'm looking at providing social service relief. I don't think that that's really in the general fund. And so, again, there's so many small businesses who have been impacted, locally owned businesses who continue to bear the burden of COVID. And so I echo the sentiments of...
 that Council Member Turk said, and I don't think that I will be, I will not be supporting the making those changes. Okay, thank you. What other final comments do we have? I just wanted to say, I will be in support of this. And I wanted to thank Paul for putting together that graphic because it really helped me understand this better. So thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I'm supportive of this for two reasons. One, this is actually included in the original ARPA funding language as put out by the Department of Treasury as a way of assisting the most residents within any community that is receiving the ARPA funding. And the second reason is just because the city accepts this
 internal encumbrance so to speak of these funds does not mean that we could not choose to spend them on job training that we could not choose to spend them on any of a number of other things simply because We have the discretion to do that They're not committed to any one project in my way of thinking they could even be used to fund the you know cleanup of
 Lake Fayetteville if we so chose. So we're not simply painting ourselves in the corner, we're simply
 entrusting ourselves to make the most appropriate use of this particular block of funding, and it doesn't preclude any other good use for the funds. Yeah, and the thing I really want to stress here is that at the end of the day, you all will be making decisions on what we're going to do with this exactly. It's not like I'm going to decide what we're going to do with it. I mean, at the end of the day, I rely on you all and the discussions that we've had to say, well, Mayor, we want to spend it here, we want to spend it there.
 I'm just trying to we were just trying to give you as much flexibility as we could so I have another question Paul didn't you say that the state of Arkansas is recommending that these funds be used on water and sewer no no I didn't if I gave you that impression now I'm sorry I did not what the Municipal League
 is recommending is that municipalities choose to reimburse the municipality if available but no I did not I did not say that if I did I certainly didn't intend to thank you and final comments well I think what I see here is that we do have the opportunity to help social services that we also have with this layout of
 as mentioned several times, the flexibility to put money in these different buckets, if you want to use that term. So it gives us a little bit more guidance to see the broad impact that we can have across the board. Of course the intent also includes a lot of services that impact individuals on a social level.
 Paul, I think that this is a good representation of opportunity. And again, it doesn't walk us into anything, but the thought that went in to put this together as far as representing opportunity that will be available is what I think we should focus on right now and not get funneled into one area that might be of special interest to us, period.
 So I, whenever I saw this, I think that it actually was a relief because it gives us, like I say, the opportunity to imagine a broad spectrum of things that we can support that will impact the most people in our community in the long run as well as in the short run. And that's where we got, had a problem during the pandemic is a lot of the things that would have had an impact.
 like an infrastructure in the long run was stymied. We just didn't get to it. And that is part of this rescue. So I understand the broadness of this and I respect it. And I think that it is a good representation of possibilities. And like the mayor said, we still have the opportunity to fine tune all of this. So this has helped me understand the broad opportunity. So thank you.
 I have another question. And what if the items that the money could be spent on that would be prohibited? Is there anything that it can't be spent on if it's moved to the general fund? If we move this money to the general fund, is there anything that it cannot be spent on? Yes, there are several things that can't be spent on. It has to be spent on public funds.
 It has to be spent on a public purpose. That is something that a municipality could fund. So there are things that would be restricted.
 For example, we couldn't give direct assistance to individuals under those circumstances, but it could be spent on any other public purpose. And Kit and I would have to look and analyze what is a public purpose. Don't forget, we have already allocated $1 million to non-for-profits. We will still have...
 6.4 million dollars to allocate going forward for these other programs. And Council, I want you to understand, I'm not going to take the money and move it into the general fund or something without you all saying, hey Mayor, here's where we're going to spend the money.
 I mean, this will be a decision that you'll make, and then we'll move it however you want to do it, as long as it lines up with the federal guidelines. Right, Paul? Yes, that's correct. Paul, I appreciate that. And when we're making the present, when you make the presentation, maybe I missed something, but that would have been really nice to see as well, because I'm wanting to see a bigger picture. So that would have been nice to see those...
 what you just told us as it relates to restrictions. Remember, there are other funds available out there for individuals besides strictly the municipal funding that we have. What other funds are available? What would you be referencing? I'm sorry, I missed that. I believe Yolanda's here. Yolanda, would you care to respond to that?
 Yolanda is here, but I'm not sure what the question is. Go ahead, Yolanda. Yeah. What is the question?
 Well, if I understand correctly, DeAndre is saying whether their funds are available for individuals for help. So, Yolanda, can you more or less go over the problem? Yeah, I can give you some examples. I mean, right now we have really the rental assistance is back opened up with the county. We have mortgage assistance and utility assistance that's being provided through the state.
 And I think there are more funds being rolled out for, you're talking about just specific assistance to individuals. So that is happening. And I believe that there are some funds being rolled out to assist small businesses with losses. I think that's being worked on right now. Is that the type of program that you're talking about? Yes, thank you for sharing that. And is this money coming from,
 It sounds like this is separate from the ARPA funding, right? Yes, yes. It's all separate. There are pockets of funding all over, and they're slowly rolling out. The mortgage program from the state just rolled out in February, and they're providing mortgage assistance and utility assistance for individuals that are behind on their mortgage. So the goal there is to try and keep folks housed.
 so that they aren't losing their housing. So that's the big push right now. And then we're also looking at legal aid and aspects for tenant protection. There are funds that are rolling out for that to assist individuals with eviction challenges.
 and there's money coming out for housing assistance for individuals to rehouse if they happen to be in eviction mode. So that's in the works to HUD. So a lot of this, we need to be reaching out at the federal level for the future budgets to make sure that nothing is being cut. There is currently some discussion that CDBG funds, for example,
 are maybe possibly going to be cut. This would be the worst time possible to be cutting federal, to be cutting CDBG funding for assistance. So we need to be reaching out at the federal level to indicate that we need more funding, not less funding, to help everybody that's trying to recoup from COVID and the pandemic.
 Yolanda, when you say we need to be reaching out or lobbying, do you mean the City Council members or just people in general? I mean the community as a whole, all of us, individuals reaching out to their representatives, reaching out to their senators or congressmen to talk about the needs that our community has. And please do not cut the federal funding to assist for all the programs that we have that are assisting individuals in need. Absolutely, this is the time to be reaching out.
 Thank you for sharing that. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And that passed, Mayor. All right. Thank you all very much.
 Very much. All right. What announcements do we have? Does anybody else have any announcements? Want to stay a while and just hang out? All right. Thank you all very much. Really good work tonight. We're adjourned.