I'd like to call the meeting of the City Council order for April the 21st 2020. Karen would you please call the roll. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggen. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, and I am present in the council chambers.
 with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk-Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the city of Fed, and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting.
 viewing through federal's government channel, online, or city's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Instructions are currently shown on the screen. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment, which staff will monitor. Now let's begin. The first order of business we have tonight is an additional walk-on by Councilmember Smith
 and it reads an ordinance to amend ordinance number 6292, which granted the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to provide for the safety and health of federal inhabitants and to pass an emergency clause. Yeah, Mayor Councilman Smith will need to move, suspend the rules so this can be added to the agenda. Do we have a second? I'll second. Okay.
 All right, we have a motion and a second to add this amendment to the ordinance to the agenda. And Tara, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Mayor, let me read the ordinance now.
 Whereas the City Council passed Ordinance No. 6292 on March 16, 2020, granting Mayor Lionel Jordan temporary extraordinary powers to protect the public health and safety at a time when social distancing recommendations made uncertain our ability to conduct regular City Council business safely. And whereas Mayor Jordan's swift and firm actions pursuant to Ordinance No. 6292 have set the standard for good practice in communities across the state.
 And whereas Mayor Jordan issued policy number four, pursuant to ordinance number 6292, establishing procedures for virtual meetings that have allowed the city council to continue its legislative function without interruption, and whereas the COVID-19 public health situation may necessitate the city council's renewal of our confidence in Mayor Jordan's ability to respond quickly to changing circumstances over protracted periods by extending the effective date of ordinance number 6292,
 but the City Council should continue to exercise its legislative role reviewing these policies. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Ordinance Number 6292 by adding the following subsections. Subsection five, all policies issued by Mayor Jordan pursuant to the powers granted by this ordinance shall be immediately effective with prompt notification of the City Council, public and press
 Number six, during the first city council meeting following the issuance of any new mayoral policy, the first order of new business shall be a resolution to approve or reject any or all mayoral policies not previously approved by the city council. Any rejected policy shall immediately be rendered ineffective and unenforceable.
 Number seven, all mayoral policies issued pursuant to this ordinance are terminated and made ineffective upon the ineffective date or repeal of Ordinance Number 6292 as amended. And section two, that the City Council and the City of Fale-Larks are hereby approved the following mayoral policies issued pursuant to Ordinance Number 6292 and which are currently effective.
 A, amended policy number one, limiting bars and restaurants to takeout, curbside, or delivery, and suspending any regulations preventing restaurants from acting like grocery stores. B, policy number two, limiting funeral homes, indoor services to family members. Policy number three, limiting attendance in theaters and auditoriums and requiring social distancing.
 D, policy number four, allowing virtual city council planning commission meetings. And E, policy five, requiring social distancing in parks and suspending the expanded polished dye ring foam single-use product ban until July 1, 2020. Section three, emergency clause. The Fayetteville City Council recognizes that Fayetteville and its citizens are under dire threat.
 from the COVID-19 pandemic, and that our citizens' health and safety require this ordinance granting the mayor's extraordinary power, temporary powers, to protect our citizens constituted in emergency, such that this ordinance must and will go into full force and effect, immediately upon its passage and approval. I guess this was Kyle's, so I'll let Kyle explain. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to start off on this by saying that I have absolutely the most respect for Mayor Jordan in bringing this. In fact, I don't think there is anyone I would rather have leading Fayetteville through a crisis than him. So that kind of leaves this an academic issue. But I think we also have a responsibility for the message that we leave for future councils and future mayors that we are going to have to be very careful about what we do and what we do not do. And I think that's what we need to do.
 We think back to other elections, the other options that we could have right now. I just want to make sure that we are ensuring some good government oversight and that our citizens have their opportunity for comment on policies that could be long lasting depending on the situation.
 how fast we end up reopening things or seeing the need to keep things, our economy tightened down a little more for public health reasons. So the two main provisions here,
 Just ensuring that there is public notification of new policies, which I believe has been the practice but was not technically required in the previous version of the ordinance and section six
 would allow them continue to allow the mayor to act quickly But give the council some shared responsibility in the policies that that he passes One sort of practical point on this the way the ordinance the extraordinary powers ordinance is currently written our only option is to Continue the entire package of policies or reject them all
 as a complete set. And so this gives us a little more granularity. I don't anticipate that Mayor Jordan is going to enact any policy that's going to see widespread opposition here. But just in case, it would seem foolhardy to throw out everything in case there was one objection.
 So with that, that's, that's the ordinance and I'd be happy to entertain any questions. Oh, and section two, sorry. Section two goes ahead and takes care of approving all of the existing policies. Okay, what questions do we have from the council? I have a question.
 uh my understanding is that it it will allow us to to reject the one's policy at a time and then have public input per policy because i feel like this is opposite of what the whole emergency you know decision that we're allowing for mr you know the mayor uh to to make in a time of when we're in an emergency state and i totally understand you know wanting to have
 I appreciate those words, but I feel like this is the whole point of it is for an emergency. So I'm trying to understand, you know, this is going to make things a little bit slowed down. So just can you help me understand what the process is for each item, the policy that's passed by the mayor? Sure. So the way this works, I think it's a little bit different.
 When the mayor implements a new policy under the extraordinary powers ordinance, he can enforce those immediately up until the next council meeting. And so if tomorrow circumstances changed and he needed to implement a new policy, he could do that, notify the public and the council, and then immediately put that into effect without waiting for our next council meeting.
 But this would just give us a chance at the next council meeting to decide in the event that something was out of line, which again, I do not anticipate. But we give us an opportunity at that point to roll things back one policy at a time without having to reject the entire package.
 I kind of feel that this, I kind of agree with Sonia on this, that it seems like, so, so if we, if we are in favor of what you're proposing, Kyle, then what if someone wants, what if someone disputes one of the, one of the particular issues? It, it, we call a special session or we bring it up at the next session. Okay.
 Let me explain what the procedure would be. Assuming you pass this tonight,
 you will have approved the five policies that I read. And if someone doesn't like one of those policies, they can move to amend this ordinance and remove that policy from it. At that point, it will be only the new policies that the mayor would might issue before the next meeting. If the mayor issues any policy, then we'll prepare a resolution specifically for that one policy and
 And it'll be up to the city council about whether or not they want to accept it or reject it. But you're not going back over everything again and again. So I don't think it'll be very complicated. It'll be just whatever policy, if any, that the mayor might issue between now and the next city council meeting. Okay. I have a question if you're done, Sarah. Oh, yes, I am. I'm trying to find it on my phone.
 I'm going to put my trusty little iPad here. So go ahead. Okay, so Kit, if for example, we rejected Kyle's resolution tonight and we enacted the mayor to have or extended his emergency authority for another month, if he made another declaration or resolution and the city council did not agree with that,
 Could we at the next meeting rescind that emergency power or have some other kind of mechanism to disagree with whatever he might have done? Well, certainly the city council can always pass an ordinance and undo a previous ordinance. So if there was some disagreement with how the mayor had been using his temporary emergency powers,
 Then a you could request that an ordinance be drafted to repeal those emergency powers, at least in regards to whatever policy you disagreed with. So that would be possible. Of course, an orange a little bit more difficult to pass than a resolution and
 And there was no automatic way to either approve or reject these. That's what Kyle's ordinance would do. He would just, his ordinance would say that if the mayor issued any new policy based upon his extraordinary powers, then there would be a resolution as a first item of new business with the, with the city council to approve it or reject it. And so, uh,
 You could still do that with an ordinance, as you talk about. So you don't have to have this for the city council to maintain control of its inherent powers. Thank you. If I can follow up on that. Under this change, we would be approving the mayor's actions by resolution, which
 I would only need a simple majority and could generally, I suspect, go on consent and be discussed at agenda sessions if it were, depending on the timing. Bring forth a new ordinance to roll back something. If you wanted to do that on one night, it would require suspension of the rules, multiple votes, and I believe that would be six votes to roll something like that through in one
 I have another question. Okay, so the idea is that we would go to the next meeting, read all the policies that were enacted by the mayor, and then we could move that we, let's just say we didn't agree with one of them to,
 remove one of the, say, seven policies, and then we would all vote on that one. And that's why it's good that it's a resolution, because we can take care of it at that one moment. Is that correct? No, that is not correct. If you look under subsection six, it says that the new resolution would be to approve or reject
 in your all mayoral policies not previously approved by the city council. If you pass this ordinance without amendment, you will be approving the five policies that I just read to you. So then it would only be new policies that would be coming before you.
 but we still couldn't reject one. We get the future ones, the future new ones, we could reject one out of seven, let's say. Oh yes, that's absolutely correct. If he issues three new policies, you could approve two and reject one or reject two and approve one. Yeah, those will not be done in blanket. Okay, that's helpful, thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute time limit, unless the city council, by a majority vote, gives you more time. Or if the city council has questions for you, stay on topic, no rude behavior, and please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us from the public on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So...
 and if anyone's hesitant council i just want to say i you know if you all want to pass this i have no problems with this so um whatever i pass i'll be more than happy to bring back to you in two weeks and you can discuss it and pick and choose what you like or don't like i try to be as transparent as i possibly can so this is this would not be an issue for me if you choose to pass it so i i want you all to know that so
 I'll just make a quick comment. I do think Kyle appreciate all your work to to make it more clear and I appreciate that this would help it go from resolution ordinance to resolution. So I think that helps to clarify that and I appreciate your comments, Mayor, because I feel like the whole purpose of the that we did that is to give full confidence for you to make a decision. I do love to be able to review the
 the policies after so um i'll probably go ahead and support it um especially since you're you feel good about it yeah i don't have any problems council not at all so what do y'all want to do we're on the first reading well um uh i actually uh plan on voting against this i think if we did have a different mayor um i think at that point we could look at this differently uh there's
 Michael's been in office for longer than I've been in Fayetteville. I have complete trust in him. I really don't think we need this. If we had a different mayor, yeah, I probably would look at this a little differently. So I'll actually be voting against this.
 I have complete trust in our mayor, but I do think that we're setting precedent for future actions and that's why it is important to have some oversight. And I'm happy to go through and approve everything that the mayor does during this time, but I do think that having that balance of power is important and sets an important precedent should a future administration deal with a similar issue. So I do plan to support this.
 If a future administration deals with this, does this really set the precedent that it has to be done exactly the same way in the future? It's always up to the future city councils to do exactly what they want. They don't have to follow what you did or not. It's just totally up to whatever the future city councils would want to do.
 Okay. Well, you know, the way I look at this is that, you know, I really have a lot of faith in our mayor as well. And, and I don't think he's, he's not.
 proven that he, he doesn't really want to have to make these, some of the decisions he's having to make, and, you know, I don't, I don't think they're his, you know, his choice, but he does them because he has to, and so I'm not, I'm not really in, in favor of this. I don't, I don't see that it, it does a whole lot to, to help, and it could, I think it could slow down the process some. Hopefully, we don't ever have to, to find ourselves in a position where we, you know,
 i don't think we would find ourselves in a position where we would have to go back and and redo something if we did we always have that option so i don't think i'll be supporting this thank you i also think that i would not be supporting this either we talk about setting a percent precedent for the
 and the future mayors. Well, I think that it's in the future is whenever we have to review this to see if it's appropriate at that time. So currently, and I've thought about this as, well, what if it was a different mayor? But it isn't a different mayor, it isn't a different administration. It's the administration that we have at hand
 And we have a situation at hand that is different than anything we've faced in the past. So at this time, I'm pretty happy with the situation without adding another layer to it. And I do think that we're looking at this administration at this time with this particular environment that we're faced with. So I will not be supporting this unless I hear a compelling argument otherwise.
 So I want to add a little bit of nuance to this idea of precedence because while there's no legal requirement that a future council follow our our exact footsteps in the event of a different mayor and And I do believe that our current mayor is doing a fantastic job and I have no qualms about letting him continue doing that but the way we handle this situation is
 It's not just about setting a precedent for a future administration. It's also about advising a future council who will not be us, may not be us, hopefully won't be us, in how they may handle a future situation. And while they will be free to do their own thing, as Kit always reminds us, you can't tie the hands of future council.
 I hope we all learn from history and look back to similar situations. And this is our opportunity to make sure that we are operating good government and maintaining the appropriate separations and giving our citizens as many guardians of their public trust as we can.
 I think the mayor's been doing a terrific job, and I just kind of see this as being, at this point in time, unnecessary, because we have plenty of other mechanisms, if there was something that we did not disagree with. So, yeah.
 I will not be supporting this, but I do appreciate, Kyle, your thoughtfulness and your advocacy for more oversight. I just don't think it's necessary in this situation. Thanks. Okay. We're on. Anybody else? This is not a resolution. This is an ordinance. So we have yet to advance it to the second and third readings. So...
 Well, Mayor, I certainly don't want this to come up on the agenda in two weeks. So if we can go ahead and give it an up or down vote, I'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 6292 which granted the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to provide for the safety and health of Fayetteville inhabitants and to pass an emergency clause.
 I just have one last comment. You know, I just, I'm definitely on the fence on this, but I feel like in the end, the whole purpose of the emergency clause is to make things as easy as possible.
 streamlined as possible and I hate that this would potentially put any kind of blocks on that so this is a tough one for me because I do also want us to be able to review things so I think in the end though this is an emergency situation it's about health and safety and I trust that the mayor will make those decisions and I don't think
 that's what the this was designed for for us to do that and then move on to the next business so in the end I will not be supporting him. Then I will move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. I'll second that. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turke? Yes. And ordinance to amend ordinance number 6292 which granted the mayor temporary extraordinary powers to abide for the safety and health of Fayetteville inhabitants and to pass an emergency clause. Okay, what final comments do we have from the council?
 Council, let me just say one thing before we vote one way or the other, and I can do this any way you all want me to. I really can. But I will make sure that any policies that I decide to implement, however this vote goes, you will be given a copy of that policy, and I'll make sure you have that. You can review it, and if you don't like it, you can...
 come back and if you don't agree with me i don't have a problem with that either i'm just making the best decisions i know how to make help for the health and safety of the citizens and if you don't agree with me certainly we can look at it again you can contact my chief of staff or city attorney or any of us and we want to be as open and transparent as we possibly can a lot of these decisions that can be a little bit
 can be a little bit heavy at times. So, but I want you to know that, however this vote goes, that I will keep you informed of whatever policies that I do decide to enact. Okay? All right. Any other final comments? Only to say thank you, Mayor. You're welcome, Kyle. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. No.
 Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Turk? Turk? Sorry. We didn't hear you. Can you hear me now? Yeah. No. Okay, Mayor, the ordinance failed. Okay. Well, thank you all, but I will be sure that you all are kept in full. All right. Now let's go on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 7, 2020 City Council Meeting of Benefits.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 20-32 and to authorize the purchase of a chemical storage tank from Thorpe Plant Services Incorporated any amount of $41,974 plus applicable taxes and freight charges for use at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Number three, a resolution to express the willingness of the city of Federal to apply for and utilize federal aid
 recreational trails program grant funds any amount of 440 000 of the reconstruction and improvement to the section of the lake federal shared use paved trail across the dam and to approve a city match of 110 000 for the project number four a resolution to express the willingness
 of the city of federal to apply for and utilize federal federal aid arkansas department of transportation transportation alternatives program grant funds any amount of five hundred thousand dollars for the construction of the clever creek trail tunnel under garland avenue at van ashe drive and to approve a city match of 125 000 for the project
 number five a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of twenty five thousand dollars recognizing funding for the housing success program within from the from the endeavor foundation number six a
 a resolution to authorize the application for a 50-50 matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation in the amount of $3 million for the reconstruction of Maple Street from Razorback Regional Greenway to Garland Avenue. And number seven, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with the University of Arkansas to provide housing for federal fire and police department personnel who need to quarantine. I will entertain a motion
 to accept the consent agenda as read. I move to accept. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, let's go on to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to enact Article 10, peddled carriages into Chapter 117 vehicle-related businesses. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Brown?
 Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. An ordinance to enact Article 10, Pedal Carriages, into Chapter 117, Vehicle-Related Businesses. Okay. Devin, I believe you have this one.
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going, before we present this item, as we discussed at the agenda session, I wanted to let you know staff is asking for an amendment to this ordinance that will make two changes. Those changes come at the request of the Fayetteville Police Department, as well as myself looking at this again. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen, if that's okay.
 And we go to what those amendments specifically do. They do two things. The first is 117.123C, and it changes the word investigation to background check to be consistent with our code.
 The second change is it deletes 117.123B1D, which is proof of training and use of an operation of a pedal carriage pursuant to curriculum approved by the police chief. And I'd like to just add with that, we looked at not only the police department approving curriculum, but training programs are company specific. And if an applicant goes through a franchise, our research indicates they will receive that training.
 I don't feel this diminishes the safety, but it could have the unintended consequence where you have an entrepreneur start their own company, and those training programs are not something that are broadly readily available to members of the public. So that is our amendment. Kit, did you want to add on to that? Yeah.
 Mayor, I think what the City Council probably ought to do is go ahead and grant the amendment, pass the amendment as described by Devin. Okay, there's actually two points so we can do them. There's one amendment. Yes. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this, on the amendment? Anything? Okay. I have a question.
 So just getting back to this training issue. So if you do have an entrepreneur that starts up their own company and they're just bare bones, they have no training at all, that would seem to sort of be sort of a safety risk. So I'm just wondering if you thought about that, Devin, or if the police chief had any comments in a situation such as that.
 Absolutely. Council Member Kuth, I'm happy to address that. As we'll go through when we present the ordinance, the ordinance has a lot of safety provisions built into it. It was developed by assessing other municipalities that have had similar ordinances, many of which 21 years of age. They have to have a driver's license. And the other component is for an operator, and we'll discuss this more in a second, to cover the safety provisions.
 to be issued a certificate of public necessity, they will have to come back before you and go through the Police Department. Those are things that we and the Council can ask of that applicant at that point in time, coupled with all the other safety parameters and safety precautions outlaid in the ordinance.
 So you feel and the police chief feels that with those added requirements that this will be covered and I guess we could when they come before the council, we can ask these questions as well. So really that second amendment was really just to make sure that this didn't hold up a really good legitimate operation by having to have it reviewed by the police department. Is that accurate?
 I'll defer to Chief Reynolds, but it was also mainly looking at getting rid of the point of our Fayetteville police chief having to approve curriculum. Okay. I got the chief up here right now, and he can answer a lot of those questions. Yeah, I'll be happy to answer that, Mayor. Council Member Turk, so that was the biggest issue with me is, number one, finding the curriculum for a pedal carriage program.
 that you could do training on. And so, you know, for my department, just not having the knowledge or the expertise in that field was the biggest issue for us. And we were just trying to make this mirror with our taxi cab ordinance as well. And so when I reviewed this, the two issues that I had was number one, the curriculum, and number two, the background investigation.
 And so we wanted to have that wording very similar to that and do a background check. And then when I looked at the requirements for the background check with the valid driver's license, also with the name of the four individuals that could vouch for basically a character reference, along with the valid certificate of public conveyance, I felt very comfortable with our ability to look at the applicant's background and provide a recommendation on whether or not that they would...
 safe or not in this area. Okay, thank you so much. You're very welcome. Chief, I have another question while you're up there. Yes, sir. What kind of driver's license would someone need to drive one of these? I know it's not a motorized vehicle, but they do have a lot of passengers. Do they need a CDL?
 No, a CDL wouldn't be required. And all that the ordinance is requiring is a valid driver's license. So we would specifically look at that and see whether or not they have a valid driver's license. And I also think it has to be the the applicant would have to be free and clear of any alcohol related incidents for a year, if I remember correctly, on the ordinance. So as long as they can produce those two things and then have good for good character witnesses, then they would pass that background check. Thank you.
 very welcome okay do we have any other questions from the council on the amendment sorry i was gonna i was gonna ask a question but it's not on the amendment so i decided to not ask it but uh i will i will move that we um amend the resolution if that's if anyone doesn't have any more questions well well first y'all i gotta get some public comment and then
 right give me a second okay now we'll have some public comment now everybody gets one turn to speak they have a five-minute limit unless the City Council by majority vote gives you more time or if the City Council has questions for you stay on topic it's the two amendments that we've discussed no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first from the public
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council on the amendment. Now, Sonia, I believe you have the floor. I move that we add the amendment to the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Any other discussion from the city council? Kyle? No, sorry. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Turk? Yes. So, Mayor, the amendment to the exhibit to the ordinance has been approved. Okay. Now let's bring it back to the council for the amended ordinance. Is there any questions on the amended ordinance from the council? I have a question.
 Is there a limit on the amount of pedal carriages that can be in operation at any one time? I can answer that, Mayor. Okay. That is, Council Member Gutierrez, that is set by the City Council in regards to the number of certificates of public convenience that you feel are necessary to serve the public in regards to pedal carriages, the same as taxi cabs. So that would be up to you. Is that right, Chief? Yes.
 Yeah, that's absolutely correct. Just like a taxi cab ordinance, we would come forward, the police department would bring the applicant forward, and it would be a public hearing, and you, the city council members, and the mayor would make that decision as to how many pedal carriage companies are going to operate in the city of Fayetteville. Okay. We have questions from the council. Okay. Now we'll take some public comment on the... Sorry. Okay.
 Oh yes, Mayor. I'd like to, before we move on to the ordinance, give a little more information for the public and the City Council with the presentation.
 Okay, go ahead, Devin. Thank you, Mayor. In regards to the pedal carriage ordinance on the timeline, we wanted to give everybody a much more deep background because this was an item that we had brought before the pandemic's first wave struck our community. And so we go back to February 25th when this was reviewed.
 Also, as staff, as we mentioned last week at the agenda session, we are recommending that city council proceed with consideration of this ordinance. And our reasoning, which I wanted to stress, is adoption does not mean automatic right for these pedal carriages to operate in our community because of the certificate of public convenience. If the ordinance becomes law, we have no intention of bringing these back before you until state and CDC guidance would allow people to congregate in that safe of a manner.
 The item before you establishes the rules for the safe operation of pedal carriages, and we worked with the city attorney's office, the Fayetteville Police Department, as well as the University of Arkansas. The ordinance was reviewed by the Transportation Committee. And so when we think about what this is…
 And it is a non-motorized electric powered bicycle type vehicle that has a driver at least 21 years of age. The ordinance was crafted after review of other municipalities' pedal carriage ordinances. It can have an electric assist motor and will likely need to with our hills, and it also must have an enhanced braking system for safety.
 And we go to, when you think about this, this is kind of the size and we're not concerned with speed with these. It's kind of a lack thereof with how slow these move. And so we go to 2010 is when the city actually enacted a pedicab ordinance. And at the advice of the city attorney, we crafted a new ordinance due to very distinct differences between these two types of modes of transportation. The ordinance establishes
 A zone of operation with or establishes a process of approval as we've discussed through Fayetteville Police and the City Council. It lays out a wide range of safety parameters and requirements including insurance, 1 million for each occurrence, 5 million aggregate, enhanced braking systems due to the large size of these vehicles, and they would not be allowed to operate on our trails, our sidewalks, or within any closed street. The zone of operation
 is that it has two approved routes outside of it. One to Nomads at 15 that utilizes Hill, a signalized crossing and important component and one to Poplar that utilizes Leverett. We wanted to be very mindful of the interaction of these types of vehicles with traffic, pedestrians, bicyclists as well. And so we worked with the university to find times that would not impact Razorback Transit routes. And we can see the routes in a different form here.
 The northern route utilizing Leverett to get to the Poplar area and the southern route utilizing the signalized crossing at Hill. As Councilmember Smith brought up at the agenda session, these routes would be allowed any Sunday or May 11th through August 24th. This is important because this is the main one of the main transit lines for Razorback Transit to get students to the University of Arkansas and we and the applicant did not we wanted to ensure we did not inhibit those lines.
 I did want to bring up this ordinance does not allow for the legal consumption of alcohol by patrons on it. That would only be permissible if it was in a designated entertainment district whose rules did allow for that to take place.
 Again, we don't plan on issuing any lightens until the CDC and the Arkansas Department of Health state that it is safe to do so. And I'm also excited for the council to meet someone I have had the privilege of working with for several months on this, a local entrepreneur, Amber Sinclair, or E-meet you tonight. We'll be happy to answer any questions and the noise ordinance per council member Marshall's point is on the agenda later tonight. Thank you. Okay, do we have any questions for Deb? Thank you, Deb. Okay.
 Let's get some public comment. All right, on the amended ordinance. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by a majority vote, gives you more time. Or if the City Council asks questions for you, stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us from the public on this? Mayor, I see Amber Sinclair is on the line. Okay. Amber, would you like to address us?
 Here we go. Sorry. Yes, please. Okay. Am I allowed to have the video on? I'm sorry. Or is it just the picture? Well, all I see is a little bitty picture right now. Okay. I don't know if there's a way to change it. But okay. So hi, my name is Amber Sinclair. I believe the address that you have on file might be under 729 West Beck in Fayetteville.
 I just wanted to give a special thank you to Devin and Blake Pennington for working on all of this once I finally reached out to them. And I want to thank the City Council for the opportunity to speak on this. I do want to say that I support this ordinance update. I think it will be a great opportunity.
 great asset to bring to Fayetteville something different that we haven't seen before that provides, you know a different experience In a way to see Fayetteville and what I know I enjoy and what other people enjoy that the city has to offer Okay. Thank you. We also like to addresses. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council We're on the second reading council. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second. I
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to enact Article 10, Pedal Carriages, into Chapter 117, Vehicle-Related Businesses.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, I want to thank Devin for all his work and thank Blake also for his work on this. They've done some really great work. I look forward to seeing this stadium. I think it'll be really, really a great addition to the city. So having said that, Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much.
 number two an ordinance rezone that property inscribed was only petitioned rzn 20-6984 for approximately 2.8 acres located at 2160 north crossover road from c1 neighborhood commercial and ro residential office to cs community services and from rsf4 residential single family family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general
 i'll entertain a motion to go to the second mayor before we do that as you remember this was amended at the last meeting but not in exact wording so let me go ahead and read the body here it's pretty short this will be the second reading
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from C1 Neighborhood Commercial and RO Residential Office to CS Community Services, and from RSF4 Residential Single Family 40 N.P. to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Section two that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. And I'll also note that, of course, the exhibits had to be changed after the motion that was approved at the last meeting by the City Council. So now the entire amount of property is in there and there's no longer that gap. Okay. Governor, do you have this one?
 Yes, Mayor, good evening. I don't have anything to add. Kit explained the fact that we have changed the map exhibit and we've done a new legal description to include the area of your amendment two weeks ago. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Jargeson is here, the applicant, if you have questions for him. Okay. Does the applicant wish to say something to the council?
 okay um does city council have any questions for the applicant or dart okay well let's move it on some public comment then all right everybody gets one turn to speak there's a five minute limit unless city council by a majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who from the public would like to address us on this
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second. I saw Sloan's name first, so I guess. He did a second. He'll be the second. All right. So we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Brown.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-6984 for approximately 2.8 acres located at 2160 North Crossover Road from C1 Neighborhood Commercial and RO Residential Office to CS Community Services and from RSF4 Residential Single Family, 40 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. What final comments do we have from the council?
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. The next order of business we have tonight is a public hearing.
 a resolution authorized the city attorney to seek combination and possession of certain lands owned by tracy gaddy mays needed for the zion road construction project chris i believe you have this
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Zion Road is a project that's in the 2019 bond program. We are nearing being ready to bid the project and move forward with construction. As a matter of fact, some of the utility relocation work, Ozarks Electric is out there.
 over the last few days has begun some of the work to get out of the way in advance of the project moving forward. We have one piece of property that we've not been able to acquire for a right of way on the project. It is owned by Tracy Mays. As I noted in our agenda session, I feel like we're really close to negotiating a settlement on this and so we may not need,
 this may not need to use this authorization to move forward with filing the condemnation paperwork. But just for the council's benefit, if we do proceed with that, the city attorney files a petition with the court, and we typically are granted an order of possession, which then allows us to the engineering and construction to move forward with
 while the city attorney continues to negotiate with the property owner. Ultimately, if we can't negotiate, then it would end up being decided by the court as to what the compensation is. But this is just to authorize the filing of that condemnation action to give us the order of possession. We'll deposit the appropriate amount of money based on the appraisal.
 and then we'll be able to continue on with the project. So that's the request here. Again, we hope that that won't be necessary, but this does allow us to have that flexibility. And Mayor, I did wanna let you know that the property owner is in virtual attendance and may want to speak. So just wanna make sure you provide that opportunity. Okay.
 um would the owner like to speak to the council miss mays is on the line okay okay go ahead okay um miss mays can you unmute yourself and then you can speak can you hear me now yes yes sir yes
 Thank you. I've been a resident in Fayetteville my whole life, pretty much, in that I have established my ground here in Fayetteville, and these trees are so beautiful. They are so awesome. They're so beautiful, and I would gladly provide a sidewalk where people can just walk through, but you're going to chop out over three-fourths of my whole yard.
 And I'm trying to start my business back up in my house, my residence, because I went through all the ropes to do that. And it's a neighborhood services. So I'm trying to start. What is this going to do to my business? How are we going to put cars in there or be able to pull out and in? It's going to chop my yard unbelievably.
 and take out all my trees. Okay, Ms. Mays, do you have anything else? No, sir. Okay, what questions do we have for Ms. Mays? Let me just reiterate what Chris Brown said. This is Kit Williams. I'm the city attorney, Ms. Mays. Even though we will get, I hope, authority to do a condemnation case if we have to, we still want to negotiate with you and try to get
 As good a settlement for everybody as we can, we'll listen to your concerns. I'm sure that we already have, but we'll listen to them again. And we'll do everything we can to resolve this without actually having to go to court. That's certainly not our goal, but the project will need to move forward. And if we can't get an agreement, then we will have to get an immediate order of possession and then let the jury decide, if necessary, what the actual agreement
 monetary costs will be. But our first goal is to try to settle this with you and we'll continue to work with you to try to do that through our office as well as through the city engineer. So we'll be speaking with you about this in the future. Thank you. Yes, sir. So you're threatening condemnation with me? You're gonna condemn my property that I have had possession of, that I raised my kids in?
 you're going to take out my whole front yard and all the shade that it provided raise my electricity bills and i am all for the progress of fayetteville believe me i am a fayetteville girl okay what questions does the council have mayor i have a question for chris
 As I'm looking through the maps and the surrounding area, all of the right-of-ways up to the, or sorry, all the property lines up to the right-of-way, it's kind of sawtoothed through there. So I know y'all have been working hard to get acquisition on lots of properties. Is that reflected in our maps already? Or are we looking at old, I'm just trying to get a sense of the surrounding area and the flow of the whole project?
 Yeah, so the, and I'll see if I can share my screen here and show you, give you a little bit of a point of reference. Thank you. Let's see here. It's pulled up earlier. Well, it's not showing me the window that I'm looking for. Sorry, I've got too many windows open. So this picture here is probably the best picture.
 picture of what you can see. So we've been working on this project for multiple years because it was a previous bond project. We had some of the acquisition completed in previous years. The curve that you see here is
 is being flattened because it's kind of a sharp curve. So unfortunately what's happening on Ms. Gaddy's property is that that curve is flattening across and coming into the yard a little ways. So the black line that you see, can you see my cursor here moving? No. Yeah.
 So the black line you see here is existing right away that was previously acquired. So that right away is essentially going to be cutting across starting at this point and coming somewhere down in this area. It's basically about the same width all the way across. So from here down to about this location is the right away acquisition. This picture shows you a view of what that looks like.
 what that looks like. This is from about the center line of the road here, so it's about 35 feet. That's the best picture they've had. I wish we had the actual right-of-way shown on this particular drawing.
 um but that's a that's a depiction of what will be happening and there are some trees in the front yard that are impacted uh but that again that's the alignment of the road that's that's necessary to to flatten that curve and make for a safer transition down the hill and when you take this into account with whatever you've got across the street or will get across the street what's the total right-of-way width that you're shooting for it's it's variable but it's typically going to be
 about um this is 35 feet so we've got probably about 70 feet of right-of-way typically in this area okay and my quick math on your cross sections is about a 58 foot cross section so i see for the um for typical section one
 Right. We're, we're, this is, this is kind of a transition section. The previous. What I was afraid of. Yeah. The previous section is quite a bit wider and we are starting to transition down in that area. So there's, there's a little bit more right of way necessary across this property. Just, just the way.
 the transition works and the curve and kind of connecting the old and the new layouts that we had from the previous version of the plans. Okay thank you for the little tour of the project there. Sure. How much of a driveway will she have left
 I don't have specific numbers. What we have been trying to negotiate, one of the, I think, the sticking points that we haven't quite worked out is we were going to add some driveway, a turnaround on the driveway to allow her to.
 to have some more space, essentially widening the driveway on the property to allow some turnaround space because she is losing some driveway length. And again, I don't have the specifics of that dimensions or anything like that that I can give you specifically, but that is something that we've been trying to negotiate to make sure she can still operate the way she would like to on the property.
 Is there a current business there? I don't know the answer to that question. Okay, I guess this would be a kit question. I met both of y'all. Can we table this for two weeks to get some of these questions answered? Or are we running into a time frame?
 No, I think two weeks would be perfectly adequate. If you'd like some more information, we can work on this exhibit to add the actual right-of-way, show some additional dimensions on here, show you some of the proposed driveway amendments that we've been working with, that sort of thing. If that would help you in making your decision, we can certainly work on that.
 I'll definitely be supporting tabling this for two weeks after everyone else is done talking. Other questions do we have in the council? Yeah, I have a question. As part of the negotiations, Chris, is there, have you guys spoken about trees and if we take certain trees off, are trees being replaced and could that be part of the visuals for next week as well?
 Sure, we do intend to replace trees, place trees in the green space along the roadway. So that will be part of the project. What we typically do is we essentially just purchase trees. We negotiate the value of those trees and pay the property owner for lost trees. That allows them to replant trees however they would like.
 or just take the cash and do other things with it or whatever they want to do. It kind of keeps us out of having to plant trees on private property and then maintain them and that sort of thing. So we typically just try to come up with a value and make an offer based on that. And it's a negotiation. It's a case-by-case with each project.
 And we could, I could, I could give you some more detail on exactly what we've offered and what the, what the amounts are for the trees as well, if you'd like.
 Yeah, that would be great. That way we can understand how many trees are going to be taken out. It looks like maybe, is this right if I connect the black line from the west of the property to the black line on the east of the property, just straight? That we're looking at that triangle there? Well, it's going to be, there actually will be, I think, a little bit of a jog. I think once we...
 add a little bit to this drawing you'll be able to see that a little bit better but it will not I don't think it will be connecting to the black line on the on the east side it'll actually be a little bit further to the south than what's shown there. Okay great thanks yeah that that visual will be helpful. Thank you. One of the questions do we have
 Chris, while you're collecting exhibit modifications, I'm going to be real specific here. On your survey exhibit, it doesn't have the house for context, which makes it hard to know exactly where those lines are when you compare it to a satellite image. And just for the broader project context, I noticed that there's also a large notch of right-of-way that's not complete or not as wide as everything else.
 to the north east and I'd like to know where that is in your process if it's um if that's something that you're still working on or if you've already got what you want up there just as you're looking to fill out the context of the whole project that sure yeah I think that's
 Yeah, what you're seeing here is right-of-way from our GIS, so that is existing right-of-way. It may not be updated to show rights-of-way that we've acquired as part of this project, so we'll show the proposed right-of-way. Once we get everything acquired, what the proposed right-of-way will look like.
 So yeah, hopefully it may take a couple of exhibits, but hopefully we'll be able to see a little more clearer picture about what the overall right-of-way acquisition is in the area. Any other questions? Let's take some public comment.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. It's five minute time limit. Unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if the city council has questions for you, stay on the topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us from the public audience? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I understand there was, Sloan, you were gonna make a motion to table
 yeah i moved to table this for two weeks second well the motion is second to table it for two weeks uh it was who's the sec who was the seconder on that i was mayor okay all right here would you please call the rope smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes kenyon yes petty petty yes scroggen yes
 Bench? Yes. Turn? Yes. Okay, thank you all. We'll table this for two weeks. Okay, let's go on to new business. Number one, a resolution to extend the temporary extraordinary powers granted to Mayor Jordan in Ordinance 6292 from April
 29 2020 until june 2nd 2020. mayor with your authority i brought this to the city council uh this was there's a clause in ordinance 6292 that would terminate the extraordinary powers on april 29th unless by resolution the city council extends them
 so this would be the resolution that you could use to extend the powers that you granted to mayor jordan until june 2nd 2020. okay and to add on to that statement council we said june the second if this thing uh um starts to uh decrease uh before then then i will be the first one to come back and
 in the emergency power. So this is until June the 2nd from some of the numbers that we saw today. It could go on a while. So I don't know how long that will be. We'll be happy to take any questions from you. Then we'll take public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic.
 five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address we'd like to address this from public okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council or what discussion do we have okay i move we take this to the second reading approve the resolution oh i move that we approve this resolution second
 we have a motion second to pass the resolution all right any final comments from the council yes mayor i think i've already explained my thoughts on on the policy here and uh i don't want to well i i share your optimism that this might be something we could lift sooner than june 2nd but i'm i'm concerned that this is something that we will be back on june 2nd to extend for another month after that
 potentially longer and it's a it's going to depend on how the nation responds and continues to to react and responsibly whether or not we end this sooner or whether it's going to come back and linger with us for a while and I don't want a no vote on what I think is an overextended policy to in any way reflect
 I know that you have a lack of confidence in you. It's an honor to, well, normally to sit up there with you and now an honor to look at you through my screen. And I, again, I wanna reiterate that I can't imagine a better person to be leading us through this even while I disagree with continuing this now that we do have a functioning process back in place. Thank you, Kyle. Any other comments? Mayor Mitch, please call the roll. Smith? No.
 Gutierrez yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk yes all right thank you all very much I hope this ends soon all right number two from resolution to amend resolution 33-20 to
 reduce the amount of reappropriations to the 2020 budget by $4,608,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Paul, I believe you have this one. I do, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The Arkansas statutes do not allow multi-year budgeting. Therefore, the 2019 budget ends in 2019. To carry on grant projects upon completion,
 on projects, CIP that isn't completed. We amend the budget and as the council will recall, on January 2nd, we amended the 2020 budget to provide for those uncompleted projects. However, even though the budget is dead for 2019, we are still paying bills and obligations that were completed prior to the end of 2019 and beyond.
 into 2020. So for generally accepted accounting principles, I need to book those expenses to the 2019 budget.
 Therefore, the 2019 budget is increased during that period. We do not need the money in the 2020 budget. So this amends those projects that we had anticipated would be necessary to carry forward that have been completed. Therefore, we're requesting to reduce the budget by $4.6 million. If we don't do that,
 We have more in the budget than we have resources to expand. And therefore we have the request to reduce the budget and get that into sync with where we ended at the end of fiscal 2019. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paula? Okay. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute time limit.
 unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to address this from the public on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes to council i move we approve the resolution second we have mostly second passed the resolution any final comments from the council all right care which please call the roll smith
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you very much, Council. Number three, a resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Engineering Service Agreement with Hopkins Square Engineers Incorporated.
 in the amount of $46,680 for additional conceptual drainage design services associated with the project to alleviate flooding near the North College Avenue East Sunbridge Drive intersection associated and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 drainage bond project. It's one of our bond projects. Chris? Yes, thank you Mayor. I'm going to share my screen again.
 just to help you understand what the location is that we're talking about. Can everybody see this exhibit? Yes. Yes, I can. Okay. So this is College Avenue along here. This is Sunbridge.
 So we've got some flooding. These buildings here on the north side of Sunbridge have flooded. We also had some of these houses over here in Sunbridge Villas that flooded. So the original analysis was to look at some improvements
 through this area and then look at this vacant property for some detention that would hopefully mitigate the downstream flooding. However, that review indicated this area wasn't really big enough to to make that work so this proposed
 design effort is to analyze a route that would take this drainage down here in a pipe And end up in the backside of the greens apartments into these detention ponds here So to kind of go around this drainage system, so that's the analysis. It's that that's proposed Once that analysis is done. We'll have some our engineer will have recommendations for a
 a final solution and then we'll be ready to go into final design so we're really just trying to do this step by step to try to try to analyze the different options and come up with concepts and again once that's once that's done they'll be making recommendations to go to final design so this this contract amendment is to do the scope of work as you see here okay what questions do we have from the council on this okay
 let's take some public comment all right everybody gets one turn to speak there's five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to address us from the public on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council this is a resolution right yes i move we pass the resolution second we have a motion the second to pass the resolution
 Any final comments from the council? I will say this. I get a lot of calls from this area when we have a lot of rain, particularly in the spring, sometimes in the fall. It floods really bad. This is an area that I'm thrilled we're getting. Any other final comments? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number four. Number four.
 an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve the emergency purchase of two replacement bearings for the terminal dryer from craft bearing company incorporated for the biosolids management site in the total amount of 36 505 dollars and 60 cents plus applicable taxes and freight charges
 Whereas on April 6, 2020, the thermal dryer went out of service due to a failed bearing. And whereas Craft Bearing Company Incorporated has a replacement bearing in stock, and it is critical this part be purchased and installed as soon as possible. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the city council or the city of fable arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a purchase of two replacement bearings from craft bearing company incorporated in the amount of thirty six thousand five hundred and five dollars and sixty cents plus any applicable taxes and freight charges okay tim i believe you had this one
 Thank you, Mayor. The at the BMS, the solar houses and the thermal dryer are a tandem process that reduce the daily solids that we get by 85 percent, which creates a beneficial fertilizer. The drying process saves the city's significant landfill cost and allows us to reuse it in the biosolids material. The thermal dryer experienced a bearing failure on April the 6th.
 Anytime that the thermal dryer is out, solids have to be sent to the landfill. A replacement is available with craft bearing and we're getting two bearings because on this long shaft, if you've got a fresh one, you've got to replace the other at the same time. The cost is $36,505.60 plus taxes and freight.
 It will be installed in-house and there's enough money in the Water Sewer Fund to cover this cost. We are requesting to waive competitive bidding and perform an emergency purchase. We did present this to the Water Sewer Committee on March the 14th as an informational item since it was already on the agenda. Okay, all right. What questions do we have for the City Council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak it's five minute time limit unless the City Council by majority vote gives you more time or if the City Council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who from the public would like to address us on this okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council this is an ordinance council I move we suspend the board's agenda to the second reading second
 Okay, we've got a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Here, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve the emergency purchase of two replacement bearings for the thermal dryer from Kraft Bearing Company, Inc. for the biosolids management site in the total amount of $36,505.60 plus applicable taxes and frank charges. Moves to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith. Second.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve the emergency purchase of two replacement bearings for the thermal dryer from Craft Bearing Company Incorporated for the biosolids management site in the total amount of $36,505.60 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Please call the roll. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-714 for approximately 0.27 acres located at 1324 West Mount Comfort Road from RSF 4 residential single family for units per acre to the RIU residential intermediate urban kit. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF IV, residential single family, four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Section two, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one.
 okay garner i believe you have this garner are you with us garner unmute your mic well what shall we talk about council we're sending a runner down now
 I planted some tomatoes today. Did you? Did you? That's good. That's good. I'm putting together my square foot garden. That's good. Garner, maybe if you unshared your screen and reactivated your mic. Thank you, Susan. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. Can you hear me now? How's your garden going, Garner? My garden's pretty good. That's good. Yeah. I'm going to try again to share this screen.
 So, okay. Did I succeed? Yes, you did. So Mayor and Council, this request is between Garland Avenue and Lewis Field, and it's between Hendrick Street and Mount Comfort Road. It's a narrow 50-foot wide lot, 300-foot wide long. It actually is a historic double frontage lot.
 And it's occupied by a small house that has an address on Mount Comfort Road. So the surrounding zoning is RSF4, as you can see, and across the street at Mount Comfort there is RMF24 zoning. The adopted plans designate this as a future residential neighborhood continuing the, this neighborhood was developed post-war, I believe, mostly.
 small houses on wide variety of lot sizes so in a sense the existing lot size variety reflects the plan's goal but plan also recommends increased density where it's appropriate issues that were identified at the planning commission hearing in the stat and the staff's report
 The setbacks, surrounding setbacks are 20 to 60 feet front yard. Lot sizes are from half acre to very small lots. Land uses are predominantly single family, although there is also a family across the street, a vacant lot. Another issue was, are there alternatives to the RIU, which has some issues with setbacks and lot sizes?
 The Planning Commission recommended approval of the RRU zoning. Staff recommends denial but would support RSF8. And I'll go back and show you where you approved RSF8 earlier, I think late last year, your member on Henry Street. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe,
 Mr. Blake Jorgensen is the applicant, and I think he's online. Blake, do you want to address this? Yes, sir. Good evening. How are you all doing? Can you hear me? Yeah, we can. Good deal. Yes, as Garner has indicated, this property is obviously kind of an odd lot that has frontage on both streets. The main objective is to get a zoning that would allow a lot split. Currently under RSF 4.0.
 it would not meet the minimum lot width or lot square footage. So, you know, the options were basically go to a board of adjustments or go for a rezoning. And the, and part of this, I'm going to try to keep this presentation more or less an open conversation, but
 the RRU seemed to be optimal to both sides of the frontage on Hendricks and Mount Comfort. And I do believe staff, just so that we're clear, did support RRU on the Mount Comfort, but was hesitant on Hendricks. And so I don't want it to be, I guess, portrayed that in my past dealings that RSFA was the only option for both zoning types, right?
 I'm mostly intrigued by the R.I.U. This follows a pattern of zonings that the council's passed. I try to include exhibit as a presentation. I think it's just six or so properties ranging from far out on the western side of town to properties that are within a mile of this. I think R.I.U. is a newer zoning, so the city council's familiar with it, but
 Initially, there's not been a lot developed under this zoning. I do think it's optimal for this area. I do think it meets the 2040 goals. I don't want to go overboard on my presentation. I'd rather just have a conversation with council. I know it's not the typical standards where we're face-to-face and we can dialogue a bit easier, but I'll leave it at that and try to answer more questions you may have.
 Okay, what questions does the council have for the corner or the app I Have a question for the applicant
 This is Theresa. So my understanding is that if you are able to get the R.I.U., that zoning designation, that you'll be able to increase your density to four unrelated people per house, as opposed to the RSF8, which only allows three unrelated people to share a house. Is that part of the reason why you're advocating for R.I.U.?
 uh can you hear me yes yes that's a great question i was um that was part of my dialogue with plenty commission is the fact that the reality is i want to build a four-bedroom home i don't want to discriminate who i rent to uh it could be a single family that has you know kids going to school but if you know some college kids did want to occupy the space i didn't want to reject them based on the limitations uh
 And that's just, that goes for all my properties. I just don't want to, you know, I, I can't go out there and say, no, I'm, you know, I understand the city policy and the city goals, but,
 Yeah, I'm going to build a, my goal is to build a four bedroom home, whether that's rented to a family or potentially some college kids. I just want to have the opportunity to do that by right, as opposed to, I think everyone understands around town. This is going on all around where you are seeing residents occupied by college students that may be unrelated. And I just...
 simply by right, I want that opportunity so that I don't have to discriminate. Okay, thank you. I have no more questions. This is Mark Kenyon, and I do have a question or an observation. Let me put it that way. I think in these neighborhoods that are established, just because you say it goes on all the time anyway doesn't make it right. And it does impact the quality of the established neighborhood. So
 The neighbors, I think, that I've heard from feel like this is just another dormitory, an unsupervised dormitory. And that's what we do see in a lot of established neighborhoods. So any way you look at it, it's bound to turn into one of these. And I think it's exactly why a lot of people look at the RIU. And so I could not support this in a neighborhood unless I heard a compelling argument.
 i think that the neighborhood wants to try to protect the integrity of the neighborhood as it is and i certainly advocate that what are the questions you have council i have a question for it was going to be for garner and the applicant but i think
 The applicant referred to this and Garner, refresh my memory. I think I asked what your staff recommendation would be on splitting it like you mentioned to RAU on Mount Comfort and RSF 8 on Hendrix. And did you prefer to skip the hypothetical in favor of a more master planned approach to the neighborhood? That is correct.
 I do think it is on RMF 24 across the street, but immediately to the west is RSF 4, immediately to the east. We are anticipating additional requests for RIU. I think it's one of those neighborhoods, it's really kind of a gem in a sense, because it's got a variety of housing types and it is relatively affordable.
 and it is real close in and it has amenities and it's about to get more with the trail construction so i think it would be high on our list for a broader look so then for mr jorgensen staff won't give me a recommendation but it sounded like you were interested in considering a split between the two uh doing one on one street and being open to rsf8 on the hendrick side
 Yes, I'm not opposed to that. I want to address two issues. Well, the hard part about this is, well, typically bill of assurances, this, you know, those kinds of things are speculation, but you know, we do have something submitted that's, you know, public document that the other properties along this street have submitted for an RRU rezoning. I'm in conversation, basically there's
 And I'm not trying to disagree with Mark at all. That, yes, there is a few people within the area. And, you know, it depends on which way you define the neighborhood. Is it Mount Comfort? Is it Hendrick Street? Or is it Markham? And if it's Markham, you know, or it's not Markham, what's the one to the north? Maxwell. Maxwell.
 Is that correct? Yeah. You know, and I understand that the majority of the people within Maxwell have apprehension, but I also am part of an email chain that where the on Hendrick Street, which is the point of contention here, I want to say 70 to 80 percent is owned by.
 three people. And I'm the smallest percentage of that, but the bigger owner of the rest of the property, Andrew Marks has submitted for rezoning the same thing, RIU. And yes, it is, it's hard to say, you know, the bullet point of the historical fact.
 this which neighborhood is it mount comfort that's changing is it hendrix hendrix is going to change it is owned by a few people they are all in the mode and mindset
 to redevelop this neighborhood and we want to do it right. We want to do it the best thing for the city. And I'll go back to why was RIU approved anywhere from far out west side of town to a couple blocks to the east. You're talking about something as prestigious as Pratt Place up there. I mean, I feel like it shouldn't be a villain zoning. It's a zoning type that
 It supported the majority areas. However, Hendrick Street has this asterisk that is kind of up in the air. What do we do with it? Well, I hope what we do with it is redevelop it in a, you know, natural pattern that fits in with Fayetteville. And this is just the first request of several more properties down the pipeline that you're going to see. I mean, the RSF-8 that was approved.
 was not approved by the applicant, that wasn't their first pick. And my understanding is they're going to be coming back with the same request. So I really do want to have a conversation what's wrong with RIU. It gives you the opportunity to,
 build traditional town form with some ADUs. I'm not saying that everyone's going to do an ADU, but that is my intention because that's a lacking area. And I think it's a good way to make an ADU fit within this area. So I'd actually like to answer that if I can, because I don't think there's anything wrong with RIU. I think it's one of my favorite zoning types because it's flexible. But in this neighborhood, we do have to look at
 I don't know how big a change that would be. Because when we looked at the other recent Hendricks rezoning that Garner mentioned, it was asking to go to RSF8. And I voted for that, but it was a razor's edge. I was not sure how I was going to vote on even that, going from RSF4 to RSF8 in that circumstance, until it came right down to the end. RIU is way past that line for me for this neighborhood.
 So I understand the appeal of it and building four bedroom houses because you can definitely Economize Your scale on that. I'm curious what what your estimate is for rent on a four bedroom house. I
 A four-bedroom house, I mean, it ranges anywhere from $1,600 to $2,000. But it's not the fact that you're building four beds to rent four beds. I mean, it's a prototype to where you want to rent to a multitude of people. I don't want it to be college kids. I mean, you know, I'm not saying – I don't want it to be exclusive. But as soon as you take that out of the equation, I could develop it, sell it, and then someone rents those four beds –
 unrelated people. I think that's wrong to do that
 when I'm being blatantly honest, like, hey, we wanna build the prototype of four bedrooms because it's an option, should we do it by right? But it's not, it's much more, I understand that the context of this is how does the rest of the street look? Well, you're about to, I mean, I have no problem. I will say this, and I said it at Planning Commission, I'm not in a hurry, I don't mind tabling this, but you're about to see the rest of the neighborhood
 being requesting the same thing. The RSF8 that was approved, they want to go to RRU. The rest of the thing that was submitted last week, they want to go to RRU because it makes sense. It's what, it just, it fits. And I know it sounds like it doesn't because you have homes that are 60, 70 years old, but those are going to be replaced at some point. So if I'm looking down
 It ranges from 720 square foot houses up to 1200 square foot. There's a couple of 1600 square foot houses in there, but even those look like they are mostly three bedroom and under.
 I'm just concerned about that being too much, too fast for a neighborhood like this. And it would, you're right, it's going to change, but that would determine the type of change. If you were, this is where I'm going to differ from some of the folks who've already asked questions.
 If you were asking to put multiple smaller houses on there, I would probably be lining up right behind you. But you're looking at a product for an affordable neighborhood that's going to be a completely different price market. And I think that's the kind of neighborhood change that makes me nervous. Harry, this is Garner.
 I think the applicant said that he was in favor of ADUs. I know the council realizes that's associated with a use and not a district. If you have a single family home, you can do an ADU in RSF4 or RSF8 or RIU or any of the residential districts.
 Have a comment there was a mention of mr. Marks that owns the property the last time we had a zoning discussion on this I believe that he approached us and said he did not Intend to go RIU and to develop this and until I hear from him I'm gonna have to take his word that he meant that when he was in front of us unless I'm mistaken so to make a presumption that
 that i don't know much when that changed i can't use that as a valid argument okay all right whatever what what other questions do we have are comments from the council this thing is turning into more of a debate between members of the council mr jordan i would like to move this along
 My thinking on this is this much discussion. I think the thing needs to probably be left on first reading and we pick it up in two weeks. What is, what's the thoughts council? I completely agree with that. I'd like to table it or leave it on the first reading if possible. We just leave it on the first reading. We'll pick it up in two weeks because I can see there's probably a little more discussion needs to go on between now and two weeks. So yeah,
 if everybody may or may ask one question you sure can this is a question for garner garner what's the infill score for the property uh i'll have to get that for you councilman petty uh i'm surprised you don't have it didn't staff staff included as part of their discussion when this memo was being written uh good point but i don't have it but i'll have it in two weeks okay if everybody's agreeable we will leave it right here has the public has the public been able to speak yet i'm sorry sloan you're absolutely right i've not done that
 okay let's take some public comment um everybody gets one turn at the mic you have a five minute limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to address this from the public okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 Is it agreeable to the council for this to wait for two weeks? If anybody is not in favor of that, just speak. Well, I have one thing I want to say before we go. I'm kind of worried that we keep attacking people and their occupation. We keep saying we don't want this specifically because we don't want students.
 We can talk about traffic circulation. We can talk about a lot of issues without specifically calling out occupations. I'm sure if somebody said, hey, I don't want this because I don't want people from Tyson working here, wink, wink, we would have kind of an uneasy feeling in our stomach. And I've actually had a client tell me that, and I chose to stop working with them. So I don't think that...
 attacking specifically students is that much different. Now, talking about having four unrelated people, talking about vehicle circulation and all of those, I think is perfectly fine. But I hope that we can stop talking about specific occupations. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments? We're going to leave it.
 Just to fill in that the infill score is seven. I'm not sure what the scale is, but it's seven according to the maps. Okay. So the score is seven. Any other comments? Okay. Let's move on to the next one. We'll pick this up in two weeks. Okay. Number six. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-77.
 for approximately 0.30 acres located at north of 540 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to DG Downtown General. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 at the city council the city of favor arcs are here by changes his own classification the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from i1 heavy commercial and light industrial to dg downtown general section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are here by amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay yes uh
 Mayor and Council, did I successfully share my screen? Can you see my screen? Okay. This is a real simple request. Perry Street, Gregg Avenue, West Street, there's a railroad track here. The Fayetteville's former development had some industrial uses along the railroad track, some industrial zoning that wasn't used yet.
 And it's now coming in for rezoning. You'll recall that last year you rezoned a similar property immediately to the South Street Downtown General. And the surrounding uses our zoning is,
 variety of zoning districts, RSF 7 and RO and downtown general and of course the arts cultural corridors immediately to the east. Adopted plans designated as city neighborhood area. It's just outside of the downtown planning area and encourages mixed use a variety of non-residential building types as well as residential uses.
 The biggest factor on this parcel is it is very difficult to develop and it's doubly difficult to develop under its industrial zoning because the industrial zoning triggers more extensive setbacks rear and side and front.
 So the downtown general eliminates that, but another barrier is the stream side setback penetrates this lot. But that said, planning commission staff recommend approval, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant, Mr. Albert Skiles, is on the line. Okay, Albert, you wanna speak to the council?
 Not there. Not there? Okay. What questions do we have from the City Council? Okay. Let's see if there's anybody from the public who wants to weigh in on this. Okay. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute time limit, unless the City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Or if the City Council has questions for you, stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first for the public?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's wishes the council? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7020 for approximately three-tenths of an acre located at north of 540 West Prairie Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to DG Downtown General. And so? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We'll motion the second to go to the third and final reading.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-7020 for approximately three-tenths of an acre located north of 540 West Prairie Street,
 From I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to DG Downtown General. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move on to number seven.
 nor industry zone that property described rezoning position rzn 20-7030 for approximately 2.0 acres located southeast of east hustle road and south river meadows from nsl neighborhood services limited to cas cs community services kit
 Peter ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. What kind of garb?
 Yes, Mayor. This property is located east of the White River, south of Huntsville Road in the Stonebrook area subdivision. The majority of the property is zoned RSF4 to the south, but there was a planned zoning district to add some mixed uses in the early years, which expired.
 And then there was a rezoning of that area into conventional districts. And this is almost at the housekeeping level because two districts that were used are not working together very well for service planning for this about three acre area. So as you can see,
 At that time, to reflect the expired planned zoning district, the districts of CS and Neighborhood Services Limited were chosen, and then Neighborhood Conservation. Planning Commission just approved the residential area for the Neighborhood Conservation area recently.
 And this request is to rezone the entire area community services rather than neighborhood services limited. As you'll recall, neighborhood services limited limits the building size to 3,000 square foot, which makes it hard to integrate the two uses the large area for site planning purposes.
 So the adopted plans, it's residential neighborhood area, encourages a wide variety of residential buildings and uses and issues adequate infrastructure. The planned zoning district did have a, had that taken care of. And then when it went to my right districts, a bill of assurance was associated with that rezoning request
 and the applicant is offering to retain that bill of assurance. It does volunteer to help with traffic signals on the highway when a traffic signal is warranted. So Planning Commission staff recommend approval with the bill of assurance. It has some other provisions in it also. Be happy to discuss those or answer any questions.
 The applicant I believe is here Blake Murray or I keep saying here hopefully he is online. Mr. Murray are you there? Yes can you hear me? Yes. Okay perfect. Hi my name is Blake Murray with ESI. I don't have a whole lot to add to what Mr. Stoll said about the property like he said it's more or less just a housekeeping issue trying to have a uniform zoning district for the remaining land along Huntsville Road.
 As you said, we already have a subdivision plan on the portion south of that and the remaining land was just to keep it uniform for the developer to develop it in the future. There's no current plan for what they want to do with that parcel at this time. Just a uniform zone. Okay, what questions do we have from the point from the council for the applicant or garner on this?
 I actually have a question, Mayor. Blake, you are offering a bill of assurance for this rezoning? I guess I was under the impression that it had to be carried forward with it. If it doesn't have to be, then obviously we'd prefer to not have that. But if that's what's needed to have the rezone, then that's what we're willing to do.
 My understanding is that the planning department, there already was a bill of assurance on this property, and the planning department wanted to keep the bill of assurance applicable to this property, and I don't know if they'd recommend approval without it. A bill of assurance is generally offered to the city or the city council in order to obtain the zoning that you request, but it must be a voluntary offer by the landowner.
 So I'm still waiting to hear whether this is a voluntary offer of this bill of assurance. Yes, sir. In that case, then the city council will need to amend the ordinance as originally read by the mayor and myself. I have the amended ordinance here, but in which all it does is is add the subject to the bill of assurance. But we would need an amendment from the city council to do that.
 I might add also, Mayor and Council, a problem with not having the bill of assurance is that it is attached to the remaining of the property. So you would have an island without the bill of assurance and then it would apply to the remaining properties. I think it would cause some problems with calculations and so forth on cost sharing. Can I go ahead and move to add the bill of assurance?
 Yes, you could. Okay, I move to add the bill of assurance. Second. We have a motion and a second to add the bill of assurance. Any discussion on that? Can you remind us exactly what's in the bill of assurance? I understand the governor might be able to explain this. Yes, I need to share the screen again. Yes. And can you all read that? You might have to read it.
 . . . . . . .
 Similarly, we'll share with drainage, offsite drainage improvement that may be needed. And the developer promises that there will be three points of ingress and egress, plus a stub out to the east. That may be somewhat of a mute point since the planning and development has already occurred. But those are the major points. Thank you.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second for the amendment, correct? Bill of Assurance, I'm sorry. Right. Amendment for the Bill of Assurance. Okay, any other discussion? Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Okay, we have amended the ordinance and now there's a go a second reading. Yeah Let me get some public comment, all right, let's take some public comment on this Alright, you get one turn to speak five-minute limit Unless City Council by majority vote gives you more time or it's City Council has questions for you. Stay on topic and
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who in the public would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. We're on the first reading. This is an ordinance. So what would you all like to do? I move that we amend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a couple of seconds to go to the second reading. Did you get that, Kara? Okay. Would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. And Council Mayor, since this was an amended ordinance, I'm going to go ahead and read it fully for the second time and just the title of it goes to third reading. Okay.
 Adornance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7030 for approximately two acres located southeast of East Huntsville Road and South River Meadows from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services, subject to a bill of assurance.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of properties on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from nsl neighborhood services limited to cs community services subject to the bill of assurance filed with ordinance number 5790 in the records of the washington county circuit clerk on september 9 2015 as instrument number 2015-000-25644 section 2 that the city council city of favor arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of favor will reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay
 Thank you, Kit. We're on the second reading. What's the wishes of the council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care to please call the roll. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7030 for approximately two acres located at southeast of East Huntsville Road and South River Meadows from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services subject to a bill of assurance. Do we have any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay thank you all very much. Number eight, an ordinance to amend 96.02 unreasonable excessive noise prohibited exceptions to extend the city's noise regulations to all vehicle related businesses.
 I wonder if the council would want to consider the amendment proposed by Council Member Marsh at the last meeting to include bicycles before I would read it and also include City Trail as one of the areas where the excessive noise would not be allowed. That way I could read the final language if that is the council's desire to amend the ordinance to include those terms.
 Sure. I would like to propose or the amendment. I have a unique perspective on the trail with it running through my backyard and I've noticed a significant increase in people using amplified sound on their bicycles.
 um riding by several times a day and there's multiple people doing that it can become quite a nuisance and so I would like to see us just make sure that our trails uh stay reasonably quiet and uh that you know nature is the predominant experience on our trails rather than amplified music um or uh preaching as as I've seen a lot of late or heard a lot of lately thank you
 So the amendment would basically be to include bikes on the city trails? Yes. Is that correct Sarah? Are we sure I got that right? Yes. Okay. Okay. So we have the amendment. What discussion do we have on the amendment? Oh do we need to second? Oh okay. Well yes. I'll second the motion. All right. The amendment would include bikes on trails. What do we have any discussion from the council on the amendment?
 I apologize. I'm looking for the text of the amendment. Is it, did we get that in email? I think Blake might have sent it out to you, but if not, I can go ahead and read it for you right now. I would like to read the amendment before I vote on it. Okay. The, uh,
 It's only changing Section E, which is the operative section. It says operating, it would say now, operating or causing to operate any sound amplification device on or from within any means of conveyance that is regulated by Chapter 117 vehicle-related businesses, whether motorized or not.
 or from any bicycle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 30 feet or more from the vehicle or bicycle whether in a street highway alley parking lot or driveway whether public or private property or on a city trail is prohibited and declared to be a noise disturbance in violation of this chapter that would be the proposed amendment
 So, Kit, to clarify, that was amplified sound? It wouldn't apply to somebody using their own voice or noisy children? No, it certainly says operating a sound amplified device. If they're not using that, then it's not going to be prohibited. Thank you. Okay. Any other discussion on the amendment from the council? Okay, let's get some public comment on the amendment.
 hmm everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who from the public would like to be first to speak to us about the amendment which basically is to amendment to include bikes on city tracks who'd like to be first from the public
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Is there any final comments from the council on the amendment before we vote? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin?
 Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. So Mr. Mayor, I will now read the body of the ordinance as amended.
 Whereas section 9605 of the city code which is limited to noise related to motor vehicles and motorcycles Provides that operating or causing to operate any sound amplification device from within a vehicle So if the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 30 feet or more from the vehicle Whether in a street a highway an alley parking lot or driveway whether public or private property is prohibited and declared to be a noise ordinance in violation of this chapter and
 Whereas the city code authorizes other means of conveyances to occupy the city streets such as pedicabs and horse-drawn carriages Which could also emanate noise that could disturb residents and businesses but that are not considered motor vehicles and whereas extending the prohibition on excessive sound amplification and
 To all vehicle related businesses regulated under Chapter 117 of the Fayetteville Code will help ensure the health and safety of Fayetteville residents, particularly within residential districts in which these vehicle related businesses may operate. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend Section 9602 by enacting a new Subsection E as shown below.
 Subsection E, quote, operating or causing to operate any sound amplification device on or from within any means of conveyance that is regulated by Chapter 117 vehicle-related businesses, whether motorized or not,
 or from any bicycle, so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 30 feet or more from the vehicle or bicycle, whether in a street, highway, alley, parking lot, driveway, or driveway, whether public or private property, or on a city trail, is prohibited and declared to be a noise disturbance in violation of this chapter. Okay. All right. Senator, do you have any other comments you want to make on the ordinance? No, thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 All right. Any questions from the city council on the amended ordinance? Oh, sorry. You popped up there, Mark. I apologize. All right. Then let's take some public comments. Okay. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute limit. Unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, stay on topic, no rude behavior, please give us your name and address. Who would like to be
 First to speak on the public input with council. Okay, so there's no public comment on the amended ordinance. So what's the wishes of the council here? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Brown.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Admonish to amend section 9602 unreasonable or excessive noise prohibited exceptions to extend the city's noise regulations to all vehicle related businesses. I'd like us to start the final reading.
 I'd actually like us to hold this because we made it, we made an amendment to the ordinance and I'm not sure the public has had enough time to know about that, to be informed about it. And if they have any problems with it or any thoughts on it, I'd like to give them the opportunity to share that with us next time. Okay. So is the council agreeable to holding this two weeks?
 If you're not, I guess you would make a motion to go to the third and final reading. Okay, then we will hold it on the third reading for two weeks. All right, thank you all. Number nine, a resolution to authorize an amendment to the 2019 Community Development Block Grant CDBG Action Plan to reflect CARES Act supplemental funding in the amount of $436,285. Yolanda, I believe you have this.
 Yes, Mayor. Bringing this resolution forward for approval so that we can go ahead and accept.
 the funding that was provided to assist with COVID-19. I have sent to you today and I think yesterday also combination one comments that we received to date. So you should have gotten that today. Yesterday, that was per Mr. Smith's request. Also yesterday, I developed an estimated breakout of costs as far as how many folks we could actually help
 with the rental and utility assistance. And that was sent to you yesterday based on that split out, we could help at least 133 folks and that's not duplication of services. Because the goal would be that over a period of time, individuals, some people might only need a month, some might need two, some might need four.
 and the percentage of assistance based on rent could vary also. So the numbers that were utilized were fair market rates, fair market rents, I'm sorry, for the area. So it's basically a projection of what is possible.
 in order to assist individuals that may have lost their financial situation because of COVID. Everything with this funding has to be a direct result of COVID-19 and we have to be able to document that. Do we have any questions? Questions do we have Belonda on this? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 okay everybody gets one one turn at the mic you have a five minute limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic don't rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to be first to speak to the council may i see angela belford up first okay all right angela your turn
 I would like to start by saying I have a quick question. Is this today's just accepting the money or is it also allocating the money? It's my understanding. Today is accepting the money. What we have out for public comment at this point are general funding categories. So we have a general funding category.
 not specific program or project funding. There will be a public meeting when the process as we develop the process for application, for award, we're gonna stick with our same process that we use for regular CDBG, but of course it will be greatly modified to bring us into a reasonable timeline and still meet our regs for HUD.
 Does that answer your question? Yes ma'am. Can I follow up with the second one which is to say that so just to clarify what I think I heard you say was that the city the your the department there in the city won't be actually doing the
 that won't be giving the funds to individuals, but yet organizations, nonprofits will apply for those funds. Is that what you're- Is that what I wanted to do? The housing and rental assistance will be an internal program. The funding for unsheltered homeless needs services and supplies, and the health assistance also needs services and supplies.
 that will be funding that will be available for entities in the community, non-profits that will be working with individuals that are low to moderate income, and then the unsheltered homeless, of course, specifically for unsheltered homeless.
 So if we want to comment about the rental assistance, is that the time we're supposed to comment now or right now we're just accepting the money and later we do? I'm so sorry if you already said that I got a little lost. No, today we're accepting the funding. What is out there for comment right now this week?
 is the general funding categories. So that means it'll come back to council for the general funding categories? It will come back to council for approval of a budget adjustment for those general funding categories. Okay, thank you. And then, oh, okay.
 Okay, so that being said, thank you Yolanda for leading the city on getting this in front of council so that we can accept this money. The way I understand it, the CDBG, we're required to move pretty quickly on that. I do have some comments on how those programs, how I hope to see them administered, but it sounds like I need to issue those through public comment first and then come back another time. So thank you so much for your leadership to
 get us this money accepted quickly. Thank you. Okay who else would like to address this? Okay. Yes Mr. Mayor we have Don Bennett who's raised his hand. Okay yes Don. Thank you Mayor Jordan and hello City Council. Thank you Yolanda for bringing this before the council.
 I'd just like to definitely recommend that the council does approve getting these funds. I do have some concerns about how the categories came about and how that process is actually going to play out. There hasn't been a lot of time to know about this and be aware of it. It's been very...
 short amount of time and I would just like to Know more about how that process is going to play out and My one of my concerns is that food is not mentioned in this it's it does says health needs and I just wanted to see how that how that relates
 In the health needs, the goal of the general categories is to give us flexibility. Within that needs, services and supplies, that opens it up quite a bit. The only true restriction and the reason that it's moving so quickly is because that's what HUD wants us to do.
 They want this to be in place and helping people as quickly as it can happen. And I can tell you that I am already getting calls for help. So I feel the urgency in the community for help.
 I also want to make sure that everybody understands that HUD is also allowing us to amend our current 2019 CDBG funds and push more money into COVID assistance.
 So I'm gonna work really hard to at least squeeze out another 100,000. That's my goal. I hope I can reach it. So there will be additional funding because I think what's gonna happen is as we move through this event, we're going to come up with different needs that we have. Now, the categories that I also heard you mentioned that how these came up,
 I have been in meetings with, there is a regional homeless work group. There is a COC COVID work group. There is a U of A COVID coordinating work group. Also Crystal Bridges has their teams pulled together. And I have heard from nonprofits in the community. So these are the needs that I'm hearing. And that's how these,
 categories were developed. And that's what HUD is asking of us, listen to what the community as a whole is saying, and that's how they were developed. Does that answer your question? Yes, thank you, Yolanda. I just wanna add that I definitely believe that after a phone call on the Fayetteville Ford food policy report,
 task force and the growth Fayetteville movement. And thank you again, Mayor, for the proclamation that puts a priority on food is that Marty Matlock from the University of Arkansas Resiliency Center, I think really,
 what we may be facing in the coming months. And that the fact in Fayetteville that 30% of restaurants that are closed will not reopen. And that number could possibly be 50%. And that the unemployment is gonna lead to a really great need for a lot of food distribution in Fayetteville.
 to make up for the fact that their families and Fayetteville, many more than the vulnerable population that already existed, will not have access to nutritious food. And I just called in and wanted to make sure that that was on everybody's mind as part of what addressing COVID-19 is about. Thank you.
 Mayor, I have a short follow-up for Mr. Bennett. Okay. I appreciate Yolanda's explanation there of how we're working for flexibility in the categories. Don, is there a category that you think is missing that would give us more flexibility? I know that we'll come back and talk about that later after the public comment, but since you're here, I wonder if there's something that you think we should be considering on the front end.
 Well, I think on the CARES Act, it's a 90-page document, but it definitely talks about distribution or delivery of food. And, you know, we – and I'm probably – I speak for Tricycle Farms, but I probably speak for several other nonprofits that are working in this too, and that our ability to continue to deliver food.
 We're hurting too. I mean, everything changed for us and our funding streams may be disrupted. There may be some new ones that take the place, but we're seeing an 85% increase across the country.
 And that's from Feeding America numbers. But we're seeing it locally with the nine nonprofits that we deliver to, that they're seeing new people every single day. And the demand for food is really high. And I believe that's because there is no safety net and people do not have money regardless of how much food are in the grocery stores. So I definitely think that this should be –
 part of the priority and I appreciate the housing and the other issues as well. So I don't want to discount those but I want to make sure that food is very much a priority and how we're going to deliver and take care of this expanded vulnerable population. Thanks. So this distribution and delivery I think is the phrase that I heard in there.
 Yes, distribution, delivery, and I'm sure storage capacities are going to be an issue. Maybe storage capacity comes in to structures. Yolanda, you might be able to answer this about the regular CDBG funding. Maybe that is an area that's more appropriate for that.
 Well, and that was one of the things that I shared at the Grove Fayetteville group that a lot of what I was hearing is overall assistance for individuals in need that may be in need, not so much because their jobs were affected by COVID or because they are in quarantine because of COVID, but because there will be a need for food.
 So, yes, the regular CDBG process, which begins the first week of August with the workshop, is great. I can tell you that I'm already working with Seeds That Feed. I've already provided them information. I will be working with them. They plan to apply.
 process we are here until that application process starts in August we can provide technical assistance we can review our application we are here to provide assistance to anyone that wants to apply now there is a process we have a prioritization committee that will that will continue that that prioritization committee will be used to
 for determining the funding for this COVID funding. We're just going to tighten that up, but applications are submitted. We wanna make sure that everybody gets to that level to be evaluated for prioritization. Then we just prioritize as a group and we have representation from fire, police, planning,
 I'm on that committee. There's a staff member from our staff that's on that committee. We prioritize all the projects and then we fund until the money's gone. And it's all based on need, because these are the people that are out there every day dealing with the challenges. Yeah, I would definitely. Wait a minute, Don. Really your time is up, unless the council has questions for you, then your time's up. Is there any other questions for Don?
 And I do see Melissa Terry up next. All right. Melissa, you're next. Hi. Can everybody hear me? Yep. Awesome. Thank you guys so much for being here. This is a very unique experience. I've actually been able to cook my supper while you guys were talking. So I appreciate you all and appreciate Yolanda for bringing this to the agenda. I think that my comments are really...
 pretty broad and brief in that, you know, my work primarily is in food policy research. And so, I tend to think about situations like this and meeting the moment with systems building and how can what we do now, um,
 serve as the triage for the situation that we're in, but also leave us stronger on the other side for a more resilient local food system or healthcare system or whatever the case may be.
 I think that I feel like that Kyle's question was really relevant in that perhaps it is appropriate to add a fourth bucket of funding to the emergency use of funds to include local food systems, because I will tell you that is in working with the.
 school district and a variety of other local nonprofits and then working with the state to get online snap make that happen that if anybody thinks that are already high numbers of food insecurity are not spiking directly because of coven
 then they're not very close to the ground of like what's happening in our community. And not buying groceries is a lot of times one of the first places that people cut when they are trying to make other ends meet. And I personally, I'm not on the board of Tri-Cycle or Seeds That Feed or whatever, but I...
 from my perspective and what I see them doing, they are first responders right now. They are the tricycle delivered to the University of Arkansas's full circle pantry, and they had a line down the street immediately to pick all that up. They're providing to St. James Baptist Church, who are building family food boxes that are going out the door lickety split. And to
 To Yolanda's point, yes, there's a base load of that that is consistent and we should always be working to reduce those numbers. But there is an emergency spike that is happening right now. And I feel like it would be an appropriate response to include as a fourth bucket, local food system response work, which is allowable per page 55 of the CDBG COVID-19 guidelines.
 And that's really like the only comment I have to make. I feel like that, again, just to piggyback on what Don Bennett was saying about the resiliency center, we have a great opportunity to tighten up our network, to build resiliency and be very transparent in our process about how these funds can be used and leveraged. The USDA actually just came out.
 with guidelines about working with HUD on the COVID funds and how that can piggyback with larger USDA food and nutrition services funds.
 And creating a very specific local food system resiliency bucket for these emergency funds. Not only can we meet the moment, but we also have created a bucket. And that gives us an opportunity as local leaders, city governments and community partners to continue adding resources to that bucket. And that's my comment. Thank you guys. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 All right, I will bring it back to the council. I move we adopt the resolution. Okay, we have a second? Second. Okay, the motion is second to pass the resolution. Is there any final comments on this? I have a question. I just want to be clear that we do have the ability within the framework we're adopting to go ahead and address these local food system responses.
 Yes, there is in the health services. Although I have to, I just want to clarify that there has to be a methodology to document that the people being served is a result, a direct result of COVID. So I just want to make sure that, yes, within that framework that we currently have, we have needs, services and supplies. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you.
 I also have a comment and I appreciate Yolanda that you're working super fast on this. Someone also sent me a page out of the requirements and it does list food delivery as one of the bucket possibilities.
 including grants, loans, financial assistance to stabilize, expand, micro enterprises, medical, cleaning, and other services that support home and health quarantine. So I don't know how we make, I understand the challenge of trying to figure out how does that relate directly to COVID, but since that funding does include that bucket, I'm hopeful that we can figure out how to make a requirement for that bucket.
 Okay, and I just want to make sure because I know that there's a section, those are general guidelines and if you look at the top heading, that's for economic assistance, because HUD hands out information for all city sizes. Some big cities are getting millions of dollars.
 we're looking at assistance to individuals. There's not a bucket for business assistance within our $436,000.
 Any other questions? Well, I guess, sorry. So I want to hear you right, Yolanda. What you're saying is that because we have our minimum group of funds, amount of funds that we're working with, we're trying to respond to the areas that you have heard the most from that you feel are
 you know, that you're hearing the most from. That way you can kind of focus those funds into those areas. Is that what you're saying? Right. Because a lot of that section, if you look at the top heading, it's talking about assistance to small businesses.
 and micro economies type situations which that's great and I'm trying to figure out how do we help these systems and we have a category that could fit in. We also have the ability to amend our 2019
 CDBG funding and define it as COVID. And these systems, if we're trying to build the systems, then they need to be looking at our regular CDBG funding, which will open up in August and get that rolling versus this that is specifically tied to only helping individuals that have had a challenge directly relating to COVID-19.
 Yep. Thanks for answering my question. The last comment I have is that I had a, I had a social media experience that, that was very good for me because, you know, from my experience of through this situation, I'm at home more, I'm working very, very a whole lot.
 on the digital area of teaching online and of course doing city council not the case for our hospitality workers and I made the very grave mistake of saying you know having my freshman 15 and that was a I really regret that in the sense that it was my mistake
 perspective that I saw that, that my, you know, experience is that I'm not moving around, it's not exercising as much, I'm still having resources, access to my food. So I guess just from my perspective, I would definitely like to make sure that
 If there's any way possible to make sure we can have that be added, I would really like that. That would make, you know, be able to reach back out to that person and say, hey, we are making opportunities for food as many as possible in our community. And if we're not able to do that with the funds, then I will feel...
 figure out and see what are the other ways that we're doing that or supporting or that we know of in the city where people can continue to access food resources. And that's all I have. Thank you, Yolanda. Appreciate your work. Okay, any other final comments? So the way I look at it is that, you know, we don't have a whole lot of money in this first go round. I mean, that 436,000, it doesn't seem like that, I mean,
 It's something, but it's, you know, when you talk about like, if someone's, I'm sorry, that's my dog over there making noise. But when you talk about like, we're working to help people stay in their homes or keep their apartments or pay their utilities and have, you know, have food to eat too. That money doesn't, you know, if you stretch it out over all those things, it doesn't seem like it's going to go very far. I mean,
 I don't know what we need to be looking at on this, but you know, it's, it's all needed, but I, and I know Yolanda, you said you're hoping to get some more money, uh,
 What was it, 100,000? Yeah, I'm hoping to pull another 100,000 out of our 2019 CDBG funding and actually label it or categorize it as COVID so that it can also move quickly. And then our regular CDBG funding for 2021, that will start in August.
 And then I'll also try, HUD will allow me to try and pull out of 2020 some funding. So I'll try out of the 2019 and the 2020 to come up with 100,000 if I can. And then that would be additional funding that we can use for other things. As we move forward, I know needs will arise because they currently are popping up daily.
 Well, thank you so much. And if there's anybody that can find that money, I think it's you. So thank you. Anybody else? To Sarah's point, this $400,000 and even the other $100,000, it's going to take both and a lot more than that.
 There's a lot of problems and a lot of expenses, and we're not gonna fix all of it with this. And it's important that we remember exactly what Sarah was talking about. As you start to divide it up and spread it around the community, if you're looking to make individual payments, you run out of people you can help real quick, and there's still a lot more people that need help.
 We look for systems that can be backstopped. That has, I think, the potential to help a lot more people with stability. And we're talking like it's going to be hard to justify COVID-related hardships. 22 million people in this country have declared unemployment in the last three weeks.
 I don't know what our local numbers are, but I suspect we're going to be able to find plenty of people who can attest to the impact that the COVID outbreak and the economic shutdown has had on them, that we're not going to struggle too hard to meet that requirement for CDBG.
 Okay, any other comments before we vote? Yeah. Moving forward, I would just like to see, I know that right now the emphasis is on addressing COVID-related needs, but I would like to see us prioritize spending this money that not only addresses the COVID-related needs now, but also builds capacity to continue to serve the community beyond this current crisis.
 And we've had such a struggle with food insecurity in our community, which is really being exacerbated right now with children being out of school, which is where a lot of them were accessing their meals. I know that Tri-Cycle Farms, which is a small business, they're serving over 1500 families per week. And so just making sure that we have the capacity or the opportunity to do that.
 the option to support that endeavor. And, you know, because the last thing I want people doing is getting out in the community, trying to earn money for groceries. I think we need to make sure that people can stay home and knowing that they're going to have the rent paid and they're able to access food are probably the two biggest factors in enabling people to make the right decision, make the safe decision for their families themselves and for our community. And so-
 So prioritizing food and rental assistance, I think is where we need to be looking with this money. Thank you. Okay, any other comments? Okay, Kara, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. All that concludes our business. Do we have any announcements? Yes, Mayor. Three announcements.
 We have some construction work that's getting ready to go on the Zion Road project, or at least utility work that precedes the construction work. And so the Ozarks Electric is relocating utility lines, and we are asking for motorists to please be cautious as they drive Zion Road. There will be some lane closures that will be announced by the utility company in the coming days. Also, we'll be...
 uh closing township road for some uh repaving between april 20th and may 1st and finally the long-awaited rescheduling for our um the bulky waste drop-offs that we had to cancel in the month of april um are now being rescheduled between
 Well, you know what? I thought I knew what I was going to tell you about that. I'm so sorry. I don't have a date for you. But I'm going to advertise our self-sort recycling drop-off sites. Happy Hollow Recycling Drop-Off Site, Marianne Orton, Boys and Girls Club, Locomotion Family Fun Park, Gary Hampton, and the Maple Athletic Club. I will be letting you all know about those rescheduled dates from the bulky waste cleanups later in the summer. That's all.
 Susan? Yes? Residents who may have had their bulky waste piled up and ready to go on that last one when it was canceled, can they bring that to the transfer station or do they need to hold on to that for a while? I'm gonna have to get back to you on that, Kyle. I don't know what the procedure is and I don't think there's anybody online right now that can answer that question. That's all right. Thank you. I'll get back to you. Thanks. Okay. Anything else?
 Well, thank you, Council, very much. We are adjourned.