I'd like to call the City Council meeting of April 20th, 2021 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Funch? Here. Turd? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Jones? Here. Kinnian? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which we stand, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, welcome, everyone. For those of you that are joining us by Zoom, I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. We have council members, city staff, and the public are participating in this meeting virtually and in person.
 participation is the utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including joining in person at City Hall joining virtually through zoom viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel if you're joining through zoom
 You must raise your virtual hand to request to speak during the public comment period. You can do this by clicking the raise hand option in Zoom online or by pressing star nine on your phone. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone. For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions.
 and in the search bar. If you're attending the meeting in person, you must sign up to speak by completing a public comment form. Forms can be found on the table outside of the chambers. I will take public comment from virtual attendees first to give in-person attendees enough time to line up to speak.
 Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item They may wish to address being open for public comment each speaker has one turn to speak Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. I
 amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote the public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes the City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote so
 Let us begin. The first order of business we have tonight is presentation of the Mayor's Environmental Stewardship Award to selected award recipients. And I'd like to read the following statement. This week is Earth Week and Thursday, April 22nd is the 51st celebration of Earth Day.
 in honor of earth day this year the federal environmental action committee has developed the inaugural environmental stewardship award program this award recognizes excellence in environmental stewardship demonstrated through sustainable practices programs or projects undertaken by federal community members non-profits businesses and educators the environmental action committee received nine applications and were impressed with
 by both the quality and diversity of the entities and individuals that were nominated. This made the selection process very difficult. Each of the three winners will receive an award similar to this trophy I'm holding up tonight. In the spirit of Earth Day and sustainability, the three trophies are old trophies that have been recycled for this new award. The only thing new on each trophy is the new plaque, which we have engraved with the name of the award winner.
 I would like to turn the award presentations for our three winners over to the Chief of Staff, Susan Norton. Susan. Thank you, Mayor. I have three different awardees, so I'd like to ask the Council and the audience to hold their applause until I've read all three. So I want to say thank you to the individuals, businesses, and industries that embrace and accelerate sustainable practices and environmental stewardship.
 Our community is made more resilient by individuals and organizations that institute sustainable practices, set high standards, and lead by example. These environmental stewardship awards are designed to recognize and thank these folks for their efforts and accomplishments. Tonight, we would like to honor the following award recipients. The 2021 Environmental Stewardship Award for an individual goes to Patty Irwin.
 Patty is an Arkansas native and a University of Arkansas graduate who has utilized her forestry knowledge and training to serve in numerous capacities in government, nonprofit, and business in Fayetteville and northwest Arkansas. Patty began her career as the City of Fayetteville's horticulturalist urban forester and worked to organize the city's first tree and landscape advisory board and the passage of the city's tree preservation and protection ordinance.
 Patty served as the state urban forestry coordinator with the Arkansas Forestry Commission for many years, developing and directing policy, implementing programs, facilitating partnerships, and providing educational outreach and workshops related to forestry. In recent years, Patty has continued working in consulting and research on a variety of subjects, including
 Forestry, pollution prevention, recycling and sustainable product life cycle, energy conservation, and sustainability and resiliency education. Thank you, Patty, for all that you've contributed to the community. Next, the Environmental Stewardship Award for Business, PacRat Outdoor Center.
 Pac-Rat Outdoor Center was opened in 1973 by Scott and Carolyn Crook, two self-described outdoorsy scientists who shared a passion for environmental conservation. When they began Pac-Rat, they committed to providing the best selection and the most experience by selling brands and equipment that were made to last, were repairable, and had a warranty.
 Throughout the years, PECRAT also instituted responsible and sustainable business practices such as resource reduction, reuse, and recycling. Sustainable building practices were top of mind when they constructed their new store in its current location in 2002.
 Using recycled wood and timber harvested after a forest fire, the entire building was constructed using salvaged materials. The building also has extensive natural lighting supplemented with LED lighting fixtures and produces 99% of its electricity through on-site solar panels.
 The PAC RAT employee team also volunteers in numerous cleanup events, recycling education events, and they're always willing to put on a pint night get together to support a local environmental organization or initiative. Congratulations and thank you very much to the PAC RAT team on all that you've accomplished and for being a community leader in environmental stewardship.
 Finally, the 2021 Environmental Stewardship Award for Industry, Arkansas Myriad. Arkansas Myriad is a Fayetteville-based company that began in 2003 designing, fabricating, and installing high-quality stainless steel equipment for industrial uses. When Arkansas Myriad relocated their manufacturing facilities to Fayetteville in 2020, they
 They began utilizing a 30-yard dumpster that would frequently overflow. The company realized that they were only recycling aluminum and steel, even though they consumed a lot of other materials that could be recycled.
 Upon realizing that a lot of the material that they were paying to throw away could be recycled, Arkansas Marriott reached out to the city's recycling division and other recycling companies and organizations, such as 4840 Solutions, Total Recycling, Rogers Iron and Metal, Prima, and the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District to help develop a recycling program for their business. Now, in addition to the stainless steel and aluminum industry.
 ARMI recycles mixed paper, plastics, one and two, cardboard, glass, carbon, wood, slag, selenide, HUMW plastic material, carbide, rubber, copper, and tungsten. Ultimately, the company has downsized to an eight-yard dumpster for their non-recyclable trash. Arkansas Marriott is continually researching ways they can improve and be a more sustainable and responsible producer.
 Congratulations and thank you to the whole Arkansas Myriad team for what you've accomplished and for being a community leader in your sustainable practices. The three award winners are joining us on Zoom and we'll have their awards delivered to them. Thank you again to our three award winners and the Environmental Action Committee, Fayetteville Environmental Action Committee for developing this award. And thank you everybody. Serves a round of applause. Congratulations all the award winners. Thank you all very much.
 Okay, the next order of business we have is the monthly finance report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is going to be a report on the month of February. As you may recall, I wasn't at the first meeting.
 for the month of February. So I'm going to give the February report at this point in time. If I can remind the council, the sales tax was up very, very strong for the first two months of the year for January and February. Matter of fact, sales tax are up 11.8% compared to budget. That's about 10% above last year.
 If you remember, I budgeted for somewhat of a slight decline this year, which happily hasn't happened. Franchise fees, alcoholic beverage fees, court fees, and building permit fees were all down. However, the total revenue for the general fund was up 5% compared to budget because of the strong showing of sales tax. And again, that was driven primarily by internet sales.
 We've seen some of the commercial restaurant business come back a little bit, which helped. Also, furniture was strong, things such as that. Also, construction supplies were up for the period. So general fund is overall up about 5% ahead of budget.
 driven by sales tax. When we look at the street fund, street fund was strong, was up about 5% compared to the budget. That was driven by the half cent gas tax, also driven by the wholesale gas tax, which is up a little bit to what it was last year. So the street funds revenue is also performing strong at this point in time.
 parking revenue still has its challenges. We were down, it was down about 26% for the period for compared to budget. However, as the council will remember, when we constructed the budget for this year for the parking fund, we reduced the capital expenditures. We have a couple of open positions and some temps that we haven't replaced until,
 the activity there in parking in the downtown parking in the district street parking picks up. However, it's shown to increase in activity from certainly what it was at the end of last year. So it started to show a little light at the end of the tunnel in parking revenues, even though they're down.
 uh we are in line with expenses at this point in time we're down about one percent uh expenses over revenue at this point in time so i think we're doing pretty well there as well as can be expected hmr tax is down 14 compared to last year
 However, they're up 13% over budget because if you remember at the, during the budget hearings I projected for also some losses coming into this year for HMR revenues. However, that's showing some increases. So we're starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel, I think, on HMR revenues also.
 Water and sewer is up about 2%, which is roughly to be expected. That's still down a little bit in usage from last year. Don't forget, however, we do have a lot of delinquency up there as we have not reinstituted penalties for nonpayment or cutoffs. We're looking at reinstituting penalties
 and looking at working out payment systems for those with delinquent accounts and potential cutoffs if we need to institute that roughly in June. Roughly in June we're looking to do that. So that's what we're going to start addressing. Again, we're going to work with customers very closely to try to help them to set up payment programs for those who are in need.
 And we've worked very heavily with those customers. We're going to continue to do that. When it comes to recycling and trash, about 10% down below budget.
 That's about where we were last year. Same scenario as we have experienced last year. Residential trash collection is up. Commercial is down as partial has pulled back a bit on that. For the airport, the airport still got its challenges. Fuel sales are 60 percent of budget.
 The traffic at the airport has continued to increase, though. It's up substantially to last year, so hopefully we'll see a little better fuel sales. But at this time, we still have challenges at the airport. With that, I'll conclude the February report, and I will be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, counsel, for Paul on the financial report? Okay. Thank you, Paul, very much.
 the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda and number one i have approval of the april 6 2021 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a sculpture commission agreement with rodent studios incorporated any amount of 51 483.55
 for the officer Stephen Carr Memorial Bronze Statue to approve a cost share agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge Number 10 with an amount not to exceed $35,000 to be paid by the city of Federal toward the cost of the sculpture and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. Number three, a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with Washington County
 regarding funding from the gulf coast high intensity drug trafficking area in the amount of 66 108 for the police department i'll entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read move to approve consent agenda second have a motion in a second to approve the consent agenda please
 When would be appropriate to request to remove, to move A3 into new business at the end of new business? Well, usually we do that before we start the consent, but that will be fine if you want to move A3 to the first item of the new business. The first or last is fine with me since those two. Since it's. The rules say it will be heard immediately after consent. Yes. Okay. Sounds good. All right. So that has been pulled. So we have
 One and two, we have a motion and a second, I assume. Same motion and same second. Okay. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Okay, that A3 was pulled by Sonia, so please give us your reason and we'll turn it over to you. Yes, I received, which I believe we all did, received some communication from Ms. Sarah Moore, and so I would love to give her an opportunity to have a public, bring that to public discussion, so I'm hoping that she's available in the attendee list to do so.
 Great. She has her hand raised, so I will let her kind of go from there. Okay. Very good. Go ahead. You have five minutes.
 Sarah Moore, Ward 2, Thank you, Sonia, for pulling this from the consent agenda. I apologize that I wasn't able to get an email out to you in a more timely fashion as I just saw this on the agenda yesterday. This is just a brief summary of what we've been doing.
 I guess of a conversation in the city of Fayetteville that I would continue to request that we're having on what our law enforcement prevention and education and
 and help for our community members in regard to drug use or drug interaction is occurring in the city of Fayetteville. We participate as a part of the 4th Judicial Drug Task Force in actions in regards to many different grant programs and this program the HIDA, the high density drug trafficking has specific
 metrics and specific goals that get outlined. I watched the agenda session and I didn't hear those metrics and what we are trying to achieve with this program. And I would encourage my city council members and as a community member would like to see each and every time we're investing, what is not free money, obviously federal tax dollars coming back to our community are still our money and our tax dollars that we gave from the monies we earned. And so I would really,
 like to see scorecarding and metrics that are presented of what we've agreed to do within our community and how we're measuring that ongoing if that's dismantling 10 drug trafficking operations or if it's
 some other goal, having a measurement and being able to show what progression we're making towards that. Additionally, in lots of the language of each of these grants, I know I've pointed this out, and unfortunately I couldn't find the current grant application guidelines. I've requested those from Washington County, and she didn't have those, but she was looking.
 Many times there are other areas. Law enforcement is one prong of possibly how you would approach drugs within your community, but there are lots of others that are proven out in the data and research to actually reduce recidivism and make your community safer. And so I really challenge us to really look at the breadth of offering within these grants and to have a conversation. We've been participating in this program since 2012.
 I've been sitting monthly in these drug task force meetings since March of 2019 every single month. And I have seen that we have participated from what I can tell at pretty much the same level that we are applying for these funds for law enforcement payroll.
 And so, and in the language of this, there are other areas that we can explore that would actually help to reduce recidivism, you know, peer recovery supports prevention and education. And so I had some particular questions, you know, laid out in my email to all of you today that I really hope that we can start to explore that, you know, the labor that we're going to get from this grant, you know, how are we going to spread that across prevention and education, you know?
 some of the talk is like in what kind of community engagement we're having, going into schools and things like that. And so I would encourage us to be having those conversations and to have that publicly facing now that we have a website. The Court Judicial Drug Task Force posts some of their meeting notes and their audio there that we could have that publicly facing as well so that we're all able to go and access that very easily.
 Additionally, I attached and I apologize again, it's a very lengthy piece of research and it was somewhat dated. I can't find my more recent one, but
 I also would like to have a conversation. I hear quite often we talk about, you know, how many guns or how many drugs have been taken off the street or how many drug traffic operations were disrupted. And some of the pieces of information I sent you today were research where there is a hypothesis that having additional law enforcement activity would actually make
 your community safer and less violent. And unfortunately, in most of those studies that were across Canada, across all of North America, I think there were some in Australia, what the findings ended up being is most of those studies failed.
 whenever folks are being pursued by law enforcement or there's the illegality of drugs, there actually is an increase in violence. And so I know that unfortunately 2020 has had a lot of pressures that we have had some incidents that have been made our community feel unsafe. And so having, you know,
 a bigger conversation and dialogue about what the factors are that are driving that, because sometimes it's not just the law enforcement activity that needs to happen. And that doesn't mean that Fayetteville Police Department is not a great force. It's that we need to talk about the things that are driving people to do the things that they're behaviors that they're doing. The fact that they don't have a living wage, they don't have
 stable, secure housing. They're worried with food security about feeding their families, their education levels. And so I just want to encourage that we have conversations about all those spectrums of how we actually keep our community safe. So I really appreciate the time tonight to talk about this. And I would love if we're able to have city council members or the chief or deputy chief to be able to do this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this in the public? Okay, chief, you want to?
 answer some of that, the questions that was presented. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. It's kind of a myriad of questions, so I really don't know where to begin. And I've been in a Civil Service Commission trial all day, so I don't know that I'm prepared to answer every single question that Ms. Moore presented today. I know the Deputy Chief sent a response email back
 But I'll just kind of point back to where we're at. We're at last fall, we had a special city council meeting for the drug task force. And we talked about funding, talked about the JAG grant. We talked about how it comes in two different forms. You have the JAG that comes in the summer, end of the summer, first of the fall. And then we just had a discussion in January about the other JAG, the other half of the JAG. And then at that council meeting, I mentioned that these height of funds will be coming forward.
 At the agenda session, I talked about the height of funding and how it comes from the Office of National Drug Control Policy, which is right out of President Biden's administration. And so, you know, Washington County is the fiduciary, just to remind everyone, and this is a grant for $66,108, with the allocation being for overtime expenditures and also purchase of evidence and purchase of information money.
 The funding does have a two-year lifespan and must be expended by December 31, 2022. No matching funds are required for the height of money. Similar to like the JAG money, there are matching funds required, but this does not have any matching funds that are required. But as I mentioned, Washington County is the fiduciary of this grant, and so they're the ones that gets the grant and we're the subgrantee of that.
 As far as what the focus is, I've mentioned this a couple of times over the last several months. The main focus is for the disruption of drug trafficking organizations. So just to kind of give everybody an overview of what that is. It's just a complex organization with a highly defined command structure.
 And it's usually involving five or more people. And just to give an example of what we focused on in the last couple of weeks, two weeks ago, we took off eight and a half pounds of methamphetamine.
 And then last week, if you follow our social media page, we took off a kilo of heroin. That's unprecedented. I've never seen a kilo of heroin come out of northwest Arkansas, much less Fayetteville and Washington County area. So I'm very proud of the job that they're doing and what they're focused on. We talked about how the focus has been over 90 percent on heroin, methamphetamine and cocaine. And once again, I think that that just.
 bolsters what we're trying to do and we're going after the big fish. I think last meeting in January I heard well, I never see the big cases. I never see the big cases. Well, I hope it doesn't get any bigger than this These are big cases, okay? The other thing is we have heard about matrixes and what are we doing to measure this? I am the chairman of
 OF THE STATE GULF HIDA BOARD, HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING BOARD. I HAD A MEETING IN MARCH. HERE ARE THE MATRIXES. THERE'S A DRUG THREAT ASSESSMENT IN HERE. I'LL BE HAPPY TO SHARE THAT WITH COUNCIL IF THEY WANT TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT. JUST GIVE YOU A QUICK OVERVIEW OF WHAT WE'RE DOING AS FAR AS THE GULF COAST HIDA GOES IN NORTHWEST ARKANSAS. THE INITIATIVE RANKS NUMBER SIX.
 Number six out of 34 for initiatives with the 2020 stats dismantled 18 drug trafficking organizations which I just defined that ranks 11 out of 34 are return on investment so high that makes us major our return on investment, so we spent $75,900 last year in 2020 and
 And of that, we return 2,195,000 approximately. So that is in seizure value is where that $2,195,000 comes from. If you look at the return on investment and what they require us to measure, for every dollar that is spent, we return $28.93 on that ROI. The last thing I'll mention is just some stats that I mentioned back in January in 2020, you know, 25 pounds of meth.
 Obviously that's going to go up with that eight and a half pounds that I just mentioned. 270 grams of cocaine, 664 prescription pills, 140 ecstasy pills, and 1,080 dosage units of heroin. Obviously that's going to go up as well with this kilo.
 And I did mention that 93% of our arrests were with cocaine, heroin, and methamphetamine. 154 arrests in 2020 and 30 of those were referred to the United States Attorney's Office under the Project Safe Neighborhood Initiative, which focuses on career and armed offenders. I could go into the guns again if you want me to. I don't think that's necessary. I think that Councilmember Petty, I think that's necessary.
 at the January meeting really questioned about treatment and prevention programs. So I've been working hard with my staff to try to gather some of that information since our last meeting. And I think I just buried that page, bear with me.
 Looking at Northwest Arkansas, Washington and Benton counties, when we talk specifically about the JAG funds, and those JAG funds come out of the state, and we've heard Drug Director Lane be here for two meetings over the last year, that's what we're talking about.
 $5 million is being funneled into Northwest Arkansas and Benton and Washington County for treatment and prevention programs. When you compare that to the money that the drug task force is getting for the enforcement side, that's 226,000. So roughly we're getting 10% of the enforcement money compared to what we're seeing funneled into Washington and Benton counties for treatment and prevention.
 Director Lane has told me the easiest way to apply for the grants is to search and monitor grants dot com, research and determine the eligibility, contact his office for support. He said he often provides outlines for grants and writes letters of support. And he is the single state authority for Arkansas, and he's happy to help any way he possibly can. Mayor, with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for the chief?
 Thank you, Chief Reynolds, for going over those items. I know it feels a little bit like a record that we're revisiting. And I know that we have a new person on the team that are working on the social side with the Fayetteville Police, with our social worker. And I'm wondering how there might be opportunities for
 for that person to be part of helping with the prevention. Because I think that's why we're getting to the heart of this, where your efforts on removing those items from the streets and from Fayetteville is very important, along with trying to find ways so that people are not repeating fences. I just wondered maybe that in some of the ways that you were mentioning,
 You know that you're you're researching how you might be able to expand prevention efforts if that might be some part of that research well part of the certainly part of the social work internship program is embedding our social worker into Primary response and we're moving in that direction for the summer session if you will or the summer semester
 of our internship program. And just last week, our intern did work with our drug task force detectives. They encountered an individual that was battling substance abuse, also had some mental illness issues, and they were able to collaborate, work together, and get that individual into the crisis stabilization unit. So we're working everywhere we possibly can and utilizing our social work internship program
 And just try to explore every avenue that we have. So we have looked at that and hopefully as I mentioned when we started this program back in January, I look at it being about a year, year and a half program. And I'm hopeful to bring back some data. I know how much some of our council members or most of our council members love that. I want to bring back some data and come forward with a recommendation on that.
 what we need as far as social workers and what that response would look like. So that's kind of where we're at with that. And I probably have a few other examples, Councilmember Gutierrez, but that's the best one I can think of off the top of my head.
 I appreciate you jumping in. You know, in the last minute, I can appreciate that you've been in a meeting all day and kind of coming into these group of questions. So I appreciate that. And I'm happy to follow back up with you. Whenever we get a chance. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. I have a question. I remember the last time Chief Reynolds, we had this conversation, I believe it was either back in January or February.
 besides the police department, there are other nonprofits who can apply for these grants, right? Who can apply for grants as it relates to prevention. And I think that's
 that, okay, I remember that conversation. So I'm just curious to know, is anybody having a conversation with these other nonprofits about applying for these grants or is the burden being placed on the police department? Because it sounds like your social worker is doing a lot of other things. And I think that I know that there are several nonprofits who would be willing to apply for those grants to help the police department and help Fayetteville. Yeah.
 Yeah, I'd be happy to certainly work with those partnerships. But yeah, I think Ms. Moore mentioned it the best. We're just one prong of this issue. We're the enforcement arm of it. And so we certainly support anything that's available when it comes to prevention and treatment. And she's absolutely right and council member,
 Petty's absolutely right. I've said it once. I'll say it 1000 times. We can't arrest our way out of this problem alone and that's what I mean by that. It doesn't mean that we need to do away with the drug task force and we need to do away with the enforcement of our drug crimes. What it means is we need to partner with our community and part of that
 you know, Ozark Guidance Center, they're a great partner. They get some of these funds that I'm talking about from the state drug director's office. Also, True Self Recovery out of Rogers and Aurora out of Fayetteville are just to name a few. So there's several out there, and I have the information, as I mentioned, you know, through grants.gov and Director Lane. He'd be happy to help out and assist in any way he can. And
 And I think I've mentioned and he's mentioned that, you know, when you look at enforcement money for the state through the JAG grants, you're looking at about $12 million. And when you look at treatment and prevention bucket, you're looking at about $35 million that's available out there for the state of Arkansas. So, yeah, thank you. I appreciate it. I really would like to see if we could kind of have a community conversation as it relates to collaboration and getting some of these nonprofits to partner with the police department because when I think about it,
 I mean, you are enforcing the prevention. I think that we have, you mentioned OZARK guidance. We have several organizations in Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas who would be willing to partner with you. And I'm hoping that we can disseminate that information as it relates to the grant so they can be involved in the conversation and they can work with you so that burden won't be placed on the police department, Chief Reynolds.
 Thank you. Yeah, I often, you know, worry about having the capacity to deal with all of that. And right now we're just trying to keep our heads above water. And sometimes I feel like, you know, we're the lonely folks out in the forest yelling, hey, help us, help us, help us. And I certainly would embrace that. So anybody that wants to partner with us any way that we can help from the enforcement side, certainly here to partner with those groups.
 And we appreciate your openness to do that. I think that you're right. We can't arrest this problem. So I believe that we have to do a, look at it from a community perspective. And I'm sure that we have many nonprofits who would be more than willing, Chief Reynolds, to support you and to work with you because we're all striving and hoping to do the same thing. Thank you, Council Member Jones. One of the questions, do we have comments or questions?
 Okay, this is a resolution. So, it takes a motion and a second to pass. I move we accept the resolution. I second it. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Yes. Spur? Yes. Spur? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to unfinished business. Number one, in ordinance to amend 118.01 with ability of chapter 118 business registry and licenses, chapter 151 definitions, chapter 161 zoning regulations,
 162.01 establishment listing of chapter 162 use units and chapter 163 use conditions the Unified Development Code classified the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals this was this is on the second reading is that correct Kara
 who's already read the third time. I thought we were on the third and final reading tonight. Already, yes. Okay. Mayor Jordan, from what I can see, I agree. It was left on the third reading at the last meeting and table for two weeks. Yeah, I had on my thing here, I think the second, but I thought it was on the third. Thank you very much for clarifying that, Carol. Okay. I think Mary probably has this. Yeah, I have this one, sir. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 I have a very short presentation for you tonight, and then I'll answer any questions that you have. So with that, I'm going to go ahead and share my screen here.
 So this item was initially tabled at the April 6th meeting of Council with a request for staff to review potential ways to determine occupancy for Type 1 owners. Additionally, we received a number of questions from Councilmember Turk in the middle of last week, and we greatly appreciate that deep dive into this ordinance, and we're happy to answer those questions or any others as needed after this presentation.
 So a quick refresher in short-term rentals. A short-term rental is a leasing out of a furnished residential dwelling on a short-term basis, generally less than 30 days. Pre-COVID, it was estimated that there were approximately 500 to 600 STR units in Fayetteville. Fayetteville's codes do not have specific rules for STRs. This prevents them from legally operating, and there are numerous short-term rentals currently in violation. Okay.
 Here we have the startup period. We talked a little bit about this at the last meeting, but what we'd like to do is add some additional language to clarify how that six-month grace period would operate. The original language as seen here is potentially challenging in that it allows those operators that have been operating illegally to move into compliance in the grace period with proof of operation, but does not grant compliance.
 Those same privileges to landlords who would like to operate STRs but have not been operating illegally. Staff proposes that the ordinance be amended, striking the requirement for proof of operation for the past three years, allowing for a more level playing field for all operators and potential operators. You'll see here in this slide, and let me just, there we go.
 I've worked with the city attorney to amend the language. This is slightly different from what you've seen in your packet, but, but clarifies, um, the, the grace period. And it, in its current form can be used to amend the ordinance as needed, but essentially it just removes that requirement, um, to prove, um, operation. Additionally, staff was requested at the April 6th meeting to research various ways to ensure a type one owner is present for the majority of the year. Should problems arise with guests.
 The following are the most common ways and best practices to ensure regular residency as found in various peer city code. 80 days, which is the amount of time you must live in Arkansas to be considered a permanent resident. A number of municipalities used some form of this to determine the length of time a type one operator would be required to be present in their home.
 Municipalities such as Kansas City use 270 days. This time limit equates to roughly nine months, requiring the owner to be living in the unit for the majority of the year. And this appears to be the standard for Type 1 or owner-occupied units across various municipalities.
 Alternatively, the ordinance currently requires the homestead exemption or copy of a long-term lease for Type 1 rentals, but we may consider adding two or more of the following. Motor vehicle registration, driver's license, Arkansas state identification card, voter registration, tax documents, or utility bill. This approach is used by College Station and would be required at the issuance of a business license. With that, I will answer any questions that you have.
 okay what questions do we have from the council for mary okay well let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in the segment of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first
 press star 9 on your phone or raise raise hand in zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you if you're in person please start to line up at the podium uh i will i will hear the zoom comments first and that will give people time to line up at the podium to speak in person please remove your mask only when speaking so who would like to address this on zoom first
 Sue Madison. Okay, go ahead. Sue, you need to unmute. Sue, we can't hear you yet. How about now? Yeah. Okay, well, third time here at work. I live at 573 Rockcliff. I was able to receive some comments by Councilmember Theresa Turk. I have read them thoroughly and compared them to the existing draft from last time.
 And I find for the most part that they make a lot of sense and they cover some areas that were missed in the ordinance that was presented before. And I'd encourage you all to look carefully at that and support them. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? On Zoom first. Okay. Okay. We'll give it another minute or so. We're not in any big hurry.
 Okay, and obviously do we have anybody? Yes. Do we have anybody outside that wants to speak to us in person? Okay, well I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have among the council? I do have a quick question. Is the draft that staff, I guess Mary talked about, is that technically what's in front of us now or do we need to make some motions? Where are we on that?
 We would need to make an amendment in regard to the six-month grace period, and that language we can provide to you as needed. Okay. I would like to make that motion. Kit, is that a good enough motion, or do we need? Was it the motion for the language that was submitted by Mary on her staff report? Yeah, on the six-month. So it –
 it would actually be the the updated language presented in the in the presentation as as prepared by the city attorney williams was that did you see that and i i was like a chief i was stuck in a civil service trial all day today and when i saw the original language that mary had uh i i didn't think she quite hit it exactly what she needed to do to accomplish her intent
 So I drafted some language pretty quickly, which I have sent to her. I don't think we saw it on your presentation, Mary. It is. I can reshare my screen if you'd like to see it. Why don't you do that? Let's do that. Let's get this done tonight. I can't share when we have the online participation up. Okay. Hang on. We'll get it worked out here. Okay. Mary, where's the thing? Okay.
 I think I saw it briefly. I thought I did too. Yeah. There we go. Is that, can you see it? Yes. Yes. Okay. So this is the language provided by City Attorney Williams, and I recommend this language. He clarified some portions of this. And Mary, would that have to be, I think we talk about this grace period in two different parts of the code. Correct. Okay.
 Is that right? Yes, sir. We would need to amend it in two different places in the code. Okay. I'm fine making the motion to make those changes. I'll second it. Do we need to say specifically what parts, or is it okay to say that we just want to make sure the code includes those two in the appropriate places? Well, do you think we need to read it? Well, I could. It's not too long. No, it's not too long.
 I didn't know if you could read that. Read that. Okay. Yeah. It would be in two different code sections. One is going to be in 118, that chapter, and the other is going to be in 161. And it would say, person seeking to operate a short-term rental within six months of the enactment of this code section shall be granted a conditional use permit for such short-term rental without having to pay a fee or having a hearing before the planning commission.
 the conditions for such permits shall be full compliance with all terms and requirements of chapter 118 business registry and licenses this section and all other requirements of the fable code including timely and full payment of all hotel motel restaurant taxes to the city
 revocation of the business license shall also revoke the conditional use permit granted by this subsection and then subsection B says person seeking to operate a type 2 short-term rental who have failed to obtain such conditional use permit and business license and
 prior to the end of the six-month startup period shall be required to follow normal procedures and apply to the Planning Commission to request a conditional use permit which will be issued or denied pursuant to the Planning Commission's decision. Okay. I motion. Okay. And Sonja seconded. What discussion do we have on it, on the amendment? So I'm guessing, Kit, that this kind of helped to address and clarify the
 Let's see if I can remember what's the fairness part of what you were saying that make sure that people who are doing these short-term rentals are different from people who are doing long-term rentals and this helps. Basically, this would grant to any person, whether you've been operating a short-term rental or not, the opportunity to get a free conditional use and then apply for a business permit, have to go through the inspections or everything just as normal.
 And you won't have to go pay the $100. You won't have to go to the Planning Commission. You will automatically get that awarded by this subsection. As I pointed out in an earlier memo, the downside of this, everything has an upside and downside. The downside of this is obviously no neighbors will ever get a chance to object to any conditional use being granted because the city council is granting conditional use themselves.
 And also, we don't know how many people might want to do that. And we have a potential limit on the number of conditional use permit. I mean, short-term rental type two permits to be allowed. And so potentially it could even exceed that amount. Probably not. But those are the downsides that the neighbors don't get to have a chance to comment on.
 And we don't know how many there will be. The upside is that we're no longer favoring the illegal operators over citizens who did not break the law. Okay. Thanks. I have a comment about this. Okay.
 I do think it goes a long way to kind of equalizing things out by not having preferential treatment to basically illegal activity or unregulated activity within the city. But on the other hand, I really think we need to beef up and have a more robust complaint system than we have.
 And I think staff should be prepared to address those kinds of complaints once we implement these regulations. So because I do believe we're.
 the neighbors that have had issues with unregulated short-term rentals. And so I believe that we do need to provide an easy and robust pathway for them to, if they have future complaints or concerns, to have those addressed and inspected. Thanks. Okay. Mary, are you...
 Well, Mary and Jonathan addressed that last time. I think it's been discussed. Mary, do you have anything to add? Yeah, I mean, I can add a little bit of language. And if Jonathan wants to jump in as well, but essentially, the way that we would operate is that typical nuisance complaints would be handled by the PD. And that's kind of currently how we operate. On the weekends, these nuisance complaints might include loud music.
 large parties or illegally parked cars. And currently all of those types of complaints are handled by the PD. However, staff wouldn't rely on the PD to enforce this ordinance. We would use their reports in order to enforce the ordinance. Hang on just a minute. Chief, are you, we do the loud noises and the...
 stuff now he does address that correct yeah we we commonly uh respond to those types of quality of life issues and and certainly we do enforce you know noise and enforcement type violations and don't have a problem with that and we can certainly take reports on these kind of violations and forward those to to code as well right i just don't i i want it clear that the police department's not doing code
 enforcement well they are but it's only if there's loud noises and stuff going on that's not legal that's correct I have a question to follow up chief if you could stay stay there so I just want to paint a scenario one that I've heard about that actually occurred so there's a party at a short-term rental it's New Year's Eve
 There's 300 cars blocking traffic and there's noise problems and drunk people all over the place and glass being thrown in the road. It's New Year's Eve, so you all are extremely busy as it is because that's a holiday. Do you have the capacity to be able to handle such an event and
 how would that work with code enforcement when New Year's Eve was like on a Saturday? And so I'm just trying to walk through the dynamics and make sure that we don't have any gaps here and that you have the capacity on both levels, city staff and the police force, to be able to deal with these kinds of activities. Thank you.
 So the scenario you gave is obviously a very difficult scenario with it being New Year's Eve, and certainly we would be busy. So the types of calls that you're referring to is what I refer to as a priority three call. So that's the lowest level call that we would respond to as law enforcement. So it just depends on how busy we are handling higher priority calls, priority one calls, priority two calls, etc.,
 and just how fast and how responsive we can be to some of those complaints. Certainly, parking violations, that's certainly something that we're regularly responding to but over occupancy rates, that's just something that we're not very familiar with and something that we don't respond to on a regular basis. But it's usually those types of violations that are
 are co-mingled if you will into um the type of violation that you're talking about with short-term rentals so my follow-up would be chief would a report be filed um and then that would be handed off to city staff i'm just trying to again trying to find the mechanics because
 Because what I understand from people that I know that had this happen to them, because these short-term rentals were operating illegally, that the police force, when this occurred, was not able to really do anything about it. So once we make them legal, I'd like to just make sure I understand how the whole process will work.
 So I think you're spot on. If that was something that we would respond to after hours, so to speak, then certainly we would take a report on that. It would just be merely an informational report on over-occupancy, and then code could get that report the following Monday or the following business day and follow up on it. No, we would not take an enforcement action on something like a code violation report
 Our stance would just merely be going out and taking a report as time is allocated for our officers to do that. So in that situation, you would not be able to break up the party or stop the party or disband it? Well, if it's just based upon over-occupancy, I don't think that we would be able to intervene with the current legislation the way it's written. Now, certainly if it's a loud party and it falls under the noise ordinance,
 and then a social host issue. I mean, there's a very different statutes and ordinances that might apply to that situation, but you're just merely asking me about over occupancy what we're talking about here tonight on an Airbnb, if you will, short-term rental, then no, we would not be able to take an enforcement action.
 but if there were parking situations and and bottles being thrown you would be able to do something about that and you would include that in your report yeah absolutely anything that's ancillary to that that's a violation that police normally handle you know littering anything to do with parking enforcement certainly we would be able to take immediate enforcement action on something like that that's correct thank you for um for walking me through the scenario appreciate it you're welcome
 but i think the the motion is second was the amendment that kit drew up on the uh um so i don't want us to deviate too far from that um so what is the discussion that we have on the amendment right now and then we will come back to other talks in the audience okay okay this is on the on the amendment we have motion to second care would you please call the row thanks
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Now we're back to the amended ordinance. So what discussion do we have on that? Mayor, I have a lot of comments.
 As you all know, I really kind of took a deep dive into the regulations last week after our meeting on Tuesday night after our agenda session. And I did that because I have several long-term properties and I have a lot of residents around here because we're close to the U of A that is very concerned about the occupancy limits that we have in place. And I have a short-term rental. So I really wanted to focus and make sure that we got this right.
 And I sent you all, I sent Mary my summary on last Wednesday, and then I also sent a copy to city council and city staff. I'd like to go through with each one of these, or most of these, because I do feel, aside from some of the clarification items, I do feel that many of these are important, that we get it right.
 but I'm also open to sending it back to ordinance review where I would come and participate or we could address those at that time. But I do feel that we need to clarify and identify several of these provisions. I don't wanna rush this. This is very important to get it right the first time and to not just say, oh yeah, we've been working on it two years. What's your problem? Well, I think there's a lot of gaps in here.
 And when I started this, I thought, well, maybe I'm just making too much out of it. But when I looked in the code, I found a lot of inconsistencies and some concerns that I had. So, again, I think the time is now to get it right and to not rush it. I'll ask all the questions you think you need to. Council Member Turk will be more than happy to answer those.
 Okay, thank you. So, Section 11801, Item C. So, Mary, I hope you have these up and can maybe respond to this. Sure. This prohibits minors from being required to have a business license for a short-term rental. Okay.
 So I thought that the intention was really to prohibit minors from engaging in short-term rentals. And here's why I say that, because as it's written right now, a minor could be engaged in a short-term rental if they are a renter. So let's just say that the landlord is allowing the renter to engage in renting out one of their rooms as a short-term rental.
 Well, the owner of the house, the landlord, is the one that holds the business license. And if you have somebody that's living there younger than 18 years, they could theoretically not hold a business license. They'd be prohibited from that, but they would still engage in short-term rentals. So I think, like I said, I think the fix is to change some of the language to make clear what our intent is.
 I agree. I think, you know, most of the platforms require that you be 18 years of age to rent. But, you know, not everyone rents through a platform. Additionally, we do have, you know, the business license requirement that prevents minors from holding a business license. But, you know, there could potentially be situations in which.
 a minor could possibly rent a short-term rental out. So if we wanna add that, I think staff could support an amendment adding that language. Thank you. Do other council members have some comments on that or some concerns? Well, I'm glad that you pointed that out, Council Member Turk. And I think that you have a point. So I'm certainly understanding what you're saying and it could be a concern so.
 Thank you. I understand what you're saying on this. And, you know, and I agree that, you know, we don't want minors, I don't know, who subletting their apartments or whatever for short-term rentals. However, that subletting ability is in a contract between the landlord and the minor,
 And I don't see how the city can, I'm a little concerned how the city can,
 can enforce or jump in on somebody's contract, somebody's private business in this way. I'm a little unsure how we would be, I don't see how we could enforce that. How are we going to know some of these things if there's never a problem with it and somebody does allow, because in my leases, no one can sublet anything.
 But, and I think most leases I think that is the language for most leases. You know, I just don't know how the city can, if someone did allow someone to sublet, and that someone who was subletting was a minor, and there were no problems with that, you know, there were no complaints ever filed about that I don't know how the city would even know.
 I agree. And I thought about that too. But we have a lot of very loose language in here that is not making it clear that the owner, the landlord needs to get a business license. They need to have all of these different things if they allow their leasee to sublet. It's very, very open-ended.
 And if I allowed subletting in one of my long-term rentals, I would not have any guidance in how to follow city code here because it's not very clear. We just kind of allow it to happen, but we're not explicit about what the requirement of the landlord is.
 So again, tightening all this language up, we don't have a requirement in there that the business owner or the landlord allow it sublease in the language to the renter. So there's none of that kind of tight language that guides people to follow our law and also is clear about what our intent is too.
 I mean, I don't really see any problem with putting some extra language in here dealing with minors. But when you're talking about the language that allows someone to sublet, then you're getting into the city enforcing someone's policy.
 private business contract and I don't know that that's the role of the city. I also I mean I don't mind putting any language in here you know some language revolving around minors but I don't see this as being the the straw that broke the camel's back on this short-term rental thing. I think it can be put in there and you know cover it you know adequately. I also think that that our
 ordinance allows us, you know, the way we craft our ordinances, we try, we hope for the best possible, you know, we put in the time and energy and focus groups and everything to come up with the best possible ordinance to begin with. If we found that this was a challenge later on, I, you know, I guess we could tighten it up even more then if we needed to.
 Well, I would suggest that we tighten the minor part up just to be very clear. I agree with you in general about not getting into the business of reviewing leases and making sure that that sublease is included in there. But I want to go through and note that down here on. Let's see, where do I have it right now? We don't have an insurance requirement yet.
 for the landlord. If they're going to allow subleasing and their renter can sublease that out, we've missed that. There's no insurance requirement and it needs to be very, very clear about what they need to have. The owner is going to have to have a business license. They're going to have to allow a safety inspection. They're going to have to have insurance. They're
 And so those are really important items that we need to be very clear about because they may not know that their renter is engaging in short-term rental. I mean, so we just need to be super clear about that and very explicit as that being a requirement. Could I add a couple of things? So if we do add something like this, currently in our business license section
 118.01 general businesses and C you know minors cannot hold a business license but I'm not sure that that is where we would want to put the the prohibition of minors operating short-term rentals so we may need to if we did want to add that as an amendment we may need to add it somewhere else in the ordinance and I'm happy to to look through that a couple of other things you know the if a a
 a long-term leaseholder wants to operate a short-term rental, they are required in the ordinance as it's written to provide a copy of their long-term lease. And then they would be responsible for holding the business license and getting the inspection and providing the insurance. And if they couldn't do that, then they would not be able to obtain a license. However, you know, as, as council member Bunch mentioned, you know, we, we,
 We require that lease, but we also can't enforce a contract between two private parties. So that's something to think about. But I do think that the way that it's written right now is that we do have to see that lease and require all of those things of that long-term leaseholder.
 So just to be clear about what you just said, Mary, so you're saying you would require that that tenant show you the long-term lease that they have with the owner, but the owner would still be required to carry the insurance, have the business license, and have the safety inspection? No, the leaseholder would be responsible for that. That's how it's written now.
 I just, so I'm glad you clarified that because I just don't think that that's a very good idea. Um, because, you know, they don't really, I mean, they don't own the place so that, that, and they may be, um, I don't know, transient, it's too harsh of a word, but, um, I think that that that's a gap there that we need to really discuss maybe tonight. Um,
 Because I just, I wasn't clear. So thank you for clarifying that. And I will say, I did look into some of this, these insurance requirements, the insurance requirement overall is in the ordinance that you have, but I did a little research into it. So if you are a long term leaseholder, you can get renters insurance, right, and then you can get a rider on that to do short term rentals.
 You know, you can get that as part of your renter's insurance. But again, you know, it obviously have to be, you know, approved by your lease, but that that is possible. So there is a way that they could ensure that they had insurance if they were operating as a long term leaseholder. Okay, so that part is possible. So as part of that bundle that you would require, I mean,
 I'm just wondering if maybe it could be a joint requirement with the landlord and the long-term leaseholder so that all the parties are on board about this. I just have a very hard time seeing how this would work.
 work as somebody that's a landlord. I again, I don't allow subletting and maybe others do but you certainly want to make sure that everybody's informed and I can really see this, you know, an oversight non communication about this situation. So I don't know if the council would entertain requiring both the landlord and the long term leaseholder to have the business license to have it jointly.
 you have it jointly because here's the situation. Let's say that the long-term leaseholder
 has lots and lots of parties, lots of problems. So they're going to have compliance issues. Do you really want to hold the long-term leaseholder responsible or do you want to have the landlord be responsible for that? I mean, that's their property. I mean, the long-term leaseholder, the renter could pick up and move and say, forget it. I'm going to go on to another area of town and
 I'll set up a situation over there. And then there's really not that kind of accountability that we want in residential areas. It sounds like in the scenario you just described to me that the long-term leaseholder is a problem. And if they're going to pick up and move to another end of town, we need the business license to follow them. So enforcement actions can follow them. You asked earlier for council members, general opinions. And I think for me, this feels like a, an edge case that we're not going to see very often at all.
 especially the minors, but also tenants who are subletting. If anything, I think if that's going on right now, they're going to be a lot less likely after the ordinance passes to try and do a dishonest or unapproved sublet than they might be today because they will have to file documentation with someone. So my personal assessment is that this is
 pretty unlikely to happen. If it does happen, it seems like the ordinance is capable of handling it. I also want to say, how are you going to be able to collect taxes on this? I just think this is a big loophole that we don't need here. If it's not used very much, why don't we close this loophole? I just, I see this as a landlord is being really problematic and very, very difficult to enforce.
 So, Mary, have you found this kind of provision very common in other cities? It's, I would say, for the most part, they allow subleases. I think, you know, especially in some of the peer cities where they were college towns, they did require the long-term leaseholder to provide the lease.
 And I don't know how much, you know, we could necessarily enforce that. But, you know, if it was clear in providing the lease that subletting was not allowed, then, you know, we could not issue a business license. But I did see it. I would say in about, I researched maybe 30 cities and I saw it in about a little over half these types of provisions. Go ahead.
 Yeah, I mean, so I'm trying to think of a scenario, and I'm glad you brought up the college cities because
 the main thing I'm thinking about is um let's say the landlord is open to subletting they know they're doing short-term rentals and the student may be um out for the summer doing a um summer study abroad or something but then they need to come back in the fall so they do a short-term rental thing through their time that they're gone and then they come back in August so um
 You know, if the landlord is okay with that, which I don't know very many that are generally are good with subletting. I mean, I've rented for,
 30 years in Fayetteville and I don't think I was ever a subletting was ever a part of any of my leases so I think in general Fayetteville doesn't allow subletting but if they did and if that was something that someone really wanted to do then hopefully they would figure that out with before with their landlord and if they're okay with that then I think it's good for the them to for the person who's subletting to be fully responsible now with
 with the business license and all of that and have that under control. And then if they, they mess up or do something wrong or get reported, then, you know, they're at, at,
 at risk at losing their opportunity to do short-term rental. So I think having that into the lease that they allow subletting, allow short-term rentals, puts the onus back on the renter and allows them to have the opportunity to do that, if they're going to be out of the country or do something in the summer, other plans. So I think I'm okay with that for that potential scenario.
 I think it's also important to understand that kind of what you described, Sonia, might not actually have been a short-term rental. If it's longer than, you know, if it's 30 days or more, then it's just a regular rental, and I could see where someone might, okay, let's say you've got someone who maybe rents, and they go on their professor, and they go on sabbatical, you know, which is a longer-term rental.
 and maybe they, you know, there is a site where you can, you know, sabbatical.com or something where you can rent the homes of people who are going somewhere else that are professors, and they're going to be gone for a semester or something like that, so, but I think it's important to remember what is a long-term rental and what is a short-term rental on this, so I have no problem with putting some language in there to make, you know, since we are a college town, and we do have
 We do have younger people renting and that sort of thing. So I have no problem with putting some language in there, but I just don't want to make this into...
 because I agree with Matthew. I don't see this as probably being just this giant problem of subletting short-term rentals. But I see if there are problems, it's going to be something else that's the problem. It's going to be the actual renter. It's going to be the parties. They're probably already having parties. It's not just going to be just only a short-term rental thing. But I think this is
 kind of maybe not going to be that common, but if we need to put language in there to, you know, possibly prevented at all, ever, I'm fine with that. As long as we don't try to make everything around, build it too much around this one issue, because I don't really see this as that big of an issue. So if we were to add language regarding minors, would we have an exception for emancipated minors?
 I would be open to that. With all due respect to the discussion, are there any motions to be considered? Because we've discussed this at at least three full council meetings, two ordinance review committee meetings, and so far we've had consensus to move forward on the basis that we have a grace period and a review with potential amendments in the future.
 And I understand that some council members, not just one, but more than some council members may have lingering concerns, but without a motion with specific language to be considered or to take time to develop that language, it seems like, I guess it seems to me a little bit like we're spinning our wheels. Well, Matthew, I'm happy to make a motion to consider.
 to table this for two weeks so that we can actually have some proposed language to come back with in two weeks that is very specific, not just about the minor issue, but about a couple of these other ones. I was just hoping we would have a discussion about those that would move us forward. But because I've got several other ones in here too.
 that I think are important that we that we discuss openly and with the public. So would you do you want me to make a motion or can we continue the discussion? Well I think Teresa if you're looking at some stuff to bring forward by all means make a motion and get a second and then we voted up or we voted down we go on to the next one. That's usually
 or whatever the council wishes to do. I move to vote immediately. Second.
 well we have a motion in the second let me explain the rules wait a minute yeah everybody everybody everybody simmer down kid okay uh this is one of the most privileged motions and according to the municipal uh league's requirements it says a motion to vote immediately is a motion to close debate shut off subsidiary motion and take a vote at once the
 uh vote motion to vote immediately is you can't interrupt a speaker i don't think a speaker was interrupted but that'd be up for the mayor to decide it does require a second it is not debatable it requires it's not amendable and requires a two-thirds majority which is six affirmative votes to pass so once it's been done and seconded we go straight to the vote it's not debatable oh okay
 Can I ask for some clarification here because this is a little new for the mayor? So what we have is a motion to vote immediately. And we have a second. On the ordinance as amended at this point in time. Okay. Well, I guess we're all done here then, aren't we? Well, I guess we'll see what the vote is and then we'll know whether we're done or not. Okay. Well, that's a good point.
 All right. Well, I guess we'll not have any final comments or any more debate. Tara, would you please call the roll? Did we have a second? Yep. And this is a vote to vote, not a vote on the ordinance, correct? It's a vote on the ordinance, Matt. It's a vote on the ordinance. Is that correct? Did I get that right? Yes. Okay. I'll be approving or be going directly to vote.
 For the ordinance, either up or down. OK, but it takes six votes. And if that vote fails, then where do we go from there? It's just for them. We're just right back. Then we're back at it again. All righty then. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. That fails, Mayor. So we're right back where we were. All right, gang, we're back to square one. Let's continue on. I think, Theresa, you have the floor and you was about to make an amendment. Am I correct? Yes, sir, you are, Mayor. I'd actually like to make a motion that we table this item for two weeks.
 so that we can actually go back and take a look at some of the questions that I have and clarifications and allow Mary to reformulate some of these items like the minor one that we were talking about and there's several others that I have in here too.
 if we'd like to go down that path. Otherwise, I'd really like to have a full discussion about each and every issue. But if it's better and if it makes more sense and it's more efficient, I'd like to give Mary some time to see if she could draft some other language, some different language for many of these concerns. Karen, did you want to say something? Mayor, I just wanted to make sure
 The vote that I had was four to four, and I know City Attorney Kit Williams said it failed. You're required six votes to pass. Take six. Thank you so much. Okay, now we're back to the discussion. So I'm trying to get this all in my head. So the ordinance review has had it twice, and we have y'all's recommendations, correct? Okay, but okay. I have a comment on this. Out of respect to Councilwoman Turk,
 And the concerns that she's received and researched, I move that we go, we delay this to the next, table it to the next city council meeting. I'm sorry if it seems like that we've dragged it on and on and on, but that is no excuse not to have a better piece of legislation. So, okay. So would that be a second to her motion? Yeah.
 Yes. That's all I need, Mark. It's just a second and we'll go on from there. Did she actually make the motion? Yes, she did. Tracy, you made a motion to table this for two weeks, right? And Mark, you seconded it. That's correct, Mayor. Works for me. And then you want Mary to try and incorporate. And I need to know what you want her to incorporate. I mean, yeah. Please.
 i mean i gotta i gotta have some kind of pathway i know that you sent us a document trees that had about 16 items on there do you want them all to try and put incorporate all of them or or
 Many of them are just trying to clarify the language. So they weren't all issues. There were many that were clarifying the language quite a bit. Ideally, I would love to go down and address each one of them with council members, but it seems procedurally that that was not what council wanted. That's why I'm making the motion to table now for a couple of weeks.
 I can work with Mary on these or we can discuss other ones that are in the list that I think it would be important to have council input to. I think they were either oversights or so whatever the pleasure of the council is. I have one thing to add here. When I read over this,
 you know, when I read over these, however many items there were, a lot of them are covered in other parts of our code. And I think it's somewhat to say just because, oh, it doesn't mention it here. You know, we have all sorts of ordinances that do, that operate this way where we don't, you know, every ordinance does not have every bit of code.
 it might refer to something else and then you go look at that ordinance. But some of it I felt like was covered in other parts of our code. I would prefer if we want to have a discussion, we need to have the discussion now so we know what we're talking about. I do not feel comfortable sending this list that I read and went through meticulously,
 with Mary and asking her to craft something that I may not agree with to begin with, you know, and I know Teresa, Teresa's nodding her head there, so I, if we're going to have, and some of it, like I said, I think is, is covered in other places, and, you know, so I, I don't know what we need to do here, but I don't feel comfortable sending a list to Mary to say, write all this up when we may not need to do that,
 And that's why I would rather have the discussion out in public and get it over with than to try and have Mary go back and craft something that maybe she knows what to put in there, maybe she doesn't know. I think the discussion needs to be had by the council. I mean, I think we'll table it for two weeks and come back and then we'll have to table it for another two weeks. And that might be all right with you all, but... Well, I'm happy to carry on with the discussion.
 because i've seen council members i saw one council member one night had 14 amendments on an ordinance and it didn't it it didn't those didn't pass but i'm just saying they had the floor and they made amendments and the council either voted it up or they voted it down so but i think what i have right now on the floor is a motion
 to table for two weeks in a second if i understand correctly well motioner and the sector which is to remove their motion am i right kid that's correct i did that very well didn't i all right
 I'm happy to withdraw the motion if the council would like to engage in discussion tonight. I do think that that's much more productive. That's originally what I wanted. So if we can continue on with that, I'll withdraw my motion. Well, I think, Teresa, you have the floor and they've already made a motion to vote immediately.
 you know yeah that one's already been decided and it failed i know i'm saying that but she still has the floor and she can make i guess as many amendment as she would like to make well she's going to remove her motion to table i think the second needs to agree well okay how about that y'all that'd be mark kenyon if he agrees to remove a second then we can go on and not vote on the motion to take yes you're willing to yes okay
 All right, so we're back to, you have the floor, Teresa, and I assume you're going to make some motions, and we will discuss them along with Texas. Okay. If we want to start back with the minor, I think, Teresa,
 Section 118.01C. I think Mary said that she would work on some language for that. Do I need to have a motion to request Mary to work on some language? I think she understood what the intent was. I think the more guidance we can give Mary with language, the better off we'll all be. And I think that's going to take some council members to make a motion in a second, and then vote it up or we vote it down. I don't mean to be frustrated here, but...
 I mean we're you know I need we need some guidance for Mary we need to make an amendment and if it fails then it fails and it doesn't get put in the final ordinance we do this okay I will take it from here then I move that we modify we amend section 118.01 C give me some time to write some stuff down section 118
 item C to redraft language that clarifies that minors are prohibited from leasing, advertising, managing, or any other activity involved in short-term rentals unless they are an emancipated minor. Okay. Everybody got that? Do we have a second item? I'll second that. Okay. Okay.
 Do we have any discussion on that? I think we've discussed that for a while. All right. Let's vote on the first amendment. Unless, Teresa, you want to add something. Okay. All right. This is the first amendment. Yes. All right. Kerridge, please call the roll. Fetch. Yes. Err. Yes. Ertsberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Kenyon. Kenyon.
 Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? No. Okay, that passes. Correct, Kent? Yes. And that will be added into the language of the ordinance. Yes, Mary will do that. You got all that, Mary? Okay, here we go. Okay, Teresa, what else do you have? Okay, the next one is section 118.01e is an echo.
 This is a recommendation that we define room better, that we need to find bedroom. And because our occupancy limits on short-term rentals reference bedroom, and so having a very clear definition of what a bedroom is, you know, and that definition can come from the fire department or, I mean, I...
 or some other kind of real estate defined bedroom so that we are clear what that is. That's with a closet that's got an egress and an ingress. And but right now we just say room and then we have another part of the code that says bedroom. So I would say.
 So that's what I would like to make an amendment to that we amend section 118.01E that would specifically define bedroom based on either the fire marshal's definition or real estate definition and to use that consistently within our code.
 Could I clarify a few things quickly? So a couple of things currently, you know, as it's written, a bedroom is an enclosed portion of a building designed or intended to be used, or a room to be used principally for sleeping purposes. We don't actually have a definition of bedroom anywhere in our code because we rely on the IBC and the International Fire Code as adopted by the state of Arkansas to provide that definition for us.
 So, you know, if we added a definition of bedroom here following either IBC or, you know, FHIR code, it would have to, I would think that it would need to apply to the entire development code. It would make sense to me that if we're defining bedrooms specifically, that it would not necessarily be specific to this section of code. And right now, you know, there are a number of things
 that that building code requires it's seven foot tall ceilings there's there's numerous um you know size requirements access requirements lighting and ventilation requirements electrical outlet requirements heat requirements and some provisions for bedrooms and basements so it's quite a lot of information um from the code and jonathan i don't know if you want to add anything to that but i think that's currently kind of how we define what a bedroom is
 Certainly, I can comment briefly. Jonathan Kurth with Development Services. I think there's a lot to be said for deferring to codes that are adopted on a state level. If nothing else, when those codes change, we don't have to go back into our ordinances and find every instance where they already occur. We have found that to be a pretty effective way of instituting and making sure our codes stay up to date without having to actually do an amendment every single time.
 Jonathan, does the state define what a bedroom is? I know my kids stayed in a nine-by-nine room with two of them, so I don't know. That's kind of the way we defined it on Arrowhead a few years ago. But anyway, that being said, how is a bedroom defined?
 The state of Arkansas adopts the international building code on a semi-yearly basis. It's not always the most current one. From there, that's where our ordinances or building codes are established. So every time the state of Arkansas adopts a new one, the city of Fayetteville can adopt it with the potential for amendments that are a higher level of scrutiny or a higher requirement.
 But the state of Arkansas is based on their national building code. Okay. Then, Jonathan, what I'm asking is do you know what our building code says a bedroom is? I mean, if we've adopted the international building code or the state building code, we should have something somewhere that tells us what a bedroom is, correct? Yes. And I believe Mary hit on it. Yes, I think Mary hit on it. What would that be?
 Mary hit on a couple of those characteristics. I think she probably has it right in front of her. I do not. Yeah, I mean, I can read through all of it. It's about two and a half pages long. Let's summarize it a tiny tad. But excuse me, if there's a second, we should have the discussion. But if there isn't, then we shouldn't. I'm sorry, Matthew. You're absolutely right. So, Teresa, your motion was to define a...
 a bedroom, correct? That is correct and I'm happy to reference the IBC too, but yes defining it is right now. Just give me a motion let's see if we get a second here. So that's your motion do we have a second? Yes I would like to second it and but one other part that you mentioned which was to just change room to bedroom which I think that helps to clarify
 so that we don't turn you know laundry rooms into bedrooms if they don't have ingress and egress. Okay we have a motion in a second so we can discuss this so we've started discussing the definitions of a bedroom I assume. On the other hand as Councilmember Sonja said
 right now the short-term rental says a residential dwelling unit portion of dwelling unit or room within a residential dwelling unit i think if you just change room to bedroom then we could still rely upon all the state uh definitions and not have to put one in and that would be a much more simple uh sort of amendment and i think it would accomplish what uh council member turk is trying to do would that not exclude the use of a pull-out couch in a living room though
 i i didn't i didn't hear you i'm sorry would that not exclude the use of a pull-out couch in a living room which we added the occupancy plus two for that purpose but the occupancy is based on bedrooms and so the pull-out couch could be the plus two okay well all right so we have a motion in a second to redefine bedroom or the divine bedroom
 Mayor, if I will, if bedroom will, if putting bed onto the room will invoke the IBC code, that's my simple motion would be just to clarify this is bedroom and replace that from room. Okay, we have a motion to change room to bedroom. Did I get that right? That's right. Okay, thank you. Do we have a second on that?
 Second. But I want to be sure she's okay with that. All right, we have a motion to second to change the definition of room to bedroom. Any other discussion on that? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon? Petty? Yes.
 Yeah, so that passed 5-2. Okay, now we will incorporate that into the language of the ordinance. Okay, Theresa, what else do you have? Okay, section 118E, number 5. This provision requires the platform, like Airbnb or VRBO,
 to not allow short-term rentals to operate or for them not to advertise the short-term rental on their platform. And I honestly don't see how we can enforce that. You all, just like I have, have received several emails from those groups saying that that won't work for them. But I legally just, or logistically, can't see how we can enforce that.
 So I would move that we strike that requirement at 118E number 5, requiring platforms to make sure that STRs in the city of Fayetteville are adequately licensed.
 Mary, is that something that is covered in some of the other cities that we looked at? Is this pretty common language in a city ordinance? I have not seen it in that many ordinances. I do think that it was based on kind of best practice and our research into that. But the more that I've researched, especially ordinances that have been passed recently, I haven't seen something like that.
 included. I do think that, you know, common sense wise enforcement may be difficult for something like that. Okay. So we have a motion to strike 118E5. Is that correct, Teresa? Yes, sir. It is. Okay. Do we have a second for that?
 I'm a little bit, I'm not completely clear what a 118E5, can you just summarize that again? Teresa, I want to make sure I understand just a quick...
 Yes, or maybe I can even get Mary to respond to that since she's the expert on this. Okay, great. Thank you. Yeah, it essentially, it just is requiring that the hosting platform, no hosting platform shall facilitate or conduct any booking transaction for a short-term rental in the city without the short-term rental first obtaining and maintaining possession of the requisite business license. So...
 Again, it is a little, it would be a little difficult to enforce. And I think both on the city's part and maybe the platform's part to confirm that they have the business license. Okay. So do you think, so it does need shoring up. Is that something that you think you feel good about just kind of making sure it's got no loopholes in it? I would support that motion. Okay.
 Okay. Yes, I'll second it. I see you nodding. I think she suggested it be deleted. So I, yes, so let me clarify, Sonia. I suggested striking that, deleting that provision, because I don't think we can enforce that. I just don't see how that, how that is something that we can do. Okay.
 Okay. And Mary, do you think striking it is an okay thing to do, or do you want to kind of rewrite it? I don't know about that. I think that if we're wanting to deal with it, striking it is probably the best way. I mean, either keeping it or striking it. I don't think there's really a way that we can rewrite it that would change the intent or make it, you know, more enforceable. Okay. So I'll second the striking. Okay. We have a motion and a second to strike 118E5.
 Any other discussion on it? I have a quick comment. I won't be able to support this one. I guess in so many words, it's because I don't really believe the claims of the short-term rental booking companies.
 We heard the same things about how they could never collect the taxes that they're required to collect and have always been required to collect. But when we stuck to our guns, we were able to get agreements to get them to start collecting. Implementing a simple document upload and check is something that they already do for copies of driver's licenses, for copies of insurance riders. And it should be dead simple for them to do it for a copy of a business license. I think they're just trying to avoid the burden of doing this.
 Okay. Any other discussion on this one? All right. Let's vote. Kara, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ginnian? Ginnian. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. So is that four to three? I have four yeses, three noes, and one absent.
 Okay, and an internal motion like this, then like an amendment like this, then that passes with only four votes. The ordinance will have to take five, but an internal motion can pass with just the majority of people voting. That's right. That's a good catch. I've forgotten that. Okay, that passes. All right, Theresa, what else do you have? Thank you, Mayor. Item 118E, number nine. I'm making a motion to request that we
 clarify the insurance requirements and the amount that we require on insurance. So if we just say you've got to have insurance, so you've got to have a rider, it doesn't give any guidance to the homeowner on the amount. It could be $25,000 or a million dollars. It could be liability insurance. It could be medical insurance. It could be any kind of insurance. So I move that we specify the amount and the type that we are requesting.
 Okay. You want to clarify the insurance type and what, and amount. And what would that, yes. What would that be? If I could, I will say I've done a lot of research into this and you know, a,
 you know, one room in a thousand square foot house is going to have a completely different insurance requirement than, you know, a six bedroom, you know, 3000 square foot house. And so, you know, it's a little hard to put a number on, on what they would require. And, you know, a private homeowner, you know, working with their insurance company, some of these standard riders, most of the standard riders I saw, they included medical, they included disaster, liability insurance. And so, you know, most of that is already there
 So I just I did want to clarify that the numbers vary wildly in the amount of amount of coverage. So I just I think it would be difficult to put a cap on it. I was thinking like a minimum. That's what I and I understand the different houses as they're bigger. Yeah, yeah. I do think it would be helpful to advise them to say a minimum of these three things and minimum coverage.
 But you're saying that it hasn't really been evident that other places haven't put a minimum. They just say you must have some kind of a- Yeah, I haven't seen it. The language that we use is that the owner of the dwelling unit or operator of the short-term rental provides proof of a valid and current homeowner insurance rider policy, which fully covers each unit when operated as a short-term rental. And so we have that language, I think, the fully covers each unit.
 could incorporate various types of insurance. But I haven't really often seen a threshold of any type applied to it. Okay. Any other discussion on this before we vote? Did it get a second? I'm not sure. I haven't seconded that. I don't know. We don't have a second then? Okay. So she didn't second that. So you didn't second that.
 No, I haven't seconded that. Just based on what Mary is giving me, I think just saying we need to provide a short-term insurance without having to state the amount, I think I'm okay with that. Okay, then. So we have a motion to clarify the insurance type and amount, and that's Teresa's motion. Do we have a second? Okay, it dies to lack of second. All right, let's move on to the next one, Teresa. Okay.
 I move that we require the owner of the short-term rental or whoever the holder is of the business license of the short-term rental to be included in the landlord registry. So that again, we can have a way to contact them quickly if the need arises.
 So your motion is to make sure the owner of the short-term rental is included in the landlord. And that would just require a small amendment to the actual landlord registry. Yeah, we already have one. Well, we don't have one of those. I mean, we do, but we're going to include this in this ordinance, which will be...
 Well I think the better form would actually be to include it in the landlord registry ordinance but for for some reason uh we don't have that and I think that her motion is we no longer exempt short-term rentals but they'd be included. Yeah I second that. Hey Teresa is this in your list? Yes it it is in my list it's down there um
 Is it 13? It's the last question. If you move into questions. Oh, okay. Yeah, it's at the very end. Okay. So it would include short-term rental owners into the landlord registry. Does the ordinance that we have not already do that? The ordinance that Mary drafted? I don't think it covers short-term rentals.
 Short-term riddles aren't legal in lots of places. So I think we have to, you know. I think my question was more the contact info. Is the contact info not already addressed in the ordinance that we have right now? That's what I was trying to get at. So I just kind of fumbled along on that one.
 But I think the difference with the, but please correct me if I'm wrong, it's not public, like we can't look at it. There's not a directory to be able to look it up, right? That is correct. That's it. You want to make it accessible to the public. Which would be in the landlord registry if this passes, correct, Teresa? Correct, Mayor. Okay. Sure, I got it. Can I ask a question? Sure.
 Yes, of course. Well, so I thought I understood Kit to say that would require a change to the landlord registry ordinance, not this ordinance. And I want to be clear to Mary that she doesn't have anything to do on this if that's the case. Right. We would have to come back. I think, and I'll ask Mary to confirm this, I think we'd need to bring back another ordinance to change that code section rather than including it in with this. Is that correct? Yes, that would be my recommendation. I think I can just do one of these at a time. So, yeah.
 so this one will be for a later discussion well yeah it'll be a later action yes so that would it would take the either the motioner and the seconder to remove their motions or we'll just vote it up or down what we're going to do we've got a motion in a second on the floor
 I'll remove the motion with the understanding that this will come back and we can vote on it with the landlord registry, vote for inclusion or not with the landlord registry. Okay, that'll be fine. We'll just wait on that one. What's the other one that you have, please? We kind of talked about this before, and we didn't vote on it. So I would like to move that we prohibit
 leases from renting out their short-term rentals, even if they have the ability to sublet with the homeowner. Like I said before, I think it's too loose. I think we're going to have a very big problem with enforcing that. So I'd like to make that motion if it's possible that I get a second. I'll second that.
 Okay. And the motion is to prevent leases from renting out short-term rentals, right? That's correct. Okay. I see a way that that's important. If someone just wanted to come in and lease some property, but they would make a profit if they did short-term rentals in the property they're leasing, then it could become a problem.
 like a business deal, you know what I'm saying? And so it's not really earnest. It's kind of getting around the code. So anyway. Okay. Any other discussion on it? I really think we're starting to try to restrict businesses here. This is
 I mean, I guess I understand what you're concerned about, that somehow they're in cahoots to do this together. But if you've got somebody that's renting your place and they're short on cash and they're going to go back for a month or two at home, I think they should be able to Airbnb and pay their rent during that time. We just went through a pandemic where a lot of people went back home.
 and would have been able to Airbnb and pay their bills and not actually have to get evicted. So I don't think this is a good idea. I agree with Councilmember Scroggin and it seems as though the animus for this may be low opinions of people who lease units.
 And we've gotten dangerously close, I think, several times tonight in trying to keep very careful language in how we talk about people who rent. And I am struggling to understand why we think it's wrong, why it needs to be regulated for renters to sublet a space with the permission of the property owner. What is so fundamentally different?
 When the property owner agrees, if a person who rents a space operates a short-term rental during Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, or the person who owns the space operates a short-term rental for Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue, I'm struggling to understand what is so different. If a landlord agrees to let someone sublet, then I don't see any challenges with this, and I don't understand why not.
 if your goal was just to prevent people from subletting their apartments, why you started out talking about minor subletting, and now here we are, nobody can sublet. And I'm not going to be in support of this. I'll just clarify. I started out minor subletting because it was the first item in the regulation. So that's why. It was the order of the regulation, Sarah. Okay, okay.
 Okay, any other discussion on this before we vote? I want to ask one more item. So Mary, you've definitely found in this scenario where the leasee is subletting out for a short-term rental that they've been able to acquire insurance because I just wonder, that just seems like a stretch to be able to, the ability to have insurance for a scenario like that.
 I'll pull it up right now. If you give me just a moment, I can provide some additional information. Yeah, I've held renter's insurance in all of my places, and they're more than happy to add anything I want to increase my insurance variety.
 But I'll be honest, I haven't tried to get a short-term rental addendum or whatever you call it, right? So it'll be interesting. I'm sure they exist now because it's so common, but it's fair to ask. Yeah, and I mean, I can send you some of my research. It would take me a minute to dig through. I don't want to hold up the discussion, but I can attempt to find some of that.
 It just seems moot to me if the insurance provider won't give a rider, then it's moot. They can't get the business license and they operate outside of the law. So I don't understand why an additional code sentence is necessary.
 Well, part of this is that in our requirements, we don't have insurance in there yet, unless Mary has updated that. So that's the other thing we need to actually require them to display and confirm that they do have insurance when they get a business license. So that is in the most recent version.
 Okay, well, we can, I mean, I guess we can vote on this. You've, instead of waiting and because I know you're kind of going back in there and researching and the night is, we were going to make it a short night except for this issue. So I apologize to my council members, but I do think it's important we get this right.
 Yeah, I just think an apology is needed. I think we should be talking about this as the purpose. I know it's excruciating for some more than others, but this is, we need to have this discussion. So thank you for bearing with us. And I can clarify in the version that you have in front of you now in section 1801E3C is where our insurance requirement is. So it is in the version that you're considering tonight, right?
 Can you say that number one more time? Sure. 1-18-01-E-3-C.
 And I don't have those regs pulled up right now, but they would be when they go in to get a business license, they have to show the lease that they have with the owner, the homeowner. They have to have a copy of the light of the insurance. So I guess it's a certificate of insurance or a payment that, that they've at, and they also have to have a safety inspection. Correct. Are all those in a one 18 Oh one E and,
 3C? Well, the safety inspection is in another part of the ordinance, that requirement, but it is in this version that you're considering. The C states that the owner of the dwelling unit or operator of the short-term rental provides proof of a valid and current homeowner's insurance rider policy, which fully covers each unit when operated as a short-term rental unit.
 Okay, thank you. All right, I'm gonna withdraw this one because I do think that they're gonna have a problem getting insurance And I'm glad that you pointed out that the insurance is identified in there So I'll withdraw that motion What I have is the motion is the leasing from renting short-term rentals So you're gonna with you're gonna withdraw that?
 Yes, sir, Mayor. I'm withdrawing that motion. Make sure I got everything right here. Okay. What else do you have, Tracy? So I always save the best for last, right? Actually, I won't even say it's last. I still have some more issues. But I would like to move that if you have a type 1 rental, so that's the owner-occupied type 1 rental, right?
 that the owner be required to be in the house when you're running out as a short-term rental. And I know there's been reluctance to do that, but this is when we've had a lot of problems with parties is when the owners are away. And so I don't know if I'll get any support from that, but I do think it's important to bring it up and have a discussion about it.
 So your motion is the type one owner has to live, has to reside in the house. Is that correct? They have to be present when they rent it out as a short-term rental. Okay. So you are saying like the case, the...
 hypothetical that Matthew gave where someone rents their house out during bikes, blues, and barbecue. They can't rent their house out unless they are in the house with the people they are renting the house to. That's the way I understand the motion. That's what I'm understanding here. That is... I can't go stay, like I couldn't rent my house out and go across the street and stay at my neighbor's house. I would have to be in, physically in my house.
 to rent it out as a type one? I would be okay with you going across the street and staying at your neighbor's house. But if you're going away where there's no cell phone coverage, and when there's lots of potential problems, I've gotten, I mean, maybe you guys are not getting the same emails that I'm getting, but I've gotten several complaints about this happening.
 It's, of course, they're operating illegally right now, but if we follow through with the type one that we have it defined, the owner doesn't have to be there, and we still haven't gotten to any occupancy requirements yet. We still need to move to amend that.
 But do we have a second? Okay, the landowner or the landlord registry that we just talked about where you have the contact with the people or the agent who represents the landlord. Wait before. Hang on just a minute, Sarah. So, Teresa, you have a motion, and we probably need a second before we get into too much discussion on this. I thought we had a second, but I guess we didn't. That's my call.
 i'll second that okay so let's continue on go ahead sarah no i think
 If I could help clarify just a little bit, we do have a requirement that if there is an emergency or, you know, an issue with the unit that someone has to be on site within three hours. So, you know, if there's a problem and you're staying at your neighbor's or, you know, you're staying at your mother's house that's 20 minutes away and there's a problem, you have to be able to be contacted and you have to be able to be at the unit. Yeah.
 So, you know, there is that provision. And if you aren't able to do that, you can designate an agent to do that for you when you get your business license. So that's kind of how we've, I think, covered that issue. I think that is adequate and that this change would be prohibitive and just really kind of –
 I just think it's kind of unreasonable, but somebody can't go and rent their house. They have to be in the house when they rent it. They can't be accessible. They have to be in the physical house. I don't think that's appropriate.
 Yeah, the whole purpose of Airbnb when it started was the idea of I'm going on vacation. Wouldn't it be awesome if I went somewhere and they almost got to switch houses? Maybe not the same people, but a mix of houses so that you don't waste resources building buildings that we don't need. And this would take away that entire purpose, the idea of why I'm gone. Somebody else could pay me so maybe I could pay a little bit to stay at somebody's house when they're gone.
 So I feel like this is getting rid of the actual thing that we want out of Airbnb. I don't want business Airbnbs where somebody has 20. I want Airbnb where when I go to the Outer Banks, somebody could pay a little bit of money while I'm there.
 Any other discussion before we, go ahead, Sarah. And when you go to the Outer Banks, I can act as your agent and I will be here and I will be available within three hours. Well, hopefully by then we've approved this. Okay, we have a motion for the type one owner to be present in the house when it's rented. Is that correct, Theresa? Yes, that's correct, Mayor. Okay.
 Any other discussion before we vote? Oh, I got to wait for the city clerk. The chair stepped out for a second. Yes, the chair stepped out for a second. Sorry. She will be back and we'll take the vote. Maybe in the meantime, thank you, Teresa, for spending the time to go through this with a fine-tuned comb. It's super helpful. And Mary, thanks for working with us to...
 to we get we get to its necessary point i had some great discussions with kit about um you know getting this right so that we can make sure make it um enforceable and that we feel good about it and this to me is making me feel more um positive and and and we feel good about the ordinance itself so this is helping i know it's a hard process okay any other discussion if there's not
 Karen would you please call the roll. Bunn? No. Ert? Yes. Ertzberg? No. Tarrant? No. Jones? No. Pinion? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Okay. All right. Teresa, what would be your next motion? Number 10 on my list.
 Again, these are just kind of housekeeping, but since we're going through all this in detail, I'd like to move that we add a date. So it would read any, it's item section 118E item seven, so that any change in ownership requires a new or amended license within 30 days after the sale or change in ownership. Run that by me again. You have a motion.
 To add a date to 118E7 to do what? To require a date. So right now it's open-ended. It says when there is a change in ownership, it requires an amended license. And I think that's where it stops. And I'm suggesting that we require it within 30 days after the sale or change in ownership.
 and if i may this is one of those situations that that council member bunch mentioned where in our business license code in section 118.02b
 a business license must be obtained within two months of moving or starting a business. So we do have that language already in the code. So if we were going to amend this section, then we would need to either amend both sections, I think, and correct me if I'm wrong, Jonathan, or we would need to specify that this particularly applies to short-term rentals. I think you have that right.
 So, Mary, if you could even reference that or put two months in there, I think that would be helpful because right now it's kind of left out there. And if somebody is going to go to the code to try and follow it, the more direction or reference that we can give them, the better we can enforce it and they will be knowledgeable of complying. So if we can do that, then I'll withdraw that motion.
 can we do that kid i think you should probably ask mary i'm certainly you can you can do that it'd be up to mary whether or not uh she wants to put something like that in i guess or the council like i said it's already in our in our ordinance so i would think that you may need to just vote to amend this section to add it there um if if we want to add it in this section as well
 Okay, well, I'll go back and move to amend that we add a reference or identify that it's 60 days after the sale or change in ownership so that it's very clear in there. Second that. Mary, did I hear you say explain that that's already a requirement of the business license section? That is correct. Okay, I won't be able to support this. I'm against duplicative code sections kind of on principle. Okay.
 Well, I do have a thought on this and reading through this, the problem is people that have looked at it that have Airbnbs are the ones that have to understand it and they don't. So this helps a little bit with some of that understanding. There's nothing wrong, I don't think, of putting a little coaching in there. It's not easy for some people to read code and understand it. And I think this is a little...
 And I think that's okay. So I'm going to support it. I also think it's hard to read code when it's super long and there's duplicated sections in it. And then if we make a change, we might miss it. And then it's contradictory to what it says in another place. So I also will be not for this. Yeah, I kind of, um, I mean, my take on this is, is,
 more language doesn't, more words don't always make it more clear. And I think, you know, I don't think I'm going to be in support of this because I think when you go in to get a business license, you have to fill out the form. And it's pretty clear when you fill out a business license, you know, when you request one, what you're required to do. So I don't believe in duplicating this.
 Okay, well before we all make our final decisions, I really do need a second on this one way or the other. I don't believe I've got a second. Mark, you gave us a second, right? Well, Sonia, I think, gave the second. Did she? Yeah. Okay, my fault. I have a quick question for Mary. Okay.
 Okay. Mary, do you think that this would be possible to add to the website to maybe make more clear but not necessarily add it to the code? Absolutely. I think we could add this to the website and, you know, if we, you know, I think we have had discussions about maybe creating a brochure when people get their business license and we could add it to that as well. Thank you.
 I really like it because it's clarity. And so, you know, if you're wanting to start to operate an Airbnb, you're not going to go read a bunch of other codes. So I think it's just helping for customer service. But I understand the duplicity thing, but if I was going to try to start to do it, I would just go to just read the code.
 read my my ordinance and wouldn't try to read other back read references so that's why I'm supporting well it's not actually that you have to read all the other code it's when you go in to fill out the business app license application it it is is pretty clear in that
 because I have one. So, I mean, it's not like it's hidden there. So anyway, whatever. No, I totally get it. I think it's just clarity, because to me a business is one thing and I wouldn't assume my business is the same thing as what the short-term rental requirements are, but I totally understand. I feel I should take maybe just another 30 to 60 seconds maybe to belabor the point
 I've, I've, there have been at least a half dozen, maybe close to a dozen times where we have had to bring back new ordinances simply because in an ordinance that just got passed in the prior month or six months, we missed a cross reference. It's so common, right? I mean, we've got what?
 350 printed pages of regulation of local regulations at the city and their layer caked their ordinances based on new complaints or new opportunities stacked one on top of the other year over year decade over decade and we just miss these things. So, you know, I was being kind of quippy.
 or short whenever I said, you know, I kind of opposed duplicative code sections on principle. It's not on principle. It's out of practice. It's not
 best practice for management of the regulation. And, you know, I might suggest that most people who operate a short-term rentals don't read the code at all. That's how we got hundreds. That's how we have some who are operated by people on this call in illegal zones right now is because people don't read the code whenever they consider doing these things. They do the standard practice and they're far more likely to read the brochure and the website than any code section at all.
 I mean the easy solution is just to cross-reference this. I mean that's that's in my mind that's what good code is about is you cross-reference so you help that people um to comply with it. What we really want here is compliance with our reg and understandability. Okay any other discussion before we go? Okay Kara would you please call the roll? Pardon me? Bunch? No. Turd? Yes.
 Ertzberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. I believe that's four to four. That's correct. So Mayor, do you care to vote? I do not. So that fails. All right, what's your next motion?
 Okay, I have a similar one. Item number 14, section 118E, item 15. So right now it talks about notifying the police after suspecting a criminal activity, but again there's no time reference.
 And I suggested we put in 12 hours of knowing that there's some suspected criminal activity. Again, just trying to tighten up the code a little bit. Now, if that's in another section, Mary, I'm not aware of that. So I would move that we would add the time frame to 12 hours or something reasonable for Section 118E, Item 15. Is there a second? I have a question, Teresa. Okay.
 Well we need to have a second so we can get a second. All right thank you Mark. All right go ahead. Who's getting notified
 I believe the way the code reads, I don't have it up right now, but I believe the way it reads is that you're required to notify the police if there's suspected criminal activity, but it's open ended. It doesn't say how long from the suspected activity that you...
 notify the police and and Mary maybe you have that section up in front where you can actually read it since I short um I shortened it yes I'm not sure that it's the 18e 11 I have it here yeah I've got it it says criminal activity the owner shall timely report any known or reasonably suspected criminal activity by a guest to the Fayetteville Police Department
 So it does say timely. It does. It says timely, but I thought putting a number in there would be helpful, because timely can be a lot of different things. So it's the owner notifying who? Police. The police. The owner of the police department. If they think there's something criminal activity going on. Within 12 hours. Okay. Right?
 Did I get that right? She wants, yes. I think the proposal was 12 hours. 12 hours. Okay. That's correct. So if they believe that there's, the motion is that there's criminal activity, they have 12 hours to report. I really want to keep the word timely in there because you're saying if like you suspect somebody was killed in your place, you've got now 12 hours. That's what I was, that's what I was, that's what I was kind of getting at. I mean, it's. Timely is,
 a reasonable person's you know yeah so if somebody threw away their recycling in the trash i hope you send the police email and not not call them but if if you're pretty sure somebody killed somebody timely just is not 12 hours so i i think i think timely needs to be in there
 Just to clarify, it's within 12 hours of knowing or suspecting. So if you found that dead body, it's 12 hours from the time you found that unfortunate incident. Yeah, I really hope time leaves faster than 12 hours on dead bodies. Who is going to find a dead body and not call the police immediately? Let's get off the dead bodies. They've got bigger problems than a business license or an STR if they don't do that.
 i assume it's something major we will be within you know i'll have the police call relatively quickly if it's you know something else but whatever so you want to put 12 hours in our right place instead of time yes that's correct it says within so you could call them immediately so well let's what other discussion do we have on that
 Well, it's kind of turned into some type of thought that people are not going to call in if there's an urgency. But there are those that simply will not call in until they have to. And 12 hours to me seems like at least putting a limit on those that don't see the sense of urgency. So the discussion kind of turned away from the
 thought of the amendment. Can we do timely with a max of 12 hours? I guess that would be a friendly amendment. I would accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. So timely plus what was it, 12 hours? Max minimum of 12 hours. Okay, I got that. Any other discussion on this? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Banks? Yes. Barrett? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, what else do we have? I am out of substantial motions, so I will, I don't have anything else to bring to the table tonight. Thank you.
 okay you're very welcome what other discussion do we have from the council on the amended coordinates there are some cleanup amendments since you've made some changes in chapter 151 definitions Mary you have a whole page of them one of them is actually a definition of bedroom and I wonder if maybe
 in light of what Jonathan said that we should not define that but leave it to the state law which we do I guess in other cases is that what you said Jonathan? That would be my recommendation yes. There was a vote on this to change so it says room and we've changed it to bedroom. No but the definition of bedroom is what I'm talking about.
 and then further on down where it says short-term rental it's got the same definition that we change room to bedroom and so it should be changed in this definition too if you want to keep that definition in those are just consistency things that i wanted to bring up so we didn't make an ordinance that was inconsistent that's fine yeah we have all if we if we don't change anything then we've got two different definitions of short-term rental
 One of the definitions chapter that says residential dwelling unit portion of dwelling unit or room within a residential dwelling unit. And you have just changed that in the actual code to say or bedroom. So I think they should probably say the same thing. Do you need an amendment? Is that what we're waiting for? Yes, you need to have a motion to amend those. I submit an amendment to that. What do you just said? Okay. Well, we got a motion and a second. We do what?
 kip was talking about doing on the bedrooms all right if there's not any other discussion let's vote on the amendment there would you please call the road yes sir yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, thank you all. Okay, and the other one where you define bedroom, and Jonathan has suggested we remove that. And the reason to remove that, it says right now, a fully enclosed portion of a building designed or intended to be used principally for sleeping purposes.
 And that sounds nice, but if we actually define bedroom in this code, then that's the actual definition we'll have to use. Nothing about fire safety or anything else like that. Nothing about any of the fire codes. And that's why I agree with Jonathan that we should not have this definition of bedroom in here. Instead, we should rely upon the state definitions of bedroom. But if we put it in our code, that's the definition of bedroom, and that's all it has to be, and we can't require anything else. For sure. Can we remove the definition? Sure.
 Second. Any other discussion on it? All right. Sorry, got to pipe in. I just hope that there's a reference or something so that somebody that's reading the code can find out what a bedroom really is.
 So if there's some way to reference that back to the state, I think that would be very helpful. Well, and they would also have the opportunity to learn that when they got their inspection. So when the, when they got their life safety inspection and the fire marshal was doing their inspection, they could clearly tell them, you know, what this is qualifies as a bedroom. This does not. And I would, as city attorney Williams said, I would definitely want to leave that up to the life safety inspector. Can I revise my motion? Okay.
 I move that we amend the definition to reference the state law. Okay. Do we have a second? Thank you, DeAndre. Any discussion on that one? Do we have anywhere where that is referenced in any other definition in our code? I don't believe so, Jonathan. Do we reference a quick muni code search? I cannot find bedroom, so...
 No, if the concern is about making that apparent and readily available in our ordinance, it is not there explicitly. The International Building Code is hundreds of pages long, similar to our ordinances, and so we have a section of code within the Unified Development Code that references
 the building code that's adopted by the state of Arkansas. So if that's a concern that I know was shared by some council members on another item previously, then it may bear including that in our codes rather than just referencing existing adopted state codes. And that would be a larger code change than this reference.
 Yeah, I would hate for every 10th or 15th word in our code to say, oh, we reference the state code, we reference the international code. I mean, that would be impossible to read. This is just kind of standard practice that when you have those words, they actually mean stuff and they mean stuff in the international code and the state code. Mary or Jonathan, would you recommend striking the definition?
 Honestly, I'm kind of agnostic towards the issue. I don't disagree with the customer service aspect of providing that up front for people to understand. Conversely, I think we've found...
 when we work with a more professional element of development community. We have some references like the building height that defer to building code. We don't, we haven't transferred that into our code and that way as builder the building code changes over time we don't have to keep changing our definition of a building height.
 i think if the council is amenable to it we could certainly include something like that in a one sheet informational document like mary referenced earlier i think that that may be a an opportunity to not amend ordinance if the council preferred not to
 I would much rather have this in the website. I mean, when you start defining stuff and you get too technical when there's other entities that have it, I mean, it's kind of like what's a duck? If you define it as something that's got web feed and a bill, if you take a dog and you put web feed and a bill on it, then you've got a duck. So if you just keep starting defining stuff, it's incredibly cumbersome to go through. I think just leaving it with the international state code is what we should do here.
 So here's why bedroom is so important, is because that's how we define our occupancy limits. So we have to have some way so the public can understand what is a bedroom so that they know how many people are the maximum to stay at their location and be in compliance. However we get that to them and make it understandable within our code,
 But I think it's got to be somewhere so they can understand what they need to follow. I mean, it's really germane and important to our whole regulation surrounding short-term rentals. Okay, I would like to amend my amendment or my motion once more. I would like to move that we strike the definition, but we add some educational elements to the website to reference what this definition would actually be. Seconded.
 All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment now? Anything else? Do we need a second? I think we got a second from DeAndre. Okay, thank you. I got that one. All right. All right. Any other discussion? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turf? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon. Petty?
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Anything else, Kat? No, nothing that I saw. I haven't, nothing else. Okay. All right, now we have the amended ordinance before us, correct? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. I'm sorry. There's one more item. Mary, at the beginning of this long conversation brought up the occupancy duration or requirements for six or nine months. And I don't believe that we voted on, on those. If, if I'm, if I, if we've covered that and I've just spaced out, please let me know. But I don't think that we discussed them.
 i'd be happy to go back over those suggestions if if you want to refresh i know we've it was a while back um i i would make a motion to require a nine-month residency for a type one rental uh in the state of arkansas um along with the other uh requirements that have already been adopted in into our proposed regulation a second
 Okay. Any discussion on that? To clarify, you mean nine months that the owner or long-term leaseholder would be required to live in their residence nine months out of the year? I thought it was just for the owner. Did I misunderstand the code? It can be just for the owner. That's kind of what I'm asking. Do you want to apply it to long-term leaseholders, or would you like to just apply it to the owner? I guess we should apply it to both. Okay.
 And this is specifically for type ones? Correct uh-huh for type ones. If we're requiring, sorry. But the state of Arkansas says six months for um. A permanent residency in a state, a permanent resident is um of the state of Arkansas is 180 days. 180 days okay. And we're looking for 270 I guess. Okay.
 So the reason to add the both the owner and the leasee is because we're saying the leasee potentially could be the yeah, is there some language we could just make to say the person who is operating? I don't know. I'm just trying to be more efficient. Yeah.
 But that's the focus, right? Teresa, you were just trying to include whoever is the person that is operating needs to, that's doing a type one, has some sort of minimum, and you propose nine months, correct? That's correct. Okay, any other discussion on that? Type one is the person that owns the house. I didn't understand. It's a full-time resident, but it could be a long-term leaseholder or the person that owns the house. Okay.
 Okay. Any other discussion? Just please call her up. Vance? Yes. Gert? Yes. Gertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. Now, we have the fully amended ordinance at least for this evening.
 So is there any final comments on the ordinance itself before we go for the final vote? Not a comment but I believe we still have a public comment period tonight. Did what? I thought we already did that. Yes we had public comment because we had Sue Madison speak. Right. But you know Matthew you put a whole bunch of amendments on this thing.
 Well I would like to, it's certainly up to you mayor if you'd like to open it up to the full public, but I have noticed that Logan Humphrey representing the state's association of short-term rental operators has had his hand up for some time throughout our amendments and I'd like to offer him some time or him if the council agrees to pose this question or share his comment.
 And to be honest with you, if we're going to allow public comment, I think I'll open it up for the public as a whole. So who would like to address this from the public? Everybody has five. Let me read the rules. You may have forgotten them.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents first press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you um
 Zoom comments first to give people time to line up for in-person comments. So please, the only time you can remove your masks is when you're speaking. Who would like to address this first? If you've already spoken publicly, you have one turn to speak. But since this is all the amendments, we will allow public comment for everyone. So who would like to address this first? Logan Humphrey. Okay, go ahead. Hi, can you hear me? Yes.
 All right. Thank you. Thank you, Lionel Jordan and everyone in the Council. I appreciate opening back up to the public comment. So like Councilman Petty said, I'm Logan Humphrey with the Arkansas Short-Term Rental Alliance, representing fair regulation but also responsible renting. And it's important to note that we want both elements to provide more professional services.
 I thank you all for working on this for so long. I know there's been lots of changes and everything, lots of comments, but I did have one major problem that has changed that I'm seeing since the original proposal and that has to do with the distinction of type two short-term rentals. I did want to note, I was pulling together a little bit of data
 A lot of comparative cities and towns have thousands of units. So for instance, Austin has 6,700 short term rentals. And that's just in the area that's downtown Austin. Nashville has 5,868. Gatlinburg is another really popular tourist destination now and it's also in the Smoky Mountains, has 3,700 units.
 Fayetteville, Arkansas has currently, according to AirDNA, 499 advertised units. Wanted to bring this up because there is what I'm seeing a lot of over, there is potential over-regulation when it comes to type two rentals. When we use a lot of comparisons to areas where there are a significant amount of rentals, we have the risk of potentially alienating tourism
 the possibility of having more tourist revenue and then people to visit our town. So, for instance, with 499 units in 2019 when this was published or when this was potentially this ordinance was being reviewed, there were 700 units. And so what the way that I'm reading it now, according to 118.01 Section E.
 4C, it says all type two short term rentals submitting an application for business license or permit after the six month grace period has expired shall be required to obtain an individualized conditional use permit from the Planning Commission and pass the City Council or City's premises inspection prior to the City being able to issue a business license.
 Originally, the way the ordinance was posed was that all type 2 short-term rentals in non-districts where hotels were not allowed by right. So I see this as being potentially problematic in multiple regards. For instance, with certain, for instance, the multifamily units that are only allowed to have 10% of the dwelling units listed as short-term rentals.
 We and also other areas in there, there may need to be some clarification around, for instance, the condos of the downtown area. And this may be a question that I may pose if I have some time in a second. But more importantly, I think that this could be potentially problematic because that means every property where a hotel is already allowed by right will now have to go through the conditional use permitting process.
 which seems to me to be unfair considering that hotels are already allowed to operate in the district by right. So that's one thing and another thing that I wanted to mention was just the importance of what we define as a short-term rental and consider that those 499 properties that I found on AirDNA are all advertised on Airbnb and Vrbo. Currently Vrbo is a part of the Expedia group
 which also allows hotels to advertise. So what we're seeing right now is a maximum amount of 499 units that are advertised on these websites. It could be that a significant portion of them are already hotels, a boutique hotel, for instance. Consider the Airstreams that are in our areas and other places like that that can advertise their rooms on websites
 short-term rental advertising platforms. Really Airbnb and Vrbo is just an advertising platform for a certain type of business. But lastly, because I know I only have five minutes, I did want to ask to make sure that this is my correct reading of this ordinance is that the all type two short-term rentals, no matter if they're allowed to be an operating business by right, still have to go through the conditional use permitting. So this may be a question for Kit. And now thank you very much.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Tim Moldenauer. Okay, go ahead. Mr. Moldenauer, you're muted, then we'll come back to you, or press star nine on your, there you go. Okay, Kyle Smith. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor, Council, Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I want to call your attention to
 the number of proposed amendments tonight that were necessary to fix issues and conflicts or to clarify issues with the occupancy requirements and the occupancy limits. I'd also like to remind you that one of your city attorney memos outlined the potential conflict between setting a different or especially a higher policy
 occupancy limit for short-term rentals than we currently have in owner-occupied or renter-occupied single-family houses. So I'm going to float a crazy idea here. I would suggest that you repeal the occupancy limit, not just for the short-term rentals, but also for the permanently occupied
 single-family housing. I know some of you are reaching for your lighters to start up the torches and the pitchforks on that suggestion, but bear with me for just a minute. It's not the people in the buildings that are ever what we object to. It's not the blood relations or lack thereof of the people in the buildings that we object to. It's the noise they make. We already have noise ordinances. It's the litter and trash that they leave.
 we already have code enforcement and littering regulations. Mostly, I think if we look back to when the occupancy limit was first proposed, it was noise and it was the collection of cars that would litter the street when too many people lived in one place. And I would suggest that we could replace
 A regulation that is hard to enforce because collecting evidence on who actually lives there is nearly impossible. We could make it equitable between the two types of uses that we're now contemplating. If we instead just regulated the things that people find offensive, and that's how many cars are parked on site at any given time. If...
 If you've got the same car on the street for 48 hours in excess of a certain quantity, then that's an observable and correctable problem, much easier to address than how many people are coming or going or staying in the bedrooms or doubling up bedrooms. And it does become an equity issue, especially now as the
 pandemic loosens up and people are vaccinated but still out of work and facing challenging financial times the need may come to to double up and and this could be a way to address an equity issue and also correct some areas where we may have been discriminatory in the past. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Kathleen Everett. Go ahead.
 My name is Kathleen Everett. I am the Director of Real Estate Investors in Northwest Arkansas. And I wanted to say that we started out, or we, you guys, and us as the public, started out in support of
 having short-term rentals as a benefit and a feature of Fayetteville. And through very well-intentioned process of going through all of the various problems that could come up, fires that could need to be extinguished. I think what's happened is that we've ended up
 and there's a lot of amendments tonight, so I'm not entirely sure what we've ended up with, but I think we've ended up with something that is number one, burdensome,
 difficult to understand. A business license with an inspection of property, a fire inspection, that's very clear and easy to understand. Why that conditional use permit is necessary, I just, I think is, again, finding or,
 creating a solution to a problem that doesn't exist. And I think it will have a chilling effect on the investment that our, our real estate investors are willing to make in the city of Fayetteville. I know Bentonville, uh,
 had a similar discussion about ordinances and they have not instigated any of these governmental regulations that I feel are overreaching. I would object again to the conditional use permit
 and simply say that I think that it's contrary to what the original purpose was. And I think it will have a harmful and chilling effect on investments in Fayetteville. So with that, I will...
 say thank you for your time and I know you guys have the best intentions in the world so I'm hoping we can redress this at some point in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Who else do we have? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now we have the amended ordinance before you. What final comments do we have from the council?
 I have one, if I may, I have one cleanup item in reference to Mr. Humphrey's comments. Okay. In section 163.18,
 Point 18, number two of general standards, the short-term rentals may be permitted in all zoning districts where hotel, motel uses are permitted by right. And then in the amended language for the grace period, I believe that we required all type two persons to operate a type two short-term rental
 would be required to get a conditional use permit. So I think there may be a small conflict there. I'm not sure, City Attorney Williams, if you think we need to clarify that. We could certainly clarify by saying, except when they are permitted use. Do you need a motion to that effect? Yeah, that's what I was gonna ask. Okay, so moved. Second. All right, thank you all. I have a motion and a second. What discussion do we have on that? Okay, Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Now we're back to the amended ordinance. Any final comments from the council?
 uh probably not from the council but i want to say that i think that the council's has done good work recently and improved this uh ordinance especially putting the sunset clause on and then trying to make it more equal between uh the people that have been operating illegally and all others
 Despite that, I still can't, as city attorney, recommend this because there's still the issue that a short-term rental type 2 can have 8 or 10 or even more, because I think we removed the cap. Persons living are transient tenants when...
 A long-term renter can only have three or possibly four. And I think that is another issue that we could not get resolved. And so because of that, and also because there are some other internal inconsistencies within this ordinance, I can't recommend it, but I do think it's been improved dramatically. And I appreciate the council doing that, especially the sunset clause
 But I felt like I just, I'd already said this in my memos to you, so I'm not going to say any more. But I just wanted to say I haven't lost all of my objections to this. Okay. I would like to thank Mary for working on this as well as the chair of the ordinance review. It's been really nice working with her, having calls and getting this lined up. I know for a fact that.
 You know, not everything's going to be perfect. We have a sunset clause. Let's go ahead and push this forward, get it voted. There are things that we're going to learn once it goes out. It doesn't matter if we spend another two, three, four months on this. We'll learn eventually.
 and then we'll make adjustments and if something is drastic uh I trust my fellow council members and mayor's administration uh we will make changes quickly if we need to so I'm ready to vote all right thank you what other final comments do we have anybody well I have just one brief statement I'd like to make before we vote we've been working on this ordinance for a very long time
 I want to, I want, I certainly want to thank staff, Perry, in particular for her work, the city council, and particularly the ordinance review committee for their work, and all the thought that everybody's put into this. And is this ordinance perfect? No, it's not. And is it going to make everybody happy? No, it's not. But you know, these businesses have been operating outside of the law, and it can be uncomfortable to just being regulated.
 But that's exactly what needs to happen here. We must regulate these types of rentals. Right now they're illegal and unregulated. I think that's bad for our residents. I think that's bad for our visitors. I think that's bad for the city. And I believe that this ordinance is a very good first step to bringing fair and logical regulations to short-term rentals in federal. And with that, Carol, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Thur? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay thank you all very much. The mayor needs a little short break here. We'll be back in about seven minutes. All right let's go
 an ordinance for his own that property described his only petition rzn 21-033 located at 797 west cherry lane for approximately 1.02 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate this was left on the first reading at the last council meeting i will entertain a motion to go to the second three so moved
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Bunch. Turf. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Kenyon. Petty. Yes. Scroggins.
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition, RZN 21-033, located at 797 West Cherry Lane, for approximately an acre, from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Jonathan, do you have anything new on this one?
 Thank you Mayor. Nothing particularly new, just a quick summary of the tour that happened on the property for the council members that weren't able to come. I did attempt to summarize some of the main points that came up during the tour, of which the first was Cherry Lane itself. Despite it being a 45-foot right-of-way, it is quite narrow. It ranges from about 14 to 18 feet from edge to edge.
 Drainage concerns that I picked up on while we were there were that there was a decent amount of standing water in the southwest corner of the property. And the site also tends to slope that direction towards Dockery Lane, and there was some concern that developing this site may have negative impacts on the neighboring homes to the west.
 There was lastly a question about if there was if the property was on the septic system. If you may have seen in your in staff's report that the home was built in the 1930s. So that's not something I was able to verify between yesterday and today. The sewer line and cherry did go in in the 1970s.
 So it is highly likely that this property is connected to it today. As to the question of whether there is a septic system still on site, I unfortunately was not able to verify that either, particularly if that transition from septic to sanitary happened in the 1970s.
 But what I can say and for whatever it is worth that if the septic tank is still on site, if the property is developed, the developer would be required to either fill it in and float it or remove it. And with that, I encourage the others on the tour to add their thoughts or comments and I'm available for questions. And Michael Andrews is present as the applicant. Thank you. Yes, would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yeah. Okay. Are you there?
 Yes. Are we, are we, can you hear us? Yeah, a little bit, but. Yeah, let me turn it on. Yeah, there we go. All right, I'm Greg Brockman, I'm here with Michael Andrews. It's yours, turn your volume down. Yeah, my volume's too loud, hold on. Is that better? Yes. Michael and I met with Jonathan, the mayor, and Councilmember Turk, and Walker Free.
 We discussed the width of the street and the probable improvement the city would require if it were to be developed under R.I.U. in the future. We also moved the area that was holding the water. We are going to have a road from the north to the south.
 with about a two foot drop approximately and from the street east back to the west for another two foot which is exactly where that area of the water was holding and of course you know if there is a septic tank there I'm sure it would certainly have to be removed. I've had projects in the past where you've done that it's not particularly difficult you just simply remove the tank and
 fill it with appropriate film material and continue on with the design requirements by the architects, engineers in the city. I would be happy to answer any questions. If you have any questions and probably, well actually not probably, the house long-term that's there would not stay there. It would be razed and replaced with, you know,
 it replaced within the design of whatever the city and the architects and engineers we could agree on. Okay. Michael, do you have anything? All right. What questions do you have from the council to the for the applicant or the staff? Anything? I just want to thank the applicant for the tour yesterday and also for Jonathan organizing that. That was very helpful. Thank you.
 Anything else from the council? Yeah, I apologize. I wasn't able to make to the tour. Were there any neighbors that were able to attend or voiced any concerns? No, okay. Nobody was there. Okay. Well, Trace and myself, and that was it. I apologize. I really intended to be there. Okay. Who else would like to comment? I mean, any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into a segment of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise your hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Now, if anyone is here right now in the building,
 please begin to make your way up because the zoom comments will be folks that are accessing us through zoom will be allowed to speak first while the people that are in this building have time to line up so and remember remove your mask only when speaking so who would like to address from the public tom matthias okay go ahead mr matthias unmute or press star nine there you go you hear me
 Yeah. I'm Tom Mathias, 3384 South Ridge Drive, Fayetteville. I just wanted to comment that it's very difficult to find affordable housing in Fayetteville. And often when an affordable property comes on the market, there are multiple, multiple offers.
 And I just wanted to say that this project on Cherry Lane would be a step in providing affordable housing for the city. And I think that's all my comments. As a realtor, I see the need for affordable housing nearly every day. It's very difficult to find anything that's affordable and payable.
 Who else would like to address? Johnny Ayala. Go ahead. Hi, my name is Johnny Ayala. I live on 794 Dockery Lane and one of the neighbors that has issues with drainage and I would like to know what exactly the developers plan to do to help with this issue.
 before starting, before rezoning and starting development. That's one of my concerns. Another concern I have is that they've had surveyors come in and insinuate that part of my land is actually theirs. So I'm not so sure what's going on there. I have issues with that and
 I would not like to see houses that are three stories tall either because their land sits so much higher than ours. It seems like it would invade our privacy. So those are some of my concerns. And that's all I've got to say. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Evelyn Rios, Evelyn Rios Stafford. Go ahead. Hi, this is actually Robert Stafford. I commandeered Evelyn's phone. Go ahead, John. Sorry to sneak in like that. We're in Ward 1 on Sherman Avenue, a few blocks away. We totally support this. You know, hopefully they will take seriously the drainage concerns, and I think that could be
 You know, a part of this that, you know, they have to make sure that that's addressed. If you have drainage issues and foundation issues, welcome to Fayetteville. We all do.
 uh evelyn and i uh support this you know the affordable housing issue um that area is getting developed we have a lot of good commercial going in down there the bus line is down there we need affordable housing we need to build um you know evelyn and i we live on a hillside right behind us uphill from us is is townhouses we don't have a problem with that it's not an issue it's part of living in a city and the city's growing and
 and we need to grow and we don't need to sprawl. So we totally both support this project and thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bands.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 21-033, located at 797 West Cherry Lane for approximately an acre from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay. I have a question, Mayor. Okay. Jonathan, could you describe what the RIU zoning requires in terms of drainage
 And if there's, yeah, if you could just describe that for the gentleman that spoke and what's required, I would appreciate it. Certainly. The city's drainage standards are based more on the type of building being built rather than the zoning district. So in this instance, the RAU zoning district allows single family, two family, three family and four family housing requirements.
 the city's drainage standards kick in once you put more than two units on a lot. So from what I've heard anecdotally from the applicant on the tour was that they wanted to potentially put a couple, I think quadplexes, but again, that's anecdotal. There's nothing tying them to that. If they were to build to that standard, they would be subject to the city's drainage standards. But again, not if they built a one or two family dwelling. Thank you very much for that explanation.
 Okay. And in the R.I.U., they are allowed to do up to three stories, correct? Yes, correct. The same as the surrounding RSF4 zoning district. Okay. Thanks, Jonathan. Yeah, I hope that there could be some conversations between the
 the applicant and Mr. Ayala so that it could be, you know, any issues with the land ownership could be addressed and definitely communicating where the drainage problems are. So hopefully that can get resolved, but definitely, you know, this is right on Huntsville Road. It seems like that's a great place to add a little bit of density there, but I definitely don't want to have to exacerbate drainage issues, so.
 And it's right at the bottom of a hill and a very narrow road. So this one's a little tough for me. I really wish it could have gone to the tour. So, yeah, that's all I've got. Yeah, I mean, there's definitely two issues kind of at play on a lot of resides that we look at. You know, we have a lack of housing stock.
 I mean, you have any house under $300,000, if it's priced about right, you might get 30, 40 offers on. Those are 30, 40 families that are trying to find a way to either come to Fayetteville or in some cases stay here. I think a lot of people think that it's just people from out of state coming here, but there's actually families that are here, have another kid, and they need another house. And they're like, I can't stay in Fayetteville.
 but we are a hilly city and we do have to look at drainage. I don't think the rezone is where you look at that. I think that's large scale development. I think that's other steps. And I really think we need to revisit our stormwater prevention measures. I'm hoping that this conversation can continue and we can start looking at making it so that people that are downhill new development aren't scared.
 uh and they aren't it's reasonable so hopefully we can start making those improvements um what i see here i think this is reasonable uh we need houses the united states i think is four million houses short this isn't just like a fayetteville issue and then you know if we just stop developing now we'll get over the pressure in six months and it'll go away it won't uh we've got to develop and then we've got to develop right
 Okay, what are the comments do we have now we're on the third and final reading so we're either going to vote or we're going to take so Any other final comments the council? Okay here, which please call the road bench. Yes Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, it's heroes Jones yes, Indian Betty. Yes. Oh
 Scroggins. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to number three. An ordinance to approve vacation 20-015 property located at 2015 South Vail Avenue to vacate a portion of public right-of-way between South Razorback Road and South Vail Avenue as well as a portion of
 of a 10-foot wide alley right away. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. We have a motion. Okay, we have a motion in the second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins yes your answer prove the AC 2105 for property located at 2015 South Vale Avenue the vacated portion of a public right-of-way between South Razorback Road and South Vale Avenue as well as a portion of a 10-foot wide alley right-of-way okay Jonathan thank you mayor I have no updates on this item I am available for questions and kale bowling is in attendance virtually as the items represented it thank you
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yes, Mr. Mayor, council members, I appreciate your time. I don't have anything additional to add from the last meeting. Happy to entertain any questions that any of you all have. Okay, what questions do we have from the council, I mean from the staff, from the council to the staff or the applicant?
 can you all remind me why we held this was it just a it's kind of just funky wasn't it yeah
 I can attempt to comment on that. I think it was atypical for a right-of-way vacation in that there were some conditions included by the Planning Commission where they recommended rededication of right-of-way on the south end of the property and also requiring any development along that new right-of-way, which was intended for a trail to meet the city's standards as though that trail were a street.
 And staff's position was still recommending denial of the request. We had concerns about connectivity. It was denial of the applicant's request, not of the Planning Commission's changes.
 well i don't remember exactly how i put it at the last meeting but i think the planning commission's amendments uh i think made it a more palatable request but staff's position is still recommending denial we don't feel that there's strong enough public street connectivity in the area there are some private streets uh to the north that create the appearance of connectivity okay um
 yeah we're growing city we've seen that uh we definitely want to be able to keep connectivity up so i'd probably also be against this unless somebody else tells me otherwise okay do you have any information jonathan on the volume of traffic that is accessing vale avenue
 I do not. That's a good question. We don't have a, we don't often have traffic counts on roads of bales size. I know it's generally more of an access road. I think a lot of people probably currently mistake it for a private road. It's kind of a frontage road for the railway line there. If you could allow me one moment, I'll see at the off chance that there are any sort of traffic counts. But the short answer is no, I do not know.
 You don't have much traffic going down there. Yeah, and I don't see anything. I have counts for Cato Springs and Razorback, but not for Vail. Sorry. I think for me personally, I would be in favor of this because it's more of an access road, and I just don't know that we need that much of a connection to it. I know that's important.
 but i did drive by and there's a lot of um i mean there's two private roads and they have the homes on those roads i mean the the roads to those homes so those people can access it and i think there's is there one or two other access points jonathan do you mean access points to this property or between sorry between vale and razorback between vale and razorback
 Sligo is the only public street but Junction Street to the south of Sligo and I think it's called Netherland Way to the north of Sligo are private streets between Razorback and Vail. Okay, thank you. Jonathan, is there any kind of plans right now to increase or work on Vail to kind of make it less like an access road or what are the plans for that road?
 No, I don't see, when I looked at that, I did not see it on any of the short-term improvement lists for street improvements. Jonathan, isn't it the case that we would be unlikely to seek improvements to Vail until that big industrial port laying to the right or some of the frontage to the left of Vail were developed? And even then maybe only for the frontage in question?
 That would be the typical requirement. A lot of that comes down to the scale of what's proposed. If the council recalls, the applicant did share some conceptual drawings for what appeared to be a pretty sizable multifamily building there. Depending on its scale and how it distributed its traffic, staff may have the authority through the Planning Commission to require
 much more substantive improvements, but to answer your question directly, the typical requirement would be yes, just for the properties frontage. Thank you. And could you refresh our memories on the extent to which the Fayette Junction master plan anticipates this area being developed? It seems like that's the core fact in question with respect to staff's recommendation.
 There, yeah, I mean, it's maybe a little bit oblique in my response, but a piece of that is because the Fayette Junction plan was largely hinging on the idea that the railway spur to the east would develop and turn into a significant transportation hub.
 i think with or without that transportation hub this property represents an area that could could benefit some from or could benefit the city from some very intense development uh it's located along the razorback road there with easy access to i-49 several parks
 The Fayette Junction plan did imagine it being intensely developed as well. But again, I thought a lot of what occurred in this part of the Fayette Junction plan was intended to be tied into that that rail head there. That's right, John. That's right. I remember that plan. That was not included in what we were discussing. Thank you. What else do we have? The council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone. Raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person folks, please begin to line up.
 and stay six feet apart, of course. And then we will take Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. And when speaking, you can remove your mask, but after you're done speaking, please put your mask back on. So who would like to address us first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. Will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final. Tara, would you please call them up? Bunch. Bunch. Kurt. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes.
 In order to approve the AC 21-015 for property located at 2015 South Vale Avenue to vacate a portion of the public right of way between South Razorback Road and South Vale Avenue, as well as a portion of a 10-foot wide alley right of way. Final comments do we have with council?
 Mayor, if I may request a clarification from Councilmember Petty, I feel like I may have left his question unanswered about Fayette Junction. I do have the illustrative plan pulled up, if it would be helpful for him to see that, show what was intended for this property. But I don't know if that will add to the conversation or not. I saw a couple of nods. I think he answered my question adequately, Jonathan. I appreciate it. But I do also think it might be useful for the council to see that illustrative map.
 Here you can see the the widest stretch of white here is Razorback Road coming along east to west here is Cato Springs. You can see faintly here where the the rail line was intended to come in with a station here. The right-of-way in question is shown here running from Razorback on the west side to Vail on the east side. I appreciate you putting that up there Jonathan and I wanted to share
 My view of these maps is that they're not meant to be set in stone at all. They're meant to communicate the concept and to get us thinking about the relative impacts and the kinds of things that we need to do to make sure that
 the general intent can be accomplished. And when I was reading staff's recommendation and the planning commission's result and trying to think about those carefully, what I kept coming back to is that this is an area of the city that is...
 it would if intent if more intense development occurred in this area it would be rightful for for the city for it to happen in this location is the right place for it and. So I take the recommendations to preserve the connectivity from the staff pretty seriously against against that future and against what's there today, I could I could go just about with just about any proposal about the right of ways but but.
 considering what we intend for the broader area in the future, the connectivity seems especially important to me to plan for now. Okay, anything else? Okay, care which police call the roll? Bunch? Bunch? Turd? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? No. Scroggin? No.
 Mayor Jordan, it looks like Council Member Bunch is back on now. Yes please take your vote. Yes. No. Okay, thank you. All right, still fails three to four. That's what I have. All right, thank you all. Now moving along to new business.
 ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled rpzd 21-0 0 3 for approximately 51 point 3 3 acres located at 2390 South Dead Horse Mountain Road to allow the development of 168 residential lots and one mixed use kit it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves RPCD 21-003 as described in exhibits A and B and C attached to the Planning Division's agenda memo, which allows the development of 168 residential lots in one mixed-use lot. Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville is hereby amended to reflect the zoning change and criteria provided in Section 1 above. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in southeast Fayetteville, just southwest of the Stone Bridge Golf Course and east of the Riverwalk subdivision, which you can see here on the map with the street names listed there. The property includes approximately 53 acres that touches Dead Horse Mountain Road to the northwest and also at an unusual narrow point about 1,200 feet just south of that.
 Although the property's largely level, it does slope down from Dead Horse Mountain Road. If you visited the property on that northwest corner, you probably saw that up at the road. It is fairly high before dropping down. Zoning in the area is almost uniformly low-density, with the adjoining properties entitled for a variety of agricultural or low-density single-family development.
 The property itself has had a brief, but pretty legislatively active history in Fayetteville. After annexation in 1997, the property remained agricultural and zoning for about 10 years before being rezoned to a planned zoning district. The villas at Stonebridge in 2009,
 This was characterized as a traditional neighborhood development at the time with a mixture of varying residential types, including single family, townhome, and condominiums.
 With no subsequent development, the PZD was determined to be expired. And in 2015, staff brought forward an ordinance to address several expired PZDs in the city of Fayetteville. At the time, it was recommended that this property return to its RA, residential agriculture zoning,
 The applicant petitioned the council to give it a RSF4 zoning, and it was ultimately approved that way with a bill of assurance restricting density. Two years later, a preliminary plat, which you see here on the right side of the screen, was approved for 135 single-family homes.
 And that brings us to today, and as a little bit more background, following on last week's agenda session, this property abuts a pair of unincorporated enclaves that you can see here. These were the result of a staggered series of annexations that began in 1997, which you can see in the turquoise here, and proceeded into the 2000s in a series of other ordinances that annexed bits and pieces of the area.
 Under the city's annexation policies, staff sought to close these islands in the mid 2000s with obviously fairly limited success. While the state of Arkansas does require annexing islands.
 or annexations or avoiding islands where practicable, it's not necessarily required that they be eliminated. And so they've remained today. So hopefully that clarifies those questions from agenda sessions, but please let me know later on as we move into that.
 and that brings us back to the request at hand the proposal is to rezone the property again to a planned zoning district designation the applicant has included four plan planning areas as a part of that planning area one includes 20 single family lots on the slope near dead horse mountain road this includes tandem lots behind street facing lots lots will be comparable in size to the rsf4 zoning district
 Planning Area 2, which will be more towards the center of the site, is more akin to the neighborhood conservation zoning district in that it's a narrower lot width and is going to be developed in more of an urban pattern with alley-loaded properties. Planning Area 4, or excuse me, Planning Area 3 wraps the property's west-eastern boundary near the golf course and is generally similar to the RSF4 zoning district in the size of the lots.
 And lastly, the more atypical of the four is planning area four. It includes an allowance for single two, three and four family dwellings and at a slightly higher density than the rest of the property. Additionally, it includes an allowance for small scale residential uses.
 Some architectural samples were provided with the project and this differs significantly from the previous PZD in that it moves away from a more traditional architecture to a more modern bend with some examples that you can see here. In evaluating the request, one of staff's primary considerations is of course the city's adopted land use plans.
 Among these is the future land use map and the property's infill score, neither of which fully suggests that the property is at a conventional infill location. As a residential rural area in the future land use map, the property is intended to either remain agricultural or be developed more densely, but in a conservation subdivision pattern where you keep your open spaces set aside and kind of trade off your density concentrating in other pieces of the property.
 Similarly, and in concern, considering the request in terms of city plan 2040 goals, the property's location on the periphery of Fayetteville is not generally consistent with the goal to discourage sprawl. On the flip side of this, conversely,
 Staff finds that the proposal's inclusion of varying lot sizes and potential for developing non-residential uses acknowledges the city's goals to create a variety of housing to increase attainable housing opportunities and to create a complete neighborhood where services are accessible to residents. Among other issues that staff considered was land use compatibility.
 Despite the largely rural nature of the area, the development pattern to the northwest, or excuse me, the northeast and the southwest, excuse me, both include a large amount of low-density single-family homes. The applicant's proposal is kind of inserting a finer grain of development to this, offering some on-site services and different housing sizes.
 On the subject of infrastructure, staff did note that the condition of Deadhorse Mountain Road, it is still a largely unimproved street. It's a two-lane street, but that does meet our minimum width requirements, but it doesn't include any sidewalks or curb and gutter. Improvements would certainly be necessary along the property's frontage and possibly off-site.
 Sanitary sewer is in the area but is off-site and would require extending a main to the lift series of lift stations located in and near the golf course. This is a similar requirement to the preliminary plot that came through a few years ago. Water is also available but may require some upgrading. There's a six-inch line along Deadhorse and a 12-inch line further south that the project could connect to.
 And while no floodplain or projected streams are on this property, there are hydric soils. If you had opportunity to go out there, if you've been on the golf course, you know it is in a somewhat lower lying area. Accordingly, a wetland study is also required at the time of development. And that's been included to really emphasize this as a development requirement when that is submitted.
 And lastly, and is possibly the crux of staff's recommendation, is the fact that the property is currently entitled despite the future land use designation. Considering the whole balance of issues, we felt that the applicant's proposal will take what is already permitted and create a foundation for a complete neighborhood in an area that is right now completely devoid of services and fully auto-dependent. And with that, thank you.
 Staff is recommending approval of the request with conditions. The Planning Commission also forwarded the item recommending approval, although by a fairly close split vote, it was five to three. The commissioners that supported it did express an appreciation for the varying lot sizes and potential for services. Other commissioners felt that this was unequivocally a sprawl location and adding more density to it will just simply aggravate that.
 The conditions that are included, which were in exhibit C with your packet, included that there needed to be some changes to the PZD booklet to make it consistent with code and also calling out the requirements for a traffic impact study and a wetland study when development does come in.
 The Planning Commission added a pair of additional conditions to try and improve the likelihood of services being provided. One was that lot 174 was developed commercially before residentially, and lots 82 to 96 would be allowed to develop with small-scale businesses. And just to put this into a spatial context for you, lot 174 is the one kind of in the middle of the site, and 82 to 96 are those just east of it.
 And lastly, public comment has been received from at least one neighbor who is opposed to this request, would prefer to see the property developed under its existing zoning district with a bill of assurance. Similarly, the golf course expressed concern at the Planning Commission about trespassing.
 And since then, I believe the council was forwarded an item from their representative with comments about the existing infrastructure and the appropriateness of the existing entitlement. And then they've asked that the item be left on this reading for further consideration.
 And with that, I'm certainly happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Bradley Bridges is here as the representative virtually. And I'm not certain if Tom Henley may be present virtually at this point as well or possibly in person. Thank you. Okay. The applicant would like to speak to the council. You have 10 minutes. Mr. Bridges, go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, council. Thank you, Mr. Kurth, for the report. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Just to add on to some of what Mr. Kerr said, a little bit of the history of the property. After the preliminary plat was approved for construction in 2018, for reasons, the development simply was not constructed due to
 the uh the cost associated with the uh the associated density so uh we went back to staff and and you know had some meetings and discussions on on what we could do in order to possibly improve that and um
 and through those discussions is ultimately how we ended up with the development as it is currently there are several items on on the plat as it's shown stub outs and and that sort of thing that that have kind of been a culmination of of all of those meetings the previous planning commission meetings for that previous preliminary plat
 We are with this PZD ultimately requesting an overall density of 3.5 units per acre. As Mr. Kurth noted, we have really worked hard with with staff to address concerns with with the lot and block layouts with to provide some diversity with the building types.
 and provided build two zones and all of these planning areas that we have. We've provided some open space, things of that nature. There will be a trail connection. And really ultimately, many of these things that we've worked through, everybody has obviously had the goals of the city plan 2040 in mind.
 and really trying to, you know, create a community that's walkable. Reduce some of those trips by adding some of that mixed use areas in there. And I just want to just, you know, also just touch on the utilities. As Mr. Kerr said as well, there is water right there along Dead Horse Mountain Road sewer. And obviously, since this is.
 strictly a zoning we're not we're not bringing through a concurrent development at this time you know we will obviously provide drainage that will meet or exceed drainage criteria manual and and address any of those those concerns at time of development once we bring the preliminary plat back through to the planning commission
 With that being said, we're okay with the conditions. One other thing I just want to point out, those architectural renderings that Mr. Kerr showed, this developer has some similar terrain as in planning area 1.
 currently under construction and so those those specific renderings are really meant for that specific area those those are slightly smaller lots and they are on a grade as Mr. Kurth mentioned there so those are really more geared toward toward that area and not those are not set in stone
 Just some work that the developer has currently been involved with in Fayetteville on the treetop subdivision you all may be familiar with. Other than that if council sees fit we would certainly like to see a vote. Hope to have your support and we'll be here to answer any questions or comments.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? In the 2009 PZD, so this would be for staff, what was the number of units allowed? Hopefully I got that year right. I believe that is the correct year. Allow me just a moment to get that ordinance pulled back up. I'm sorry, I thought I had it in front of me. This will take me a moment. I apologize. Will I get this? Okay.
 Council Member Scroggin, is there anything else I can answer in the meantime? Sorry, this is taking me a moment. Yeah. I guess what is the density on Peaceful Road, the subdivision right to the west? The Riverwalk subdivision is developed at approximately, I think it's between two and two and a half units per acre. That's at least I believe the first phase of the subdivision. I'm not as familiar with the subsequent phases though.
 Okay, how many easements, not easements, how many places of access are there to the subdivision? Is it just that one? To the Riverwalk subdivision has access at three existing points on Dead Horse Mountain. And there is a future phase that will connect further southeast along Dead Horse Mountain as well. So right now the houses that are proposed have free access?
 Are you talking about the existing Riverwalk subdivision? No, the new one. Oh, no, I'm sorry. The Riverwalk, the new one proposed would be two. I apologize. One on the northern end of the property and one of that sliver of land that comes out adjacent to Deadhorse as well. Does that sliver of land include that bridge? There's a bridge out there. I don't believe, I believe that's all level surface, but the applicant may be able to speak to that better than I.
 all right is the applicant want to answer that one question there is uh not a bridge along our frontage and uh council member scroggins i have an answer apologies that took me a minute to get that the pzd was approved the previous pzd was approved with an allowance for 350 dwelling units 45 000 square feet of non-residential space and parking the first phase was intended to just be single family lots and that was 91 units
 Okay, so significantly larger in 2009 than the 2018 attempt and then this one? Correct, yes. The preliminary plat in 2018, I believe it was about a hundred and... goodness, sorry I had this all at my fingertips at one point. I believe it was about 140 lots or so and this one is about a hundred and...
 168 excuse me okay yeah so these are pretty comparable to what was allowed almost a decade ago actually more than a decade ago I know we got an email that was talking about this the bill that these are pretty similar to what was allowed
 12 years ago and then there was a bill of assurance that actually limited this a little bit more but I think the climate uh the building climate five years ago was significantly different than than we are now uh we were way shorter on houses now than we were then uh however this is fun so I have a lot of mixed feelings about this one um based on the email I got I I hope we table this uh there were actually some
 legitimate questions sure we'll air them in public comment so I'm on the fence on this one I need to be decided no it's wait one way or the other and I do believe we need to table this Jonathan I have a question please
 You mentioned the sewer line, that there would have to be additional piping to the lift station. Is that maybe I misunderstood or maybe you could clarify that a little bit? And who pays for that?
 The, yeah I can clarify it, when, and this is based on the engineering staff's review of the 2016 plat, which would presumably have somewhat comparable comments given the moderate unit count increase, but generally what it would be required with this is the addition of a gravity main to the north. There's a series of lift stations in the Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club property and into that subdivision.
 And so, first of all, that main construction itself would be roughly almost 2,000 feet. And to do that, it would have to be laid right next to a force main, which would necessitate acquiring additional easement from the golf course to cross their property. If I may add to that.
 Oh, and sorry to answer your second part of your question, Council Member Turk, the developer would pay for those improvements, but ultimately it'd be the city's responsibility to maintain them. I know lift stations are often a concern for the city. They're not, they don't work on gravity. They have mechanical functions to them.
 Okay, so right now the developer would pay for all of those costs, the right-of-way purchase or easement if it was needed from the golf course, and the pipe and all the labor, and it would just be the city that would have to maintain the lift station. Would there be a requirement to upgrade or increase the capacity of the lift station? Sure.
 I don't believe so from my understanding of the the 2016 review of the project. I know Kraft and Toll also worked on that subdivision so I'm not certain if that's where Mr. Bridges was about to chime in given his engineering background and possible familiarity with that. Yes, Jonathan we did do a sewer study. Obviously if requested during development we could
 update that and and there is uh already recorded easement uh for the additional line to go to the lift station that's located there. Do you have questions from the council? Okay let's take some public comment. Everybody just one turn to speak. You had five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address.
 federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized Unmute so we can hear you All right folks that are here in the building need to start to line up in the chambers and keep six feet apart We will allow zoom comments first to give people time to line up Uh remove mask only when speaking so who would like to address this first? I'm, sorry taylor johnson, right? Go ahead
 Taylor Johnson, Hi there. Can everybody hear me? Taylor Johnson, Yeah. Taylor Johnson, Awesome. My name is Taylor Johnson. I'm the general manager here at Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club. I've been here for about eight years. I've got three quick topics on our run through Taylor Johnson, The new investments in the golf course, the compatibility of the new project and then obviously the easement issues and the financial
 concerns that we have from the new construction. Before I really get started I hope that everybody did receive the letter from our representative Robert Rhodes and if you haven't please make sure you review that. So I'll just get straight to it. The first thing that we want to talk about is
 is over the last 24 months, we have invested well over $500,000 into this course. We've improved course conditions. We've done a full pro shop remodel, renovated sand traps. We've increased our agronomical plan and we've even started a tree restoration project. We planted over 65 trees this past year. And we also continue, we also plan to continue that plan through 2021 this fall.
 So, you know, we are not going anywhere. We have obviously as much interest in the golf industry right now as ever. We are excited about that. We've also started a communication line with the watershed conservation and resource center to discuss and help figure out what's the best route with native habitat areas and plant restoration projects that we might have. Number two is really about the compatibility of the new subdivision.
 You know, I don't know of anywhere on the golf course where we have stub out leading to the golf course. All the other existing lots here at Stumberidge. I also live here in this community. It's two and a half units per acre or less.
 So we're not against growth. We just want it to be compatible and to make sense, obviously, for everybody. If the golf course is overcrowded or there's too many homes or there's issues because of that, we're not able to still produce the same product that we've worked so hard over the last 24 months to get to. And then third, I'll try to be short, is obviously with the easement issues to get access to the lift station. The amount of...
 construction and the amount of noise obviously would be a hindrance to the golf course. They would have to come across, I believe, the golf course. So we're looking at having to potentially shut down a few holes or even a hole nine, which obviously would be a major financial concern for us as well.
 You know, the biggest thing, I'll leave you with it, is we would really like to open up that line of communication with the applicant. We haven't received any word and nobody has reached out to us as of yet. So until we can get some communication and maybe resolve some of these issues, we would like to have it tabled and put it away. Okay.
 well it's it's got three readings right now it's on the first reading so it'll be two weeks before we hear it again except on the first screen not a problem um i appreciate you guys this time and that's all i've got for each night all right thank you who else addresses jason t can you hear me yeah
 Yep, this is Jason Teague. We live at 2492 South Dead Horse Mountain Road. Our property backs up to Planning Area 4. We bought our property shortly after I got some decent information on the bill of assurance that we've been talking about in 2016 that talked about the 2.5 units per acre and property.
 That kind of weighed in on what we were looking at. You know, we tailored their speaking to compatibility and all that stuff. It kind of fit the area. So I don't understand how we can maybe go to something a lot bigger as a concerned neighbor, as bigger as far as units. Yeah.
 So, that being said, planning area 4, I'm going to be speaking for my in-laws next door as well. They have a pond that I would say a third of it is over on this planning area. Nothing has been addressed about that. And as we talked about in the planning commission meeting, it was mentioned that they had been working with us. And I would like to say that nobody has contacted us at all.
 And now seeing the rendering showing the commercial lot directly behind my house. I, uh, I really have an issue with that. Um, and the sliver of land that's been talked about that is to the North of my property line. Um, I would assume that they would need more property to make that happen to get the full width of what a city street needs to be. But they, again, have not contacted me at all. So, um,
 I along with Taylor would love to have some conversation with these people so that's all I've got thanks. Okay thank you who else would like to address this? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council one the applicant is asked to hold it on this reading is everybody okay or what discussion would you like to have? It sounds good to hold it. Okay.
 um i do have a question the easements that they're talking about have to go across the golf course is that easements that they already have or easements they have to purchase i i can attempt to speak to that mayor i when i advised council member turk that they'd need additional easement it sounded like mr bridges uh disagreed with that my comments are based on the 2016 preliminary plot which did show the need to acquire more easement there's already a force main running from
 the lift station through the existing easement and having to put a gravity main right next to that does have minimum separation requirements. And looking at that 2016 plot, it shows
 Basically that they looked like they were looking for a 37 foot easement. I don't know if the size that would change at this point, but the existing easement is currently about 20 feet. So the documentation suggests that more may be needed.
 Maybe this is a question for Kit. Can we approve PZDs that are open-ended if they will be able to be successful or not? I certainly think it's something that you can consider about whether or not they would be able to serve their development with sewer, because that's obviously something that we like.
 Um, and so and they don't have condemnation powers to do that. So they would have to work out some sort of agreement with with their neighbor to do that. And the golf course representative did not sound too positive about that. So I certainly think this is an issue the city council needs to consider. OK, yeah, I definitely want that handled. Um, it's frustrating when.
 private entities put themselves in a situation where they think that the city or other Municipalities going to come in and use condemnation to fix their problem so I hope that that is that is settled and I don't know if we need to almost write the PZD is conditional on them being able to get these things that then I guess there's a two-year lapse Or how long?
 do they have to develop on a pzd before it lapses i guess that'd be for jonathan i'm sorry my headphones broke up could you repeat the question i apologize um if it's approved and they're trying to get uh the easement they need how long before the pzd lapses um planned zoning districts themselves don't lapse staff has brought them back before the council just in batches when
 when there do seem to be several of them because of the highly prescriptive nature of PZDs means that once you get an approval for it, it's very unlikely that it can develop under a different circumstance. The development, if development was concurrently proposed with this, that would be subject to one year approval, but the PZD itself does not have a defined expiration. Okay, thank you. Anything else from the council?
 okay well we'll hold it right here and for two weeks all right let's move on number two a resolution to amend the master street plan by removing a section of a planned neighborhood link connection along north oakland sign road and upgrading a section of east bridge water lane from a residential link street to a neighborhood link street um jonathan
 Oh, it's a resolution. That's right. Apologize. Does that mean I'm good to go? Yes. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Let me pull this up. There we go. All right. The four...
 going into the specific request i know it's late but i'm going to go through a little very brief high level background because i think that'll help the conversation and inform it uh city plan is of course the city's long-range land use plan uh with city plan 2040 being the current iteration within city plan there are a number of other planning documents and tools from the future land use map to the enduring green network and others for the purposes of the current item
 I'm going to be focusing on the Master Street Plan, which designates existing and future streets with the city's aspirational design for those streets. City Plan 2030's Master Street Plan, so this is the previous one, was expansive and extended well into the city's extra jurisdictional planning area, which is the areas beyond our city limits that we do have some authority over.
 With City Plan 2040, the Master Street Plan was tempered in response to input from Nelson Nygaard's mobility plan and our city's goals to deter outward growth. This is reflected very prominently in the planning area, of which you can see an example here. This is east of Fayetteville between Mission Boulevard to the south and Zion to the north. You see where many of those roads dropped off between the 2030 and 2040 plan areas.
 This brings us to the property in question, which is about halfway between Mission and Zion on the west side of Oakland Zion. The property is in Fayetteville's planning area. It's developed with a single family dwelling
 The property is currently, as I just showed, bisected northwest to southeast by a proposed realignment to Oakland Zion to connect its two sections that are divided by Bridgewater Lane currently. A lot split was recently proposed to staff on the property. Excuse me.
 And Fayetteville does have some oversight in the planning area to review items like this. During staff's review, it was found that the drafting requirement was needed to indicate the future street
 connection on the map, but not require any right-of-way dedication associated with that. There are concerns that if, whereas right-of-way dedication in some places of the city could be appropriate with the county, that could be exceeding our city authority and possibly, almost certainly exceeding the proportional impact of the request to the amount of right-of-way that would be required.
 The property owner expressed that this compromise, the requirement to include that indicated future street compromise the value of their lot that they're proposing. And so they submitted a master street plan amendment to staff with the city's restricted authority to require right away in the planning area, the limited realistic potential to realign Oakland Zion, given it's in the county.
 and the questionable benefits that the realignment would bring after staff evaluated it further. These all added up to staff supporting the request.
 As a part of any amendment that the city council would entertain, staff recommends amending the master street plan more expansively than the applicant has proposed, including removing that full realignment from between the two sections of Oakland Zion, not just on the applicant's property.
 and also designating the portion of bridge water in between those sections of Oakland-Zion as a neighborhood link to create that consistent potential street design through the area out into the future. The Planning Commission agreed largely with staff and forwarded the item recommending approval. There was one dissenting vote that did have a concern about loss of future north-south connectivity in the area.
 As an amendment to the master street plan, the items next stop was the transportation committee where it was forwarded three O. I believe all four members were in attendance, but one may not have been available for roll call. But from my watching the minutes, it looked like all four had verbally expressed some support for the item.
 During all this process, staff did hear one comment from a neighbor to the north who was opposed to removing that portion of the master street plan. They preferred to see the street alignment remain to accommodate development in the area. And that is all I have for you all tonight. I'm happy to take questions. And I have Ms. Kim Piepenbrock available virtually as the applicant for the item. Thank you.
 Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Ms. Piepenbrook? Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes. Sorry, let me turn. I apologize. Well, good evening, Mayor Jordan and council members. Thank you for allowing me time this evening to present my situation. I've been a resident in East Fayetteville for 21 years and have enjoyed and taken great pride in living there.
 I'm asking the council to please remove the proposed road from the master city map, the 2030 to 2040. I'm trying to sell a back portion of that property, split that five acre lot into 2.8 acres in the back and I would keep 2.2 in my home up in the front. We were creating a track split with this proposal, proposed road cutting right through the middle of the properties
 It doesn't adequately allow room for a new home to be constructed unless they're going to have a road right in front of their home. I was under contract last December 2020. Buyers were aware that the proposed road might happen in the future. But then we had to add the road on the survey. And when we did that, they thought that that was very invasive. And they backed out one week before we closed. And it was a very devastating process.
 blow to me financially. I'm a widow and I'm reduced to one income and plus I take care of my elderly mother.
 I'm currently, fortunately I'm under contract again with new buyers and even though the road may or may not ever be, if it doesn't take place in the future, the buyers are still not willing to move forward with this on the survey. And I was told that the only way that it could come off the survey was to go ahead and take it off the Master City Planning Map to remove it. And so here we are.
 I'm afraid this road will create a speedway through our backyard and residential neighborhood, potentially lowering the property values monetarily and any resale. Our neighborhood is full of mature trees and creeks and wildlife, large estate homes around us. I'd just be forever grateful if we could keep it like that in that area.
 As you just heard that it was passed through two committees favorably, seven to one and city planning and unanimously in the transportation department.
 I am not trying to be difficult and I'm not wanting to stop progress with our ever-growing city but I wish we could compromise and reevaluate another option by leaving and utilizing all of Oakland's Ion Road I just have questions on what would happen to that road if they did cut through my back What happens to the Oakland's Ion that exists in the front?
 And then you'll still have to do stop signs at the corner there, continuing on crossing Bridgewater and that Oakland Zion going to the north. So I don't understand why you would want to spend all those taxpayer dollars just to move a stop sign from one point to the other. But once again, that's not my decision.
 Just the feasibility factor alone of going through the backyards, it just, like I said, it just doesn't make sense as far as tax dollars go. And once again, it disrupts all the charm and beauty of our neighborhood. You may ask, well, why are you dividing the property if you want to keep that look and feel?
 And once again, I'd like to say that I'm under financial hardship. And by being able to split the lot, it allows me to live in my 2.2 acres up front in my home for the rest of my life. And if I had a choice between choosing between a family living behind me in a nice home or looking at a road, I'd choose the family anytime. I want to thank you, Mayor Jordan. Thank you.
 and council members for considering this. And just a special thank you to all the people involved that have, pardon me, I'm getting emotional, that have just been so kind and helpful to get me to this point to where I am. I just really wish you would consider leaving it as it is for now. And I thank you once again for my time. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Okay. Let's take some.
 what questions do we have from the council on this um mayor i have a question um i guess i'm a little confused here so who started the proposal to realign the road um who who did that are you asking
 Are you asking, I apologize if I'm not clear, are you asking how it got on the Master Street Plan or who initiated the request to remove it from the Master Street Plan? I guess I'm asking how it got on the Master Street Plan. What process did it go through to get on there? That's a good question. It predates my time with the City. I went back a few decades or a couple decades of Master Street Plans and it's been on there for a while.
 I think it's certainly a product of trying to create much longer range, longer vision, circulation goals in the city. As we've matured in our thinking or changed in our thinking, I think we've certainly established that instances in the planning area where we are improving streets may not be as valuable as we once thought when the city was growing rapidly and outwardly.
 short answer those I don't know how that one specifically got on there I think every time the master street plan came back staff evaluated and did not see a strong cause to remove it and so it was left on there thank you okay well Teresa I can probably answer some of that if I just look at Buford Road out west that was on a master street plan probably when kid Williams was on the City Council so that went back to the 80s so I would say that's been on there
 i will tell you that especially in the past there were some strange roads i saw on the east of town going over bluffs and i asked our public works director why do we do that he said oh they're just lines on a map we we take a much more careful attitude to that now one of the questions we have in the council okay let's take some public comments everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration and broken into segments of
 three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, federal residence first, press star nine on your phone, or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you.
 in-person folks that are in the building right now need to start to line up out behind the podium and please stay six feet apart we will take zoom comments first to give people that are in the building time to come up and line up remember remove masks only when speaking so who would like to address this first okay i don't see anybody from the public here
 So I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Banks? Yes. Heard? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Eddie? Yes. Yes.
 Scroggins. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. That concludes our business. Any announcements? Anybody got any announcements? Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.