I'm going to call the City Council meeting of April 21st, 2015 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Here. Petty? Tennant? Here. Schottmeyer? Here. Luture? Long? Here. Gray? Here. Marsh? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in reciting the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to...
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. Okay, the first order of business is that we have an item that's going to be pulled from the consent agenda, and that's item number eight.
 which is the Garver contract resolution authorized the professional engineering services group Garver LLC for on-call engineering services for the airport in an amount not to exceed $20,000 and to approve a budget adjustment that item is going to be pulled on meet the first order of new business correct so y'all first order of business first order right after consent that's what I meant did I say new business well that's why y'all need to watch me okay
 Number one on consent, approval of the April 7, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $15,225 representing donation revenue to animal services for the fourth quarter of 2014.
 Number three, a resolution of award bid number 15-21 to authorize the purchase of bulk oils and lubricants from Frost Oil Company of Van Buren in variable amounts and for varying unit prices is needed for a term of one year from the date of award with the option to renew four additional one-year terms.
 All right. Number four, resolution to award bid number 15-26 to authorize a one-year contract with Cruise Uniforms and Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $15,387.60 with four consecutive one-year renewal options for the purchase of uniforms for the Federal Fire Department.
 Number 5, a resolution to amend Resolution 162-10 to revise the site plan for the remainder of Lowry Lane subdivision by reducing the number of single-family lots to 10 and by reconfiguring the public access location to the natural park area. Number 6, a resolution to authorize a contract with Casco Industries to...
 Incorporated for the purchase of variable amounts of replacement bunker gear for the federal fire department for the unit prices of $1165 for Constructural firefighting personnel protective coats and $850 for structural firefighting personnel protective pants on an As needed basis through March 9 2018 pursuant to a cooperative bid process to the city of Springdale number seven
 A resolution to approve a contract with Electra Link Incorporated to RFP 13-11 for the purchase and installation of an access control panel for City Hall and development services in the total amount of $69,634.30 to authorize a 10% project contingency in the amount of $6,963.43 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 8 is...
 been pulled and would be the first order of business after the consent. Number nine, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with the University of Arkansas for placement of a university-owned gas service line within the city of Pettival right-of-way. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon yes, Eddie yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, March yes. OK first order of business after the consent is this resolution resolution authorized professional engineering service group, the Garver LLC for engineering services for the airport and to approve tax or number one for on call engineering and surveying services for the airport in the amount of not to exceed $20,000 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. As a way of introduction, I don't know if I've met every single one of you personally, but I'm Johnny Roscoe. I'm the airport director down at Drakeville. So thank you for the continuing support you give to the airport throughout the year. The reason that item was pulled, Mayor and Council, was that originally when it went through to consent,
 The package included the original contract we had on with Garver, who is our new civil engineering firm voted by committee several weeks ago. The FAA requires we have a civil engineering firm on contract to advise us over a five-year period.
 The task order is what was read into consent and that was an on-call contract for up to $20,000 worth of on-call work with Garver, similar to what they have with the waterworks department. So what we'd like entered in as new business is the contract which brings Garver on board as our civil engineering firm as well as the task order for the on-call $20,000 on-call work.
 And that's exactly what we did. We revised the resolution to include both of the items as requested by the airport And that's what was given to you initially by our city clerk when she emailed that out to you and you now have a copy Of that in front of you and so we would need a motion to amend to the resolution as presented So moved second motion second to amend to the resolution presented any discussion on that Any public comment on that?
 Bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmer. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, under unfinished business. Now we need a motion to actually pass the resolution. I move. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sorry. Thank you, Mayor. Any public comment on that? All right, bring it back to the council.
 Under which police call the row yes. Shot my mom yes, yeah, March yes, now I'm not finished business. There were no orders to men 33.3 to 9 eligibility of citizen volunteers to serve on city boards commissions and committees to remove the restriction on the number of consecutive terms citizen may serve.
 I'll entertain motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In order to amend section 33.329 eligibility of citizen volunteers to serve on city boards, commissions and committees to remove the restriction on the number of consecutive terms a citizen may serve. I don't really have anything new on this. I brought it forward two weeks ago. For
 For the purpose of just saying that anyone in our citizenry can apply for any of the boards, not an arbitrary rule saying they can't. It just gives them the freedom to, and I think that that's the message we need to send to our constituents is that we want to engage them at that level. It also gives us the ability as a council to pick from the best pool of applicants. That's all this resolution is about. I'll leave it at that. I know that there was some discussion at the last meeting, but a couple people weren't
 Okay, what's the council what discussions we have from council on this we'll get some public input, too I'd like to leave it on this second reading. Okay Any public comment on this? Okay, bring back to the council set the wishes the council leave it on secondary everybody good thing Okay
 All right number 2. And all this to man 72.0 3 parking prohibited in certain places the federal code by enacting a new subsection to prohibit parking on a city street front of and blocking a mailbox, I'll entertain a motion to second read. The motion second go to the second reading. So would you please color.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An Ordinance Amends Section 72.03, Parking Prohibited in Certain Places of the Fable Code, by enacting a new subsection to prohibit parking on a city street in front of and blocking a mailbox.
 Well, we left it on the last reading just to take some more comment and think it over just a little bit more. I've talked to quite a few more constituents and they all think that this is necessary because they have issues with this. We have a letter in front of us from Sarah Harrell, the POA president, Crystal Springs subdivision that's in Ward 4. They have all their mailboxes on one side of the street. When someone blocks one mailbox, they block more than one.
 It's becoming quite a problem in some areas. She talks about in this letter how she has to mediate neighbor disputes and it would be nice to have a legal recourse for that. I know that Chief Tabor, I know you've spoken with many people over the years that have claimed that people were blocking their mailboxes and we always thought that there was a regulation in our code against it.
 What do you see as the need here or how do you address these concerns? I did run a query to see how many complaints we had had on people blocking mailboxes. So in 2014 we had a total of 20 complaints of people blocking mailboxes.
 parking complaints where mailbox was blocked. I also done a little just asking around the department to see what some of the officers thought, and they thought that because over the years we haven't had anything that makes that a violation, that some people have been dealing with it for years, and they know not to call just because there's nothing illegal about it. So some thought that maybe the reality of it was more than that 20, but people just didn't call because they knew there was really nothing we could do about it.
 Thank you. I appreciate it. And one other question. Are your officers, I know they're busy, would they be patrolling looking for this situation? Or would this be more like most of our zoning regulations where, you know, we don't generally patrol looking for zoning violations, but where someone calls in and complains and then they come out to look at it?
 Well, you said the word zoning violations twice. We don't enforce zoning violations, but parking. Code, I'm sorry, code. Yeah, yeah. You know, I would hate to say that because, like we talked about last time, an officer uses his discretion every day. So for me to say that if an officer drove by and saw somebody parked in front of a mailbox, he wouldn't take the initiative to write that person a ticket is probably a stretch. Yes.
 It's all just going to depend on the circumstances, the time of day, how busy we are and and those types of things with to make you a guarantee that an officer would just not take that initiative to do that on his own without a complaint. I'm not comfortable doing that right. Thank you is what it is. Can ask you for sure chief I was asked by a constituent the if this was a complaint driven not just not just a straight.
 violation violation then if it was complaint driven can you walk through the process of what that means to your officers someone calls and says someone's in parking in front of my mailbox over and over and over then you take that and and the officer investigates or how does that work
 Well, I don't know that investigates truly the right word. I think when I think about complaint-driven, a call would have to be made to dispatch of someone complaining about someone being in front of their mailbox. And then when an officer arrived at that location, if there was in fact a car still parked,
 in parking for the mailbox once again, I think he could use his discretion he could elect to go, you know, obviously maybe run the tag figure out who the owner is find their address, go speak with them. And you know, just make them aware that they can't park there or I think he could elect to write him a ticket. But when I think about complaint driven, that's what I think of that somebody is actually calling the police department dispatch center and making a complaint that their mailbox is blocked. Okay, thank you very much.
 Yes, sir. Chief, so when somebody calls your dispatch center, they're calling 911, is that correct? Or are they calling the non-emergency number? It's a non-life-threatening event. Okay, thank you.
 any other questions for the chief yes adele not really any questions just a statement that i've talked to several people about it and who kind of like alan some other people thought that we did already have an ordinance and it just seems like the the courteous thing to do so i would certainly be in favor of our having an ordinance so that the policeman can the officer can warn the person or
 uh... you know talk to them and say we can't do this and and i bet it will stop at that point i think this is an excellent idea
 Luckily, our records management system is pretty robust. So if someone's issued a warning, whether it be for parking in front of a mailbox or a speeding warning or anything, that's entered into our records management system. So if a person did receive a warning for parking in front of a mailbox on the second call, the next officer can actually run that tag number and see if they've been issued any warnings before. So that's a pretty nice thing to have access to.
 Anything else for the Chief? Yes. What would be the penalty?
 I'm not sure. I think Kit would have to answer that. I sent you all a memo on April 9th discussing that. It's like all the other prohibited parking ones that we're putting this in the same section of it. Section O, so there's a bunch of them before. It's $70 is the penalty if paid before the citation has to be issued or served. And then if that has to go forward, then that's another $25 fee just for that.
 So, $70 is the penalty for this, just like all the other ones in that particular section number. And, of course, that's always up to the judge, too. The judge can't go higher than that, but the judge does not have to pronounce the entire amount and he could actually suspend the entire amount if the judge wants to. The judge has that kind of discretion.
 Yes, Mark. I have another question for Kit. In reading Section O, and I may be wrong here, I have no clue, do we have to mark these areas as non-parking? No, that's not part of this particular statute. However, it should be denoted according to another section. That's what I'm thinking.
 At this point going to probably bring forward a section. That's more that will explain that a little bit better, but obviously There has to be proper notice before Someone can be held in violation. Although You know if you're blocking a hydrant or you're you're blocking somebody's driveway. There's no curb to cross
 to paint there and yet I don't think there'd be any problem with the fact that you could get a ticket because in fact you are You know breaking the law on the law has been put on the code is on the internet as well as of course It's certain city clerk has copies of the code and there is a presumption that people know the law just like any of the state laws There's not always signs up saying you can't burgle somebody's house, but you're gonna get penalized if you do and
 Mayor, I might add for Alderman Kenyon. We do plan to bring a revision to the council that leaves the traffic superintendent the opportunity who may mark streets. There are parts of town that we do that currently around the university, for instance, so that we have turning radiuses for our solid waste divisions. Paint those curbs yellow. We do red painting next to fire hydrants. So in some areas we do it, but we don't mark the distance from a stop sign on every street within the city.
 So we're going to change the code, which will take. Good. Because I just, I can only imagine that we're going out to paint a yellow curve on every mailbox throughout the city. That's right. This is what inspired us, Alderman Kenyon, when I saw that code section.
 I was like you, I was kind of pull your hair out if we're going to go forward with that. Yeah, very inspirational indeed. Yes, they are. Okay. I didn't know if we needed to clarify it in this section, but obviously you're working on it, and I look forward to that revision. One more question, Chief, if I can ask. Sure.
 Has anybody asked the Postal Service, do they have a law? I was under the impression there was a federal law of some sort, but there's not? Not that we can find. I think that the Postal Service has their own internal rule that just tells the postal workers if the mailbox is blocked, you're not obligated to leave the mail. But we couldn't find any kind of city ordinance, state law, or federal law that prohibited that. Okay. And, Alderman Tennant, I'll confirm that I actually spoke with the Postmaster here in town, and that is okay.
 I got to assume we would I just want to make sure we said that out. I actually thought it was a federal law and it's not. It's not like parking in front of a fire hydrant. I mean it's it's it's there's not a law against it. I did have somebody in one neighborhood tell me that they got a note from their delivery mail delivery person who couldn't get in front of it for a couple of days and so they actually left a note on the door and said. Don't know whose car that is but this is why you're not getting your mail.
 You can't expect them always to do that. I understand. Thank you very much. Anything else? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Here's one. Okay. Yes, ma'am. Come up.
 Mr. Mayor, good to see you. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington. And I know y'all have given this a lot of discussion, and I've heard some of it, and it's reasonable. But in my view, it seems to me like we're on the fast track to pass an ordinance prohibiting every little infraction in the city without making an attempt to first resolve it
 at the neighborhood level. And I think if neighbors would just talk to each other, they could resolve this themselves. We cannot pass laws prohibiting every single little infraction that occurs in our society. That's just unrealistic, and I think this is unreasonable. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah, Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive.
 I did see in the Gazette Telegraph there was an article about this ordinance and they mentioned that the Postal Service doesn't have a rule and they're the federal government and they're the people delivering the mail. And I just want to kind of echo what the lady just said. Is this the same fine that you'd have for parking in front of a fire hydrant? $70 plus $25? It is.
 I mean, that's a much more serious matter, and that's something that I think everybody knows from the first day he drives or she drives. You don't park in front of fire hydrants, and you don't block people's driveways. This, to me, is... It just seems, again, disproportionate. I think at a prior city council meeting, the chief was not in favor of this kind of ordinance. I don't know if the police would want to have another excuse to stop people or run plates. It just seems like...
 maybe like a plastic surgeon, should sometimes tell the patient, no. I mean, it's just a little too much surgery. It's a little too intrusive. It's more than what the city needs to do. Even if you say there were 100 complaints, it's still only one out of 1,000 people making a complaint, and it just seems to me a little bit overwrought. But I don't think it's immoral, and I don't think it's
 I just have to question whether the city council is going to legislate on everything that everybody does anywhere in the city. As you're talking about one minute delivery versus nine hours of parking. And there is a proportionality issue here. And I think it should either be a lower fine than a fire hydrant or raise the fine for a fire hydrant. because that's a very serious matter of public safety. But I don't see this, this is more a matter of public courtesy or even personal courtesy.
 Thank you. Hi, Laura Phillips, 2055 South Klein. I did think I'd talk again. But it's not a frivolous thing. If you have disabled or elderly or incapacitated neighbors and they can't get to their mailbox because somebody has parked in front of it, that's a reasonable thing to make allowances for and make a rule for. I didn't know you couldn't do that, but I live on a one-way street, a dead-end street, and sometimes people park...
 kind of in my driveway or kind of in front of my mailbox and it would be nice to be able to instead of just keep saying hey could you not do that have some power behind it and make there's a rule it's not just a hey could you it's it's a thing it's a rule it's a law we have and that's sometimes the difference between getting a card from your grandchildren or your social security money or the coupons that you're depending on it's that's a humanity thing we don't know these people's situation
 And it's our job to make sure that they can get to their mailbox. It shouldn't be an issue. I don't understand why it's an issue, but it's a reasonable fine. You don't park in front of a fire hydrant so that we can put out the fire at their house. You don't park in front of their mailbox so they can get their cards from their grandkids. Thank you. Thank you. Would anyone else like to address this on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Maybe we should go to the second. Oh, sorry. Excuse me. How long do you want it?
 Yeah, I just want to say two things real quick. And just to address a couple of things. Justin, you brought up the complaint driven portion of it. And we did look at that. I specifically wondered if we could write it into the ordinance to be complaint driven. But we can't really have selective enforcement, even though most of the codes in Fayetteville are complaint driven, without saying they're complaint driven. We enforce a lot of things that way. And someone made the point of, you know,
 how critical it is, but one of the complaints I received from my constituent was a 90-something-year-old man, and he was trying to get his medicine out of his mailbox. That was one of the reasons I went forward with this, because I feel that's kind of urgent. One day may be too late. And the person who wrote the letter to us, her name's Sarah from Crystal Springs, she talked to me about wanting to talk to her neighbors, but having something to show them when she did.
 So those are just a few points I wanted to bring up. Thank you. Okay. Now, Adela, you wanted to? I agree. Yes, I'll make a motion, but I agree. I think for us to just act like it's a frivolous thing is not exactly right. I've always been told that it was.
 against the federal law to use the mailbox for anything other than our official mail.
 And from time to time, people will say, I'll come by your house and leave something there in your mailbox. Well, I've been told that that is not supposed to happen. And so I think it is, I think our mailbox is a very important thing. And I hadn't even thought about the medicine, but there are a lot of folks who get their medicine through the mail, so that is important. So I just, I feel like this is an important ordinance for us to have in the city to protect our citizens.
 Okay. And I make a motion that we go to the third and final reading. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Tenant? No. Shopmar? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh?
 is that the end of business on this item well i mean you often talk some more on people too yeah sure um i'm not against the i want to say that i'm not against the intention of the ordinance but i think that it's going a little too far in terms of its enforcement um i think a 70 fine is excessive for this by uh for this violation i'm fine with it being a violation on the books um so i'd like to make a motion for an amendment this would just add uh two sentences at the end of the
 The current section pursues say the penalty for the first two offenses shall be limited to a warning and second will say the penalty for an offense should be limited to $25. Second. Maybe there's a better way I word that. I'll defer to the attorney. Since we're leaving it on the second reading, I would suggest if you're going to have different penalties for this particular subsection in this larger section, which is already covered in the penalty provision, that we need to have a brand new section just for this.
 so that we don't get confused at parts. Some of this section is punished by one way and some by the other. Some have to have warnings and some don't. I'll be happy to work with you, and I would prefer that we just leave it on the second reading and let me work with Oldman Petty to bring up an amendment that would probably be an entirely new amendment
 section and not just a part of an existing section where the penalty provisions already spelled out in the code. It's fine with me. I'll withdraw the motion. Okay. Thank you. That's a question. I have to find that. Yes. So you, so the first offense basically a warning and then $25 after that? The first two offenses. First two. I call it a three strike rule. Oh. So the first two are warnings?
 I'm going to be working with city attorney on this. Are we and then the 3rd is $25. Yes, sure. Can ask for clarification. So the is the goal there then to put something together and then give us in the public time before the next meeting to see what it is and I think it can go public as soon as the attorney has a draft ready.
 And so maybe this is a question for the attorney. So what happens if a person says, well, it's worth $25 for me to park here. So I'm just going to keep parking. What happens on four and five and six and seven? You don't need to ask me. You need to ask the sponsor of this. Because I can hear some people saying that. I need a parking place. I'm going to park here. I've got $25. Sure. So what are we going to do? Make the same argument about any amount. No.
 I think we'll take a look at the parking ordinance or I will and take cues from that. And that that they would on 70, you know, 70 is a little more. I mean, at first, I mean, I just think it's amazing that people don't know they're not supposed to park in front of a mailbox. I just think it's totally amazing that people feel like it's OK.
 So, you know, I personally think we need to leave it at $70, but whatever. We'll be decided next time. We're going to hold it right here on second ready for two weeks, right? Mm-hmm. And then we'll go through this again. All right? Everybody good? Mm-hmm. Okay. Well, in the next order of business that I have is a public hearing that I'm going to open.
 I'm a resolution to approve the issuance of not to exceed 50 million dollars. I got it right this time. The public finance authority revenue bonds and to finance or refinance certain costs of various projects including the acquisition and renovation of 91 of the 91 unit park
 Lake Apartments located at 1753 East Zion Road on behalf of American Agape Foundation Incorporated of San Antonio, Texas. Paul, I believe you have this. I have my composure today, Lionel, so it is $50 million. I was a little taken aback last time. This is a very good project that I'm excited about bringing forward. What this is is a project to do some renovations.
 to the Park Lake Apartments, which is up on East Zion Road. It has over 90 units. They serve mostly low and lower income families. This is a bond issue that would be issued by public authority out of Wisconsin, which has national jurisdiction. We would in no way have any liability for the bonds. They would not be issued in the name of Fayetteville.
 So therefore, we would have no responsibilities as far as project fund or the debt service payments back. So this looks like a very good project for the city of Fayetteville. And again, I'm happy to bring it forward. We have Mike Goodwin. Any audience tonight, if you have any particulars or specifics on the project, you will be doing the project. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. And what public comment do we have on this?
 Thank you, though. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Good evening, Mayor. My name is Star Van Allen. I am a resident at Park Lake Apartments. I urge the entire council strongly to approve this bond issue. I can give you 91 reasons why you should do so. That's the number of tenant...
 apartments we have and for many years the tenants I have been talking with many of them since I've lived there for many years they have been very upset and concerned about the fact that Park Lake Apartments has been deteriorating over the years and there's been no movement to respond to people's requests for repairs to their units supposedly because there's not enough money to do so
 We have 18 streetlights in the parking lot, only four of them work.
 And it's been that way for a long time many residents refuse to go out at night because they are fearful of either stumbling or being accosted The parking lot is in serious state of disrepair throughout There are many sections that are under muddy water from curb to curb during heavy rains The residents are upset that there are no screens on the outside of their windows so that when they open up their windows to let in the fresh air so come in the wasps and all the bugs and the mosquitoes
 Many of residents have made requests repairs to their units Some of them are just a matter of inconvenience some of them are real safety issues that have not been addressed for years and so I Urge that this bond issue be passed so that these renovations can be made I can assure American agape that if these
 repairs are made, if the property is restored to its former value, if requests for resident repairs are made, that they will certainly have the appreciation and respect of the residents for a long time. Thank you. Thank you for your comments very much. Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. I don't have a comment, I just have a question. I guess I needed to read more about this.
 $50 million would work out to $500,000 per unit. Paul, you want to? And why is the city even considering this if the city isn't on the bonds? I mean, why is this a public matter? So I just have questions about what's going on here. We'll get those answered for you. Paul? That's the maximum of a bond issue that the authority can issue. There will be several projects bonded together and that holds the transactional costs down.
 So it's not just this project, it will be other projects other where in the United States. Two, it's a federal authorized bond, TEFRA it's called. And in the legislation that the federal government passed, it requires a public hearing in the municipality or locality where the project is being done. So it asks for a public hearing to make sure that that locality
 generally does not oppose it, and it's a legal requirement. So those are the answers to that question. If there are any more, I'll be happy to answer them. Okay. Thank you, Paul. Mr. Mayor, could the representative come forward that came here with Paul? I just have one question for him. Sure.
 Sir, I guess you heard the tenant's description of some of the problems in that apartment complex now? Yes, sir. Now, how much are you planning to spend on this particular project if these bonds are passed?
 Right now our repairs budget is $582,000. And will that bring, will that respond to all of the repair items that he was talking about? The one that I haven't addressed but I've got it on the first contingency list is the parking lot lighting. And I didn't put it on there because I have a local contractor that was supposed to give me a bid to put in high efficiency, low energy lighting.
 But I do have a contingency in the budget, and if he comes within the contingency and it's there, I'm going to add that as soon as we can. Okay, thank you. And the screens, the area about the screens, I'm going to look at that, maybe beat up on a contractor, because we're going to change out all the windows and put in sealed double-pane windows throughout the property. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? All right, we'll bring it back to the council.
 Yes, Chester. I just have a quick comment. I hope that the council will join me in approval of this. This has been something over the years that has been brought to my attention several times. I've talked to a few of the residents, and I think it's certainly needed. This particular apartment complex is...
 I think that the the the things that they are asking for are completely reasonable. I mean you you've got to have safe lighting in the parking lots and you've got to have windows and doors and things like that that that work properly so I I applaud this and I think everyone for for
 I'm not going to be supporting this because I definitely will as much needed over there. Thank you just anybody else. We have a motion second pass a resolution. So would you please call any final comments. Okay, so which please call the row union. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
 Number one, the ordinance approving Vacation 15-4986 submitted by Riverwood Homes LLC, properties located at 2991...
 Labrador died to vacate portions of an existing utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are to hereby vacates and abandons the following utility easement described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached and labeled exhibit a shall be filed in the office of recorder of the county and Recorded in the deed records of the county in section 3 that this vacation approval subject to following condition of approval Any damage or relocation of existing facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense. I
 Chair Mayer. This property is located in the Crystal Springs subdivision, which is in West Fayetteville. There are four undeveloped lots within this phase of Crystal Springs with a, contains a 35 foot utility easement along their northern property line. This request is to vacate a portion of that easement along the four lots, leaving a 27 foot utility easement in its place. There are utilities within that utility easement, thus the condition for any damage or relocation to be at the owner and developer's expense.
 But all utilities have signed off and the Planning Commission voted 8 to 0 in favor of this request. Okay, what questions do we have in the Council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, bring it back to the Council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Chottemire? Yes.
 Yes, right. Yes, March. Yes. An ordinance approving the AC 15 dash 49 86 submitted by Riverwood homes LLC for properties located at 29 91 Labor night to vacate portions of an existing utility. OK. We have a motion to say we go to the third and final read. So would you please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An order is approving VAC 15-4986 submitted by Riverwood Homes LLC for properties located at 2991 Labor Diet to vacate portions of an existing utility easement. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Sandra would you please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Heady? Yes. Kennan? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Sarah? This Thursday evening at 6 p.m. we'll have a Ward 1 meeting at the Fayetteville Senior Center. Oh, hell. Monday, April 27th, 6 p.m. we'll have a Ward 4 meeting in room 111 of City Hall. It's open to everyone, so.
 Hope to have a big turnout. Mayor, tomorrow, Wednesday, April the 22nd, the city is celebrating Earth Day. We have an event called Wild About Earth Day. It's a volunteer event that begins at 12.30 and goes until 5.30. We encourage citizens to come out. We will have a litter cleanup along our trails and wildflower planting along the trail system.
 Supplies, trash bags will be provided by the Recycling and Trash Division for litter pickup, and seeds provided for planting for those who volunteer. The mayor will be doing an Earth Day proclamation at 1230, and the event is beginning and located at the Marion Orton Recycling Center on North Street. I hope that members of the council can attend. If you don't, anything else? Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.