I'd like to call the City Council meeting of May 2, 2017 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. John McSherrin. Present. Alan Long. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the republic for which
 Indivisible, with liberty and justice. Well, good evening, everyone. I'm sure we can keep you entertained tonight. The first order of business we have tonight is the, under City Council Meeting Presentations, Reports, and Discussion Items, number one, CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated 10 Years of Cumulative Safety Award, I believe. Who has that?
 Nobody has that. Yes, Tim. Here we go. I'll do it for water too. Mr. Mayor, actually I thought that you had that. You thought I had that? I thought you had that. Mark, do you have that? Well, I will say that we were pretty pleased to be notified that the CH2M Hill was removed.
 given an award for 10 years of no timeout for accidents. This is incredible considering the amount of operations that they manage for the city of Fayetteville. And we did want to give them recognition in front of the complete city council from Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee. So why don't you call them up? Come on. Anyone? Yes.
 Mayor, we might also, while we're doing this recognition, they did receive the Governor's Safety Award for a safe workplace of 10 years with no lost time accident, which is incredible within this. They've already got the award. No wonder we don't have it. Denise, she snatched it right up, didn't she?
 Thanks a lot, guys. We certainly appreciate the way that you run our operations, and it says a lot for the integrity that you bring to the operations for our wastewater management. Thanks. I would like to add on, you all have been great partners for this city, and you've done fantastic jobs over the many years that you have run the wastewater treatment plants. You just do an excellent job, and you make my job, the administration job, the city council job, a whole lot easier. So thank you all very much. Thanks.
 I'm Yuen Tran, I'm with the CH2M Sustainability Director and on behalf of CH2M and the staff at the Fayetteville facility, really appreciate the Mayor, Council and everyone for acknowledge our success in safety. I'm proud to say if it wasn't for a few accidents that were not our fault, we would have been over 30 years without any incidents.
 The recognition is really well deserved. Denise used to be the safety champion for the projects and I want to recognize her for that effort too. And Mayor Miller with me, he's also the project manager there and they kept up a very great operation. The very first and foremost is keep everybody safe. So thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all.
 Very well deserved. On the next order of business is consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 18th, 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviations Incorporated for the airport hangar at 4568 South School Avenue and office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $4,200 per month.
 A resolution to approve change order number three to the contract with TNT Incorporated of Van Buren, Arkansas in the amount of $21,096 for road and parking improvements at Wilson Park and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $30,000 recognizing revenue from the court automation fund for upgrades to the access control and video surveillance systems used by the federal district court.
 Number five, a resolution to approve professional engineering services agreement with Hawks where engineers incorporated any amount not to exceed $71,820 for engineering services related to the elimination of master sewer lift station and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $7,182. Number six, a resolution to waive and release all rights of first refusal within paragraph 5C of the real estate agreement.
 Conveyance Agreement of October 4, 2016 and the October 13, 2011 Quick Claim Deed conveying the properties of the Washington Regional Medical Center. Number seven, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the University of Arkansas Razorback Transit with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms in the annual amount of $250,000 for the provision of public transit services within the city of Petmole.
 Number 8, a resolution to authorize the settlement agreement with Drake Street Property LLC, 1155 Properties LLC, and RPM1 Properties Federal LLC, a.k.a. RPM1 Properties LLC, concerning condemnation, litigation filed for the water and sewer relocation associated with the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department Project BB0414-2,
 Interstate 49 and Highway 112 interchange. I will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read. Mark. So moved. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Would the mover second the motion? Yes. I can't say it until he motions. Oh, sorry. There we go. Okay.
 Batch? Yes. LaGerre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Okay, we have nothing on unfinished business. Under new business number one, an ordinance replaced the bill of assurance to allow the development of 9.7 acre parcel at 354 Double Springs Road with up to nine attached dwellings units and 35 single family detached houses. Kip?
 Whereas on April 4th, 2006, the City Council approved rezoning Ordinance Number 4852, subject to a bill of assurance.
 And whereas this parcel never developed as conceived by its owner, and whereas the new owner of this 9.7 acre zoned RSF6 parcel wishes to replace the bill of assurance, and whereas this proposed change to the bill of assurance replaces many of the proposed duplexes with single family detached houses and would reduce the maximum allowed density of this development near the city's western border from 53 to 44 units,
 And whereas the Planning Department recommends approval of the proposed replacement bill of assurance. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals the existing bill of assurance and approves the replacement bill of assurance for the 9.7 acre parcel at 354 Double Springs Road, which is attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Who has it? Yep. Thank you. Just to reintroduce myself since it's been a bit since I've sat in front of you all, I'm Jonathan Kurth, the staff senior planner. Moving on to the item, this property is located on Double Springs Road. It's about a half mile south of Weddington between the Legacy Heights subdivision on the east and Silverthorne subdivision on the west. As you'll note in the aerial, the Double Springs storage business is located just to the north of this property.
 As part of a rezoning request in 2006, a bill of assurance was offered when this was proposed for residential multi-family, six units per acre. There were concerns at the time that this would not be appropriate in the area, so that bill of assurance was offered forth and limited to the density that the city attorney outlined, approximately 50 dwellings to be divided amongst 20 to 24 two-family homes and three to six single-family homes.
 Since that time, the property has changed hands and development options have also changed somewhat and the current property owner has come forth requesting an amendment to that bill of assurance to allow 44 dwellings to be divided among nine attached units and 35 single family units. Staff is recommending in favor of this proposal given that it is more compatible with both the density and uses in the area. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Anybody?
 Do we have any public comment on this? Oh, Tom. Mayor, council, I appreciate you guys putting this on the agenda tonight and staff really working with us to expedite getting this on the agenda. We didn't find out about this bill of assurance until we were in the review process going through technical plan review. We've got a resubmittal date for tomorrow, so we're hoping you guys can find it in your hearts to make a favorable decision on this. Okay. Any other public comment?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Alan? I have heard no input from constituents on this, so I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. We have a second. Mark? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 In order to replace the bill of assurance to allow the development of the 9.7 acre parcel at 354 Double Springs Road with up to nine attached dwelling units and 35 single family detached houses. Okay. All in the intended motion to go to Mark. So moved. To go to the third and final reading. Okay. Do we have a second? Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Second.
 Yes. We're good. We're good. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. Okay. An ordinance replace a bill of assurance to allow the development of the 9.7-acre parcel at 354 Double Springs Road with up to nine attached dwelling units and 35 single-family detached houses. Do we have any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number two, resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewage system beyond the city limits to a proposed development near Humont Road and Lowry Lane. Yes, Tim.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The Water and Sewer Committee heard a request at its April 11th meeting from Mr. Justin Cullors, who is a representative for a proposed development located just outside the city limits near Humont Road and Learly Lane. Mr. Cullors presented a request to receive sewer service for this proposed development. It should be noted that section 51.113 of the city code does not allow the extension of sewer service outside the city except by approval of the city council.
 The committee and the staff also discussed the city's policies related to growth and development on the fringes of the city and this was And this that this proposed development would be in conflict with those policies After discussion the committee voted three to one to afford this item to the City Council for consideration with a recommendation for approval Okay What questions do we have mark?
 Councilwoman Marsh was the dissenting voice on this proposal and she is unable to be here this evening, so I would like to request this be tabled until the June 6th meeting so that we can have a more complete discussion on the issues. Okay. So we have a motion to table. Do we have a second? I'll second that if I can figure out how to do this. Okay. Well, we have plenty of time. Oh, sorry. Okay. Speak first.
 We have a motion and a second to table. Is there any public comment on this before we table it? Seeing none, Senator, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. LaChair. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kinnett.
 A resolution to approve an agreement with the University of Arkansas to accept wastewater from the University's Southwest Experimental Fast Oxide Reactor facility to the city's sanitary sewer system for treatment. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. On April 11th, the Water and Sewer Committee was presented with a request to dispose of approximately 70,000 gallons from decommissioning efforts at the Southwest Experimental Fast Oxide Reactor, or C4.
 The University of Arkansas owns a facility located about 20 miles southwest of Fayetteville and has been working on a three-phase approach to decommissioning and dismantling the structures on the site. In 2011, they had accumulated in the basement water in the rooms because of roof leaks during phase one, which was the initial site preparations and development decommissioning plan, approximately 38,000 gallons.
 The university had replaced one of the roofs, but water has again accumulated in the basements. To move forward with phase two, demolition of the operations support building and the reactor support facility, the university needs to remove and properly dispose of the water that has accumulated in the basements. This water contains minute amounts of metals and radioactive material and must thus be disposed of within specific federal and state guidelines.
 There will also be a small amount of water from asbestos abatement as well that will need to be treated for disposal. The State Health Department has received and tested the samples and the contained water in the underground vaults is considered to be unrestricted for proper release and disposal.
 The contained water is at least three decimal places below the limitation. The wastewater will be collected and transported to an agreed location on the University of Arkansas campus and will be discharged into the sanitary sewer system under supervision of the City of Fayetteville. The discharge rate will be no greater than 20,000 gallons per day, which is a dilution factor of 375 times the daily plant flow.
 The Water and Sewer Committee voted four to zero to forward this item to the City Council with no recommendation. Oh, okay. Mark? As mentioned, this was sent through Water and Sewer Committee. There was discussion on the item with no recommendation because of...
 We needed full discussion on the contaminants that may be in the water. So I just wanted to get full disclosure there and I move that we bring this forward. Okay. John? Mr. Mayor, I'd like to ask Tim a couple of questions. Tim, in layman's terms, exactly what type of facility is the University of Arkansas
 It's an old nuclear reactor that they purchased and basically it never did generate electricity. It was an experimental research and so they're dismantling it. It was closed down several years ago. Okay, so this is a nuclear reactor we're talking about? Correct. And this is wastewater from that reactor? It is basically groundwater that's filled the basements. It's not really wastewater from a process. Okay.
 And if the university is allowed to discharge this wastewater in our sanitary sewer system on campus, that will go to our west sewer plant or our east sewer plant? It will go to our east sewer plant.
 The ESER plant, after we've gone through the process, that water that's left over goes into which reservoir? Goes into the White River and into Beaver Lake. And where does our drinking water come from? Same place. Same place. So we're basically dumping nuclear waste water into our drinking supply. And the state says that's okay? Yes, they do. Okay.
 Well, I'm not a chemist. I can't argue with the state. But I feel uneasy about putting anything nuclear in what I'm going to drink. I think some of our citizens feel the same way. Thank you. Al? Thank you.
 I know like all city council members, I've probably received similar amount of correspondence from people in the city of Fayetteville. One of the remarks that made me think of is what about all the testing that has been done with radioactive material throughout the years that at the time they didn't understand the consequences of. Our drinking water source is one of those things that we can't really do without as a city.
 And what happens if we find out something 50 years from now or 100 years from now that we don't know at this point in time? I would hate to be one of the people that voted to support discharging that into our drinking water system, especially into Beaver Lake.
 I don't know that I'll be able to support this, but that's just based on the concerns that I have at this time. I've read all the data and I understand that the state of Arkansas is saying that it's safe, but constituents I've heard from don't feel that in the long range we know enough information. I won't be supporting this tonight. Okay. Mark? If we could, I would like to get more information from CH2M Hill who gave us the initial information.
 I would like them to point out that this is not from a nuclear reactor, but it's from an adjacent building, I think. I need clarification on that. And also the level of contaminant, can you give us a comparative to what that means based on any other standard of water that's released into our system?
 Well, let me first say that this water is considered under the regulations exempt. That's why as Mr. Nyander pointed out, it was considered unrestricted for proper release or disposal. It's actually about a thousand times less than the regulated amount for going to sewers. So we're talking lots of zeros as he pointed out and it's really, really low amounts.
 And I know I don't want to scare people about radiation, but as I pointed out during our Water and Sewer Committee meeting, I had an issue with my thyroid. They injected me with radioactive iodine, and I excreted that for until it was out of my body. So there is radiation that we get through the sewer system in a lot of other ways that are just allowed on a regular basis.
 Most hospitals have a nuclear medicine department. You're going to get radioactive waste from them also that is more of a source than what this is. This is just contaminated groundwater, contaminated rainwater. It is not a source, a radioactive source. It's a very, very small amount of radioactive water.
 And for clarification, this is not from the nuclear reactor, but it's from a building adjacent to the nuclear reactor. That's correct, two buildings, the operations support building and the reactor support building. It's not the actual reactor. Right. So this is groundwater that has come in due to rain, due to seepage, and it is not, it
 There was not storage of radioactive material or there was not active radioactive material in these buildings at the time of the operation. As far as I understand, that's correct. There may be somebody from the University of Arkansas here that knows more than I do about that. But maybe it's someone at the university could answer that because... My name is Mike Johnson. I'm the Associate Vice Chancellor for Facilities at the University of Arkansas. I'm also a resident of Ward 2.
 The state of Arkansas is an agreement state. The Arkansas Department of Health enforces the regulations put forth by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in the state of Arkansas. So it's not just the state of Arkansas
 testing and making a determination. It's a determination that's made across the entire country by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. A number of states are agreement states. They enforce those rules, just like ADEQs and an enforcement agent for EPA regulations within the state of Arkansas, but there are regulations across the entire country. A little background, since there's so much misinformation floating around,
 This reactor was a liquid-cooled, liquid-sodium-cooled breeder reactor, an experimentation reactor, not an electrical-producing reactor. It was built in the mid to late 1960s, operated from 1968 to 1972, completed its experimentation program with a sterling safety record. It was decommissioned, defueled the reactor
 Primary coolants, liquid sodium, was removed. The secondary coolant, liquid sodium, was flushed through the reactor. All of that was disposed of at that time. The fuel rods were removed and properly disposed of. The reactor gave up its radiological operating license in about the 73-74 timeframe. And in 1975 it was offered to the University of Arkansas
 as essentially a gift to support nuclear engineering, which we thought we were going to establish within the College of Engineering, and radiological gauges that had radiological isotopes inside of them to carry out the testing. We did very little of that out there from 1975 to 1986, and then determined that this really wasn't going to work out.
 So we essentially put it in mothballs, and it was essentially already in mothballs because there was nothing else going on there. And we have maintained security and tried to keep the building intact since then, starting in really the late 80s, early 1990s, trying to get the Department of Energy to provide funding to further decommission and dismantle the site.
 In 2009, we received some funds to go out and further characterize and to validate a very high level estimate that was done in the late 1990s that came up with a 16 million dollar cost to restore it to essentially Greenville. That was further validated in 2009 and 2010 and the cost was 26 million, which included a contingency.
 And 14 DOE came back and looked at it and they estimated 26 to 84. We received $9.5 million of Phase I along with some additional funds from DOE last summer. We hired a contractor who did the Phase I work to do Phase II and Phase III because we felt we were getting the follow-on funds. What we're doing right now is shrinking the footprint.
 We're demolishing the remaining two buildings. In 2009 and 10, we demolished some other buildings. We essentially decommissioned the leach field, monitoring well. We demolished a couple of buildings. This time, we are demolishing the reactor support facility.
 and the operation support facilities will take us down to the containment vessel that has the reactor inside. No fuel rods. Has the reactor inside. Inside the reactor there is some contaminated material from its operations those four years. The reactor is about 33 inches in diameter.
 and about four to five feet long. It's not a very big piece, but it's in a huge facility. And our goal is to ultimately remove that, put it in a cask, and transport it for proper disposal. There's some contaminated nickel shields that were around the reactor. The reactor and those shields that are fairly high level
 radioactive contamination. They will also go into a cask built to house them, transport them to the proper disposal site and we will continue to demolish that site and return it to Greenfield. We just signed an elective site cleanup agreement with ADEQ on Monday. After we finish the radiological cleanup, we will finish the site cleanup with ADEQ and our goal is to return it to a Greenfield.
 In 2011, we had some water that had some slight tritium contamination and a little bit of asbestos contamination, well below threshold for disposal in municipal sanitary waste treatment plants or disposal to the ground.
 We worked with the city, we worked with CH2M Hill. Congratulations on their 10 years of safety. They're a professional firm that's international in nature and do this all over the world. They would not steer us wrong, and the university doesn't want to steer us wrong. The levels are very low. There were a double, a split test taken of the water.
 The Department of Health had their own testing. Our contractor, through a separate lab, did their own testing. The results were essentially the same. Very low threshold, well below threshold for disposal. We elected to come back to the city, to go back through the manhole that happens to be at Baum Stadium, trucking it back and forth.
 to remove the water. We have to get the water out of the vaults so that we can finish the characterization and we hope to start demolishing those two support buildings next month. You receive radiation every day naturally occurring.
 When we did the Harmon Road site, some of you may remember that, a number of years ago, we cleaned up a site that had a lot of radioactive isotopes suspended in liquids that had been disposed of in bored holes in a site that was leaking. We spent about $5 million. That site has been cleaned up and released. When we did that site, we ran some Marsame, which are sampling analysis to try to put real
 pictures around something so you understand it. That site, if a resident farmer lived there all their life, farmed it, did not put a drinking water well right into the perched water that was underneath, it had some tritium in it. Their exposure over 25 years was essentially equal to a one-way airline flight to the Bahamas. Every time you fly in an airplane, you're exposed to radiation and your body takes in radiation.
 Tritium is naturally occurring in very small amounts in the ground and around us. It is very transportable in water. But it's that water, other than filtering it for the biologicals, I would drink that water. It's that low of levels and what's out there. We would not do anything that would expose anybody. And when you look at the levels,
 The fuel storage vaults where the water leaked through from the roof, we had some tritium targets and an accelerator that was dismantled in there. The water over the years got into that tritium target. Therefore, very low levels of tritium ran through into the vaults. That's what we're pumping out. Those levels are even lower than 11.
 There is no asbestos in this particular water. In 2011, we ran it through one micron filters to take out the asbestos fibers before we put it into the sewer manhole, per the agreement, under the watchful eyes of CH2M Hill and the city. We're proposing to do the same thing this time. We are not putting anybody at risk. We've been around nuclear for 75 years now, in many ways, shapes, and forms,
 We've got a very professional company, we have very professional state regulators at both ADEQ and ADH representing national EPA and national Nuclear Regulatory Commission. I recommend and we request that you approve this agreement. In 2011 it was up to 100,000 gallons. We disposed of 38,000 gallons.
 The same agreement's being proposed, up to 100,000. We have 70,000. Much less tritium and no asbestos in the water. I'm sorry, a long-winded answer, but we really need to have the right details up on the table as opposed to a lot of other things that are going on. I know there was a lot of confusion on which plant, which river, which drinking water. The Oklahoma regulators were involved. They work under the same threshold levels. It's releasable.
 So, but it is going to the White River through the Nolan plant, which is where we had it last time and to the same manhole at Mom's Stadium that we did last time under the same watchful eyes of CH2M and the city water and sewer department. Yes, Mayor. I wonder what are our alternatives? I haven't read that any place.
 I know that the university will dispose of it in some other way if we do not allow them to do that. And so maybe, Mr. Johnson, can you tell us where you would dispose of it and what it would cost the university? Technically, we could pump it out on the ground and move on. We did not do that in 2011.
 We wanted to be very transparent, so we wanted to do the same thing in 2017. So we chose the municipal wastewater treatment plant, which is set up to handle those types of things through their process. But that's why they set the threshold levels across this country for different levels of chemicals and drugs and radiological materials that come through our wastewater.
 It's about $20,000 for us to haul back and forth and meeting the limits that have been set up on a daily basis from C4 to the manhole. Probably other than pumping it to the ground, using it for dust control, putting it out on a hay field in and around on the C4 property, which is about 620 acres. There's only about three or four acres around the reactor itself.
 hauling it somewhere. Little Rock probably would be the nearest location for a facility, not a sanitary waste treatment facility, but for another treatment facility. Essentially we're hauling water around to dispose of water. Even the water you drink has trace elements of different things and the water that comes and goes into our sewage treatment plant on a daily basis.
 So hauling it somewhere else further away, running it through a different facility would be another, would be the kind of the final option. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mike, thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate that. One question I do have is, you know, we've heard a lot about different forms of radiation that people are exposed to. Solar radiation you mentioned from traveling in planes. We've heard about that and also medical treatments.
 that expose people to radiation. There have been many, many documented cases around the world of people being disfigured or born with birth defects from exposure to radiation, but we haven't heard any examples of specifically tritium being put into wastewater systems for cities in these levels, so that's where one of my questions comes from about the result that could happen 100 years from now. Do you have any specific examples of tritium
 For many of the cases you talked about, absolutely. People have been hurt, disfigured, and those types of things. Massive amounts of radiation, not the .0001 that we're talking about with this current tritium. I have not looked up to see what somebody that had massive amounts of tritium exposure
 But tritium occurs naturally in our daily lives as well. And I haven't seen anything out of what that does. Radon, gas, can be in our houses. Prolonged exposure and massive doses are what happens. Asbestos, prolonged exposure over many years and inhaling it is terrible. Thank you. It kills people. That was really...
 And to my question, it was just, I was looking for specific examples of tritium. I just didn't hear that. Well, I could find you a specific example of tritium, but I think you would find out that it's millions of times more than what we're talking about over probably a prolonged period, or it was in such a dose that it was a lethal dose, which is an even higher quantity. Okay. Thank you. John? Mr. Johnson, you mentioned in your presentation
 that an option would be pumping it out onto the ground. If you chose to do that, which watershed would it go into? Do you know? I think it's where we are in Strickler. Ultimately, it's probably Lee Creek, which is Fort Smith, but I'd have to go back and look at the charts. The quantities we're talking about and how you would normally release would be irrigation, and irrigation doesn't run off. It goes into the ground.
 The President Okay. So, but you're saying the water is safe. So, if it goes into a leak where it can go to Fort Smith Water Supply, no big deal, right? Mr. It goes to White River. It goes to Beaver. Wherever it goes, it's a big deal until we've tested and we've met thresholds and we're convinced it's safe. It's always a big deal until we can prove it's safe based on known scientific evidence. The President You're misinterpreting my term big deal. What I'm referring to is you're saying it's safe.
 So it's not going to cause a lot of trouble is what I mean, because we have such low levels. I'm saying it's safe and it will not expose human beings to adverse consequences. I'm very gratified to hear that. But just the same, I'd rather put it in somebody else's water supply than my water supply and our city's water supply. Now, you say it's safe wherever it goes, but just the same, why take the risk? Let's put it somewhere else so that it filters through the ground system
 and be safe when it goes through their infiltration system. I would say, I would never say, let's not do it here, let's do it somewhere else. That's head in the sand. We aren't going to do anything anywhere that's unsafe. Sorry. Very glad to hear that. Just there are some people in our city that are not convinced it's unsafe. According to your test and ADEQ's test, the technology they have available to them today, yes, it's safe.
 But maybe 50 or 100 years, as Alderman Long points out, maybe we don't know yet. Maybe we can't know yet. THE PRESIDENT. I don't even want to get into speculation like that, sir. Who knows what's going to happen tomorrow, let alone 100 years from now? MR. I agree. So why take the risk? THE PRESIDENT. We're not taking a risk. Science is. We know it today. MR. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir. Q. Any other questions from the Council? All right. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Q. What comments do we have from the public on this? Everybody's got a queue up here.
 My name is Tom Brown. I live at 2031 West Main Street on the south slope of Markham Hill. I'm a Navy veteran, submarine torpedo man, worked with nuclear weapons when I had to. I am deeply opposed to the idea of discharging anything radioactive into our drinking water supply.
 The Japanese investors bought Westinghouse so that they could have a lot of control over their nuclear industry. Fukushima has demonstrated the fallacy of depending on the experts. Westinghouse is now bankrupt and the Japanese investors are looking at huge losses that will go out for hundreds of years. This was a mistake when it was first made here. It was a mistake when the university took control of it.
 There's never been anything good that came out of it. As I understand it, there's a basement up on campus that had to be poured full of concrete because it's also one of these nuclear research areas that got contaminated, and the only way to contain it was to tear down the building or fill the basement with concrete. So they filled the basement with concrete. The record of safety of the nuclear industry is worse than abysmal. Those who are spokesmen for the nuclear industry,
 have no scientific credibility that they can depend on. All they have are government regulations that people in your position allowed them to set up. And every time we've looked at it, we found that they were wrong, and we were wrong to let them do it. Appreciate your time. Thank you, Tom. Good evening, Mayor and Vice Mayor and Council Members, Aldermen. I'm Ed Brocksmith from Tahlequah, down the river from you.
 I'm concerned about water quality of the Illinois River watershed and the White River watershed. We have in Tahlequah and in Northeast Oklahoma and Green Country, we've been watching Fayetteville for 33 years or longer. We started watching in 1984 when you proposed a split flow sewage disposal plan.
 plan for the Illinois River watershed and the White River watershed. We went all the way to the US Supreme Court on that and since then we've watched closely. We've been impressed by Fayetteville and what you're doing. Your sustainability efforts, your trails, your attention to the quality of life of your citizens and all these other things. Your dedication to removing phosphorus from your wastewater stream. So it was with
 A great amount of surprise that we saw that this proposal was being made tonight. At first we didn't know what watershed it would go to and there was quite a bit of alarm. And now we know. This is an irresponsible proposal and the university has put you in an awkward position. They'll probably be back at some point in the future.
 wanting to do something similar. And that's not what sustainability means, coming back and back and back. There's going to be more requests from the university about this. By the way, a university that received, I believe, $10.5 million to decommission this facility. Putting this in your wastewater treatment plant accomplishes nothing. You might as well just take these trucks and back up to the White River and just open up a valve and let the water run in.
 Your plant was not designed to remove radioactive materials from the waste stream. It was designed to remove phosphorus and nitrates, to work on the issue of dissolved oxygen, to remove solids. Not radioactivity. I'm an old broadcaster. When we had trouble with a machine, we'd call our engineers. And they'd come in and they'd look and they'd put all their equipment on and they'd say, it looks good on the scope. Two hours later it wouldn't work.
 and we couldn't run a tape from our studio. But it looked good on a scope. Mr. Latour, this looks good on a scope. And I would remind everyone here that the ill-advised hog farm on the Buffalo National River looked good on the scope to someone. But there's a great deal of alarm and animosity now and mistrust by the public because of the permit that was granted by ADEQ.
 Thank you for letting me appear tonight. I'd just like to say that this shouldn't happen to any river. Shouldn't happen to the Illinois. It shouldn't happen to the White River. It shouldn't happen to Joe Creek, wherever that is. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Gary Kahanek. I live on South Washington in Fayetteville. Mike Johnson, I want to thank you for the
 really excellent overview you gave on this whole issue. I think you did a great job. I want to remind everyone that very recently we had a March for Science in Fayetteville. We had 300 people attend and some of the U of A professors spoke to us and we had a lot of young people there in the sciences excited about this. Now this issue is an opportunity for us to remember
 that science is one thing that makes this nation great, and we have a lot of really brilliant people that are not afraid to look at the details. Nuclear science, nuclear chemistry is not that difficult. What we have here is something that's just a little bit above water, and I think that we need to really, you know, calm our fears down and look at the data.
 Mr. Latour, you had a question about what is tritium. I think Mr. Long had a question about tritium. Just some basics. Tritium is hydrogen, H2, with an extra neutron. So it's H3. It's a little heavier, little heavier nucleus, makes it a little bit unstable. When it undergoes a radioactive decay, it emits a beta particle, which is an electron.
 When there's damage from radiation to tissue, it has to do with what type of particle or wave is emitted and the energy. Now for tritium, you've got the smallest nucleus, very small mass, and that means that any ejected particle is going to have a lot less energy. And it also depends on the mass. So an electron is extremely low mass, extremely low energy,
 If you take an atom of tritium, the beta particle, when it decays, is stopped by 0.6 centimeters of air. The beta particle has so little energy it cannot penetrate the skin. It's very low energy. So this should alleviate fears. Now, in addition, I think Mike was saying there's radiation all around us. The Earth is radioactive. There's uranium in the rocks. There's thorium in the rocks.
 These are much more radioactive materials than tritium, yet their quantities are so low that there still is no significant biological effect. The science community, the medical community knows very well the impacts of ionizing radiation on tissue. When a person goes in for radiotherapy for cancer, we've been doing this for decades.
 and the doctors know exactly how much targeted radiation to do on the tumor. They know how much impact will be on the surrounding tissue, and they gauge those amounts very closely so that it kills the tumor without damaging the surrounding tissue. A person will go through these treatments, and there's the cancer rate, if it can even be detected, is almost undetectable 10, 20, 30 years into the future.
 Those radiotherapy treatments are many, many orders of magnitude greater than anything we're talking about for tritium in this water sample. So the words nuclear and radiation make many of us just run. But we have to take a breath, look at the data, look at the numbers, trust the science, trust our experts. It's not difficult.
 We can go to Wikipedia, spend 10 minutes, and learn everything I just told you here tonight. So, I would encourage the council to just stand firm, trust the science, trust Mr. Johnson. There's no impact on this. I feel perfectly comfortable. So, please go ahead and approve this discharge to our sewer. Thank you. Thank you, Gary. Hi, my name is Jessie Green, and I am the new White River Waterkeeper, appointed by Waterkeeper Alliance.
 So I definitely do have a few questions and concerns about this whenever I was reviewing through the data. In 2011 there were four samples that I could find that were taken, analyzed by the Health Department, and so those range anywhere from six, a little over 6,000 to you know close to 180,000 picocuries per liter. And so in 2017 there were only two samples and while I don't know what the
 What the limit is for discharging into a waste treatment plant to a sewer line, but those are still definitely well above the maximum containment level for the Safe Drinking Water Act. Now I understand that there's the concept of dilution as the solution to pollution, and so that's the purpose for probably rerouting it through the wastebar treatment plant, is that it will be diluted.
 Another thing that hasn't been talked about is while these still may be fine for safe drinking water levels, we haven't talked about whether or not these are still safe for
 aquatic biota and the potential for biomagnification. And really, I mean, from what I've been able to find, the data out there is extremely pretty sparse. So I can't tell you for sure, other than there have been several studies at very low levels and they have seen noted effects of whatever kind and so, may I say of whatever kind, because those were done in the 70s by EPA and so it's still very,
 limited information on that. But I don't, and I definitely don't understand what the benefit is of discharging it to the White River if an option is to land apply it to the ground. Other than, you know, if the only thing that I can see is that, you know, this might have an impact on the site being able to be turned into a greenfield status. And so,
 With it being, the cost of that being upwards of $84 million, was that, I think that was right, what was stated to potentially return it to greenfield status. Like, it doesn't seem like that's really going to happen anyway. And so I don't know why we would transport this to the Wright River in order to try and just share the radioactive waste that is in there. And, yeah.
 So those those are definitely my questions and I hope that you would ask them too as far as like whether or not we have characterized the waste well enough based on two samples like in science That's that's not acceptable. I mean it varies so much And so I would ask you to look into that more before you guys make a decision. Thank you Any other public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council well I
 Who'd like to be first? Nobody wants to be first. Yes, John. Well, Mr. Mayor, I'll share a story. There was a nuclear power plant up in, I think in New York, called Three Mile Island. Some of you might recall the news reports. There was a problem there and it was widely reported in the press that this is the worst nuclear disaster in United States history.
 which was a true statement, but many times the press does not put things into perspective for us. Actually, if your house would have been right outside the perimeter fence of Three Mile Island, you'd receive the same amount of radiation as you receive, like Mr. Johnson explained, by taking a jet airplane ride from New York, LaGuardia, to LAX across the country. So even though it may have been the worst nuclear disaster, it was still a very nominal thing, except nominal things don't make big headlines, so the news media,
 touts it as the largest nuclear disaster in United States history, which it was, but it was very small when you put it in perspective. And that might be what we're talking about here. Maybe the amounts are so small that it really is meaningless. But I still come back to my basic proposition. We've had apparently chemists talk to us tonight, explain to us the nuclei of whatever we were discussing at that point and whether it was emitting an electron or a beta.
 That's way over my pay grade, okay? But just the fact that we're having this discussion makes me ask the question all the more, why put it in our drinking water? Surely there are alternatives, Mr. Johnson. Transport to Little Rock, you told us you disposed 38,000 gallons earlier. How was that done? Maybe we can do it the same way instead of putting it into our drinking water. So those are the things that...
 wrestle around in my mind. And if we can transport the Little Rock and the cost is not exponential, maybe that's a better alternative. Just because there's a question, just because we're having this discussion, there's a question about it in a lot of minds, maybe people who haven't expressed this sitting out in the audience, there's still a question, do we really need to put it in our water supply? Maybe there's a better place we can dispose of it more appropriately. Okay, Justin.
 Well, I haven't had a science class since 1994, but I feel like I had one tonight. I thought about crawling under my desk during recreating the drill back in the day when the nuclear weapon thing went off, but I do think we're overreacting just a bit. I've looked at studies that have shown, one in 1998 that shown if you drank alcohol,
 multiple times tritium in two liters of water a day for 75 years straight you had a one in a million chance of developing cancer about like getting struck by lightning I don't want to get cancer and I don't want to get struck by lightning but I don't really see this as something that is flowing through an active reactor and and and
 glowing as it flows into the White River. So I just think I totally get it.
 I'd like to question, I do question everything when it comes to my children and certainly if I thought this was going to harm them I would not do it but I'm convinced that, and by the way that study was in 1998 and the one in 2008 came up with the same actually lower figure for cancer so to think that maybe 30, 40, 50, 100 years something might be different in the last 20 years it hasn't been different at all it's actually gotten better.
 So, I just don't think that I appreciate the concern, but I do believe that it's not going to be that harmful, so I wouldn't be opposed to doing this. Okay. Mark? When I looked at this, and I do have a background in science, I've worked in a lab and I've worked in the industry, and I was real pleased to get the data that we received to support this.
 And to me, it's more responsible to release this in a system so we can monitor it and so that we know where the water's going, what the radioactive levels are, and have a scientific understanding of the basis of the release. The public outcry and alarm is based on semantics, because any time you hear radioactive, you
 There is a semantic reaction of alarm, but I'm taking away the semantics and I'm looking at the science in a real scientific evidence-based methodology. This is not short-term science. This is long-term science. This is science that is well known from a level looking down at the atomic level, not looking at the universe.
 semantic outcry and alarm. It is with great concern and great care that I looked at the data that was presented to the Water Sewer Committee. I looked at it from the point of view of science, well-documented science, science that is not the hog farm, science that is not based on any type of...
 evidence other than what is tritium, what does tritium do, what is the level of radioactive element that we're talking about, and based on the real science behind what we're talking about here, I do not see that we're putting any undue risk on the watershed. There's no
 here on City Council or probably in the city of Fayetteville that is more protective of our watersheds than I am. I imagine in the long run there will be people that says that I'm supporting some type of radioactive monstrosity by releasing this into the White River Basin.
 However, based on science, this is not a condition to be alarmed, and that's why I would support this if the council so decides. I think that we need to step back and take a look at it based on reality and step away from the semantics of two words, radioactive. It's not radioactive.
 active in a point that should be alarming. And that's my point of view from a scientific background. So as I vote on this and as I support it, I also have equal care and equal concern for protecting the watershed that we're releasing it into
 And because of my care and concern for protecting this watershed and our drinking water and any watershed, I know that by going through our sanitary waste system we will have the capacity to monitor the release of this water, to know the real levels of radioactivity, to know what is
 the elemental makeup of the water that is being released and by having that knowledge, I see that there's power in the knowledge. So that's why I would support this. I'm supporting this because this allows me to know what we're releasing in order to protect the very thing that people are being alarmed about and that is safe drinking water. So that is why I would support this.
 Alan. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate all the information we've received tonight on this and I've listened very closely. But I have to go back to the fact that people do swim in the White River and people do swim in Beaver Lake and I want to be 100% sure that the decision we make here tonight won't have a negative impact in the future. And I can't say that for sure at this point. The person who is representing the White River protection.
 You mentioned that we were unsure of the exact levels in all of the water because there's only been two samples taken recently. That causes concern. Another point brought up was that the ecosystems could be impacted. Well, that's important to us too. We as a city have been concerned about trace elements of minerals that our wastewater facility discharges into the Illinois River.
 I think trace elements of even radioactive material would be something we should be concerned about. I haven't heard a good reason for this not being taken to another controlled environment. My question of why Fayetteville still hasn't been answered. I don't see a good reason not to transport this to a controlled environment outside Fayetteville and not discharge this into our drinking water systems.
 That's where I'm going to stand with this on my vote. My questions haven't been answered. My concerns still exist. And I'll be supporting my constituents who have been concerned about this as well and not voting to discharge this into Fayetteville's wastewater system. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Any final thoughts? This has been an interesting discussion. I think in 2011, didn't we treat the water coming from Tim? Yes, sir.
 Would you care to step to the microphone? In 2011, we treated water that came from the very same C4. Yes, sir. We treated 36,000 gallon. And it was at higher levels than this one was? Yes. But it was still under the- Under the limitations, yes. Safe levels? Yes, sir. And this time it's safer than that was? That's correct. Okay.
 i wanted that on the record that this is not the first time that we have taken c4 water before we did about 2011 if i remember it was deemed that it was safe at that point in time right yes sir okay so how exactly is this distributed denise do you have i mean how does that well basically it'll be discharged into the parking lot the same manhole that they did in 2011 it will
 get to the head works of the treatment plant, then we'll go through all the processes, the settling processes, the biological processes, and the ozone disinfection. That's now at the normal plant and then it'll be discharged. So it's going to go through treatment? Yes, sir. Okay. And the scientific data does line up with what the university has said, correct? Correct. Okay. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I need a motion to contemporary the resolution, please. All right.
 Mark? As the chairman of the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee, I'm bringing this forward for a... Okay. Sarah? I will second that. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any other final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. LeTourne? No. No. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Okay.
 Mayor, that's four votes. It requires five votes to pass, so you may vote if you're pleased to. I'll vote yes. So the resolution passed. All right. Number four, in order to amend 51.146 backflow prevention of the federal code to more closely conform to the latest American Water Works Association and Arkansas State Plumbing Code, KIPP.
 Therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Favola, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Favola, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 51.146B6, Air Gap,
 by repealing it and enacting a new subsection 6 air gap as shown below. Subsection 6 air gap. Air gap means a physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel. The air gap must be at least two and a half times the diameter of the supply pipe
 In no case shall it be less than one inch. Section 2. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends Section 51.146C handbook by repealing the end of the sentence, quote, from time to time here and after be amended, unquote, and enacting a new end of the sentence, quote, and may be revised as needed, unquote. Section 3.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 51.146 and enacts the following replacement subsection 1 and 2. Quote, subsection 1, the requirements and standards set forth herein shall apply to residential establishments having in-ground irrigation systems, fire suppression systems and or pools and to industrial and commercial developments and buildings.
 These establishments, developments, and buildings shall follow the requirements of the Arkansas State Plumbing Code and the City of Fayetteville's Cross-Connection Control Program Handbook of Policies and Procedures. Subsection 2, Single-Family Residential Dwelling Units.
 unless involved in commercial operations, are exempt from the requirements of this section except for residential dwelling units having in-ground irrigation systems, fire suppression systems,
 pools, or otherwise have a plumbing system that presents an unreasonable danger of contaminating the public water supply under the purview of the Arkansas State Plumbing Code or the City of Fayetteville Cross-Connection Control Program Handbook of Policies and Procedures, Section 4.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals all use of water and sewer division and enacts replacement utilities department throughout section 51.146. Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend section 51.146 by repealing subsection , re-lettering all following sections
 and repealing the current Subsection E and enacting the following re-lettered Subsection D as follows. Subsection D, in the case of any premises where because of security requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions,
 It is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-connection survey. The public water system shall be protected by the installation of a University of Southern California approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or an air gap at the service connection. These premises will be considered high hazard. Subsection 6.
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Ortiz are hereby repeal section 51.146 subsection K, testing and maintenance and enacting a replacement subsection K as follows. Testing and maintenance. The customer or the contractor responsible for the installation of the backflow prevention assembly will notify the Water and Sewer Division Utilities Department immediately after installation of the assembly so it can be tested and inspected.
 The Water and Sewer Division will inspect and test. The customer or contractor shall have the Backflow Prevention Assembly tested by state-certified testing technician within 10 days of the installation date and shall provide the Utilities Department with the proper test forms and annually thereafter. The customer shall be responsible for all testing annually thereafter.
 In instances where the Water and Sewer Division Utilities Department, the City of Fayetteville, and or the Plumbing Inspector deems the hazard to be great enough, testing may be required at more frequent intervals. All costs of testing shall be paid by the customer. Any repairs required as a result of inspections or testing shall be arranged for and paid by the customer through private contract with a state-certified assembly repair technician.
 Records of inspections, testings, and or repairs to backflow preventers shall be kept by the Water and Sewer Department Utilities Department and or the City and made available to the State Health Department upon request. All existing customer premises shall be in compliance with this section in accordance with the notification by the Water Utility Department.
 Section 7, that the City of Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals the last sentence in Section 51.146L, New Construction.
 Okay. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On April 11th, the staff presented to the Water and Sewer Committee with a draft backflow ordinance to replace the existing ordinance. There were changes to the ordinance concerning definition and names, but the biggest change in the ordinance is requiring the property owner to test their backflow preventer on at least an annual basis. The Arkansas Department of Health have two programs that deal with water. It's engineering and plumbing.
 The new engineering program's primary function is the regulation and oversight of public water systems throughout the state, while the plumbing section provides consultation to local public health officials, architects, engineers, and other construction related facilities professionals. The engineering section only requires backflow testing on commercial, industrial, and non-profit facilities. This is the section of the ADH rule that the city has been enforcing.
 The plumbing section requires backflow testing on all backflow facilities, including residential backflow preventers. These include in-ground irrigation system, residential fire sprinkler systems, and automatic filling swimming pools. The city wants to bring itself in line with the state plumbing code and require all backflow preventers be inspected and to make this the responsibility of the property owner. This will afford greater protection of our public water system.
 The Water and Sewer Committee voted three to one to forward this item to the City Council for consideration with a recommendation for approval. Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Mark. Sure. It's an ordinance, so I figured it'll, yeah, I figured it just kind of runs course. I will state that this was, as you tell us, the other one was looked at. This one is...
 This portion is looking at real contamination of already treated water. This would look at chemical and biological contamination into our water lines. And so this is a real threat. If we were to contaminate the water lines that are delivering into the homes, that's why it's important that we look at this. And this does bring us in line with the state plumbing code.
 That's why it needs to be considered. Okay, John Thank You mr. Mayor Tim how many instances of contamination do you know of personally that have resulted from the lack of Backflow preventers well, I can't tell you any from the lack of a backflow preventer But I can give you three instances where a backflow preventer did cause to remain safe if I may
 On March 31st in 2008, Fayetteville City Hall experienced a contamination when a recirculating pump malfunctioned, causing brown water throughout the hot water system. It was contained only in City Hall because the backflow preventer didn't get into the public system. On April 28th, 2008, a City employee discovered a propane tank connected to a water hose, which was connected to the potable water supply at a residence. Discovered that the hose bib had a vacuum breaker, which is a backflow preventer, and the water supply was protected.
 On August 29, 2015, a local industry discovered an amber colored soapy water. After investigating, it was discovered that cooling tower chemicals were getting to the factory's drinking water due to a drop in water pressure. The public water supply was protected by parallel backflow preventers.
 So it is important that the backflow preventers are in place, but as this ordinance says, it's important that they get tested because a backflow preventer is a mechanical object. It's a spring-loaded check valve that needs to be checked at least on an annual basis. The examples you gave us were the city and industry. You didn't give us any homeowner examples. We haven't had any. We're going to require homeowners under this ordinance to buy backflow preventers and test them annually.
 Well, the problem is that when you do get a problem in a residence and in the system, then it's probably already too late. It probably is, but since 1828 when we founded our city, we don't have any examples of consumers causing problems. It could, but that's the argument we got into a while ago. We could presume anything. Thank you. Mark, you're on the In looking at national data, there is certainlyyou can do a search online
 examples of death and illness due to backflow failures into the public water system. And this is simply a measure to prevent that type of danger. It's a real measure, especially in your water sprinkler system or pool system where you may be using chemicals or where there may be a biological contaminant.
 And so this is simply a safety measure. And again, I want to emphasize that this is bringing the city of Fayetteville up to the state plumbing code. I don't think that we have to wait for a death or an illness to be reported to understand that there is a real issue looming if there is contaminant put directly into a public.
 water line that's going from house to house and spigot to spigot. Thanks. Okay. Any other questions from the council? All right. What public comment do we have on this? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark. I move that we accept this. We've got to go to the second reading. Go to the second reading. Well, we're at the first reading. I move that we go to the second reading.
 We have a motion to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Mayor, a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading requires six votes and there's only five votes, so do you care to vote? I'm going to vote yes. The motion passes.
 Ordinance of amendments section 51.146, backflow prevention of the FAVO code to more closely conform to the latest American Water Works Association and Arkansas State Plumbing Code. Mark. I move that we go forward with the third and final reading. Do we have a second? Adele. Yes, I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? French. Yes. LeTourne. No. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Again, Mr. Mayor, it requires six affirmative votes to pass. I'm going to vote yes. All right. It passes. An ordinance demands section 51.146, backflow prevention of the Fayetteville code more closely conformed to the latest American Water Works Association and Arkansas State Plumbing Code. Who have we got here? Mark. I move that we move forward. Well, we're good with that. I should ask for final comments.
 Alan, you have final comments? I have a final question. Sure. I just noticed something in this that I wanted to ask you a question about. It says that the records of the backflow preventer shall be kept by the water and sewer department utilities department. Does that mean that every time the backflow preventer is actually inspected by the homeowner's plumber or whoever that may be that's board certified?
 The City of Fayetteville has to receive a copy of that report? That is correct. We do receive a copy of the report. Every year, how will we determine where we need to review this? How do we know who needs to submit those reports to us? The process is going to be is that the certified backflow tester who already give reports to us on the backflow vendors that are being tested.
 We're going to do a program where it's simplified where they can electronically send us the test results. That doesn't really answer. I'm sorry. Maybe I should be more clear. So what about the people who are not currently having their backflow preventers tested?
 How do we know that they need one? I mean, that sounds like a really big gap. The first thing we've got to do here is to get letters out to the customers and let them know, ask them if they've got a back bubble preventer of what they've got, what their systems are. That's the place that we've got to start because it has never happened before. So what if they don't respond?
 Well, then we'll try again. We'll do surveys. I mean, so, okay, so we have, I'm just assuming in the city of Fayetteville, probably quite a few people with backflow vendors that we don't know about. I'm just guessing. We know that we have 6,300. But what about others? I mean, do we think there's a gap between what's in existence in Fayetteville and what we know? I might add that.
 If they have followed the correct permitting process of the city when putting in a pool or having their irrigation system approved as a part of their single family home development, then we do have a record of those that backflow preventers have been installed if they followed the city process. Right, but maybe before that city process was installed and codified, there could be homes that have these things and have backflow.
 back have or don't have backflow preventers that we don't know about. What's the enforcement mechanism is what I'm really getting at to make sure that we identify all of those or are we just hoping that they respond and say yes to the survey? Are you asking the enforcement if they don't get them inspected? No, the enforcement of making sure that they report that they actually have one of the scenarios that would require them to have a backflow preventer. I think what Alderman Long is asking, if they haven't
 admitted that they have a backflow preventer, how do you track them? Right, how do we enforce this? How do you know where they are? Mayor, we read meters of every single water and sewer account of the city on a monthly basis through non-billing cycles. So we have the opportunity through our meter readers to evaluate households to do an inventory of those that might have backflow preventers. Even if they're not at the side of the meter?
 Well, sir, a backflow preventer has to be above grade, so it will be noticeable. It's either going to be close to the meter or it's going to have its own meter. Okay. Mark, did you have something else? Okay. Let's see. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Chair? No. Yes. Right. Yes. Yes. Tenant? Yes. The ordinance passed.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5728 for approximately 1.25 acres located at 1640 South Hanchu Road from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to C2 thoroughfare commercial kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre to C2, thoroughfare commercial. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Mayor. For those of you not familiar with the location of Hanchu Road, it is on the south side of Martin Luther King Boulevard, about a third of a mile east of the new intersection with Ruppel Road. The applicant there owns several properties. If you'll note in the aerial, his business is located at 1614 and he owns the properties south through to 1640. The properties in question are these two betwixt those.
 The applicant has, or the city has received a complaint a few months ago about the applicant operating their business on their property. Among those complaints, one of them was that the auto repair business has overflowed and begun to encroach on one of those middle properties, which is zoned residential single family four units per acre, which auto repair is not allowed use there.
 In the midst of attempting to resolve this complaint, we've been working with the applicant and one of the solutions proffered to him was to extend the C2 zoning district on his auto repair business's property southward onto the other properties that he owns.
 March 27th Planning Commission meeting, there was a considerable amount of public comment in opposition to it. There are several neighbors further up on the Hanchi Road that were concerned that increased intensity on this road would create significant travel difficulties. Hanchi Road is a very narrow road. It's about 14 to 16 feet in width. It's been that way. It's not a significantly improved road.
 Some of the public comment was also concerned that, or was under the understanding that this rezoning would eliminate all the other zoning violations and bring the property fully into compliance. And it was made clear that this is only to address the issue of the auto repair business being used on the residential single family property. To get clarification on that and more detail on the other zoning violations, the Planning Commission elected to table the item. It came back in early April on the 10th.
 staff provided more detail to the commissioners. There was significant public comment again, and this time more in favor of the applicant's request and speaking to his character. The planning commission felt comfortable for this and recommended forwarding it with a vote of nine to zero. Staff also supported it, finding that it was compatible with the Highway 62 auto salvage to the east, the commercial zone properties to the north, and the property of the west, although zoned residential agriculture is
 future land use map, city neighborhood area, which is slated to be developed to a much greater density and intensity. Thank you. Okay. Allen. I just have one quick question. On the application for rezoning, it says that the parties that have a financial interest in this rezoning request are, one, the applicant, and two, the City of Fayetteville. How does the City of Fayetteville, other than, I guess, future tax revenue, have a financial
 I did not note that when we were processing the application. I don't know other than the property owner himself having any financial interest in that. That may be an error. Okay. Yes. I may have just missed it on the picture, but the land immediately to the north to MLK is zoned what? What is the 3675 zone? So that's all the same. It's also zoned C2. Okay. So this would just add that zoning down south. Yes.
 To those two lots. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you any other questions on that? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Should go first. I'm sorry kid is the applicant here, please come up. Oh
 My name is Billy Lindsey. I own and operate unique creations by Billy at 1620 South Hancher Road in Fayetteville. I wish to get the two adjacent parcels to my business, which I've owned since 2011, rezoned to C2 commercial thoroughfare so it is better utilized to benefit our community. I think the use of the parcels for a parking lot will be
 will make it safer for all who drive on Hanshue Road as it will enable service vehicles to enter the property, pull onto the lot, deliver vehicles and supplies instead of backing in off of the street, which we already know is dangerous and unimproved.
 I believe that the best use for the first parcel for 1640 is the current use, which is the parking lot for unique creations by Billy. I am currently discussing with planning the necessary improvements for the parking lot for future development if it becomes necessary. Do we have any questions for the applicant?
 I have a, could I ask you the same question I saw in the application? It was for future tax revenue was basically that. I just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you. We'll take some public comment now. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless council member brings you back up to ask questions. Hi, Justin Hoover. I live just down the road from Billy on 1859 Hood Island Lane and I would like to see it made where you can use the property. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Justin? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. We have a second. Della? Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Kingman? Yes. Kennett? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5728 for approximately one and a quarter acres located at 1640 South Henshue Road from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Okay. What's the wishes of the council? Adela. I move we suspend the road to go to the third and final reading. I have a second. John. I second that, Mayor. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Cloteer? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Kennett? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5728, for approximately one and a quarter acres, located at 1640 South Henshue Road, from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Is there any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? No.
 Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now number six. An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 17-5733 for approximately 1.79 acres located southeast corner of Crossover Road. Okay.
 and Hearthstone Drive from RO residential office and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and a legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RO Residential Office and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above.
 Okay. John. Thank you, Mayor. The property in question is on the southeast corner of the intersection of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive. If you're not familiar with the area, this is directly across from the city's botanical gardens and just to the west of the Stonewood subdivision.
 The original request came through the Planning Commission on March 27th as a request to rezone the property from RO residential office and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to CES Commercial Services. As you can see on the aerial, it is a split zone piece of property.
 There was a significant amount of public comments at that meeting. A lot of that revolved around the understanding that many of the property owners, particularly the Stonewood subdivision, had purchased their land with the understanding that this would be developed under their RO zoning district and all the uses that are allowed under it. Although there was a small number of people that staff did hear from that were in favor of it, thinking that services need to be at this area, it was overwhelmingly against, particularly from the Stonewood subdivision.
 I believe documentation has been forwarded to you noting that the residents were unanimous or almost unanimously against it. The item was tabled at that meeting by the Planning Commission. The commissioners were not comfortable with the proposal as it was, citing particularly the allowed uses under CS for gas stations and drive-throughs. On April 10th, the item came back before the Planning Commission.
 Following feedback, the applicant revised the request of the Neighborhood Services General
 The public comment again was fairly significant with a large number again also opposed to it for many of the same reasons. The understanding that this would be developed as residential office property, that there were concerns that there'd be issues with the restaurant being located there, whether it was traffic, crime, odor, noise, the possibility that a parking lot would be located against the subdivision as opposed to against crossover with the NSG zoning district, which requires buildings to be closer to street right of way.
 I do know this is a relatively new zoning district, so I'll just run through some of the basic comparisons between NSG and RO. As far as density, RO allows 24 units per acre, while neighborhood services general allows 18.
 Residential office allows 60 feet maximum building height and NSG allows 45. As I noted, the RO zoning district has conventional setbacks which tend to push buildings away from the street and locate the parking lot between it and the street, whereas NSG has the build two zones which pull the buildings towards the street.
 As far as the uses, the most significant differences are that under NSG you can develop single two, three and four family residential dwellings on significantly smaller lots that can be found in the neighboring residential single family four units per acre subdivision of
 You can do single and two family homes under the residential office zoning district, but the lot requirements are significantly larger. Also one of the main differences is under the RO zoning district, an office building of unlimited size can be built, but any other uses, whether it's a retail or restaurant, is generally limited to 2,000 square feet, whereas under the NSG zoning district, the limitation is 8,000 square feet.
 That said, staff was in support of the request for NSG finding that this area has a distinct lack of services, considering all the single family homes to the east and the city amenities, the park and the botanical garden to the west. And also considering the future land use maps designation and the location at a signalized intersection. The Planning Commission agreed and forwarded the item with a recommendation of approval with a vote of 8 to 1.
 We have to take any questions. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for John? Justin. Yeah, I do have a couple of questions, and then let me just make a statement first. So I think there are several reasons to hold this here tonight and not vote on it. One of the many is that we don't have a full council, and I respect it when we have more opinions up here than not. I've also talked to multiple councilors
 people in that area both for and against and I think we definitely owe it to the Decision and the rezoning itself to take our time on this I think pushing it through would be a mistake whether we voted it up or down And so I will ask certainly It's up to the council. I respect their their actions, but I would ask that we do hold it here and
 THIS EVENING AND NOT VOTE ON IT ONE WAY OR THE OTHER. MY QUESTION TO CITY STAFF, YOU ANSWERED A LOT OF THEM SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH, JONATHAN, FOR THAT. SO IT IS CORRECT THAT UNDER THE ZONING AS IT IS NOW THAT SOMEONE COULD BUILD AN OFFICE BUILDING OR AN OFFICE COMPLEX, FOR EXAMPLE, AT WHAT HEIGHT? UP TO 60 FEET. THERE IS A REQUIREMENT, HOWEVER, WHEN YOU'RE ADJACENT TO SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICTS THAT YOU BE LIMITED TO 20-FOOT CAP AND YOU CAN INCREASE THAT.
 one foot for every foot further away you move from that single family district. And there's not a similar requirement for the NSG zoning district. So in the zoning that it is right now, if you look at the overview, I'm mostly concerned, I'll just be real honest, with the houses behind the brick wall that are right behind this land.
 Blocks away from this. I think traffic will be minimal I think most people are gonna be coming out of this spot and not Driving through a basically closed-in neighborhood for no real reason, but I am concerned about these houses more than anything right here So if I was going to build an office complex there when you say that that setback rule as you say from the neighborhood or from that brick and
 I WOULD NEED TO GO CLOSER TO THE ROAD YOU'RE SAYING TO GO UP ANY MORE THAN THAT? CORRECT. ONE FOOT AWAY FOR EACH ONE FOOT IN ADDITIONAL HEIGHT UP TO 60 FEET MAXIMUM HEIGHT. BUT THIS ZONING THAT IT CURRENTLY SITS DOESN'T NECESSARILY REQUIRE CLOSER TO THE ROAD OR BEHIND THE ROAD WHEREAS THE OTHER ONE ENCOURAGES.
 Building closer to the road with the parking in the back, is that correct? The residential office zoning district does allow for a 15-foot setback if the parking lot is not in between the building and the street. If the parking lot is located between the building and the street, the setback is increased to 50 feet. But you couldn't build as high if you set it back because of the fence along the brick fence that separates this land from the development? Potentially. I mean, it depends how the site was laid out. It depends on how it was laid out, right.
 I just think that's important to think about what could go there if we just leave it alone. I think there's some people that think that the best idea is just to replicate what's across from Hearthstone, which is a small one-story office complex. That's probably not the best use of the land. If I was going to buy that land, I would build a lot more than that to get my money back.
 I think there's been a little interest in up and down 265 to build large office complexes. There's not too many places deep enough to do it. This would be one of those. Residential development there is going to be, I think, very difficult marketability wise, because even though it would be nice to see homes there, right up the road from that, we've got even smaller lots that are close to 265 and they can't sell them as residential lots because they're too close to the road.
 So unfortunately, it's the other way. It's south, it's close to the township intersection. But it's not necessarily important for this. I'm just using the point that it's tough for people to sell residential type spots. So you almost have to go office or commercial here. So I'm not ready to vote either way, frankly. I appreciate all the information and I do appreciate people's opinions.
 Whether it's tonight or whether it's, I've also had a couple people ask that they can't be here and they'd like to speak on this. So I told them between that and not having a full council and whatever else, I would like to hold it here. But that's up to the council. But I do appreciate the differences because I knew this was a new zoning relatively, what, January is when we did it. So it is new enough that I think digging on some more details on it might help us all. So that's all I'm going to say about it.
 Mayor, I respect Alderman Justin Tennant's request for holding it here on first reading, but I do want to give these people a chance to express their opinion. Oh, absolutely. John, I'm going to open it up for public comment. Right. So we'll open it up for public comment, and we can hold it on first reading and have two more readings before we vote the final time. Sure. Absolutely. That being said, I'm generally very pro-development and pro-growth in Fayetteville.
 But more than that, I'm pro free markets and choice for our citizens. Some people in our city council want walkable communities. I like walkable communities. When I go to a big city, I park my vehicle and I use public transit and I walk. It's very convenient. But I know there are a lot of people in our city that like big two acre lots. I think the touchstone or the touchstone to our policy should be choice.
 have a variety. Single family neighborhoods, quiet with no commercial development near, have other places where you've got mixed use, like uptown just south of the mall. So if you want to live in that environment, you can live and work downstairs and go walk to the movies, walk to Walmart, walk to the mall. There are advantages to that too. But variety in the marketplace is what's going to serve our people the best. So, and to Justin Tennant's point too also, you know, under the current zoning,
 We can build office buildings. Well, there's a big difference between an accountant's office and a lawyer's office in a restaurant. That will generate a lot more traffic and a lot more parking and a lot more noise and night hours and things like that. We lawyers and CPAs like to go home at 5 o'clock. Pizza restaurants go to midnight and 1 and 2 and 3 in the morning, et cetera.
 So those are things that we need to consider, and I'm sure these people want to express an opinion. I'll be quiet. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Is the applicant here, by the way? Good evening. I'm Blake Jorgensen. Good to see you all tonight. Lionel, good to see you in dry conditions. Our mayor was out in the storms, having to be with him late Saturday night, so it's always good to get some,
 Serious public service in that situation. Yeah, hopefully the rain will hold off. Don't want to take up too much time. There's a lot more public comment and this is a new zoning that when we came to the initial sit-down with Jonathan, in fact, it wasn't even, it was not, it wasn't available online so we just didn't know anything about it. The goal was to get something that was in a sense form-based and
 AND COMMUNITY SERVICES WAS OUR OPTION WITH THE BILL OF ASSURANCE TO LIMIT WHAT OPTIONS ARE WITHIN COMMUNITY SERVICES. AND THEN WE FOUND THIS ZONING DESIGNATION THAT WE FELT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR WHAT THE INTENDED USES WERE. AND WE FEEL THAT IT IS A DOWNZONING. WE FEEL IT IS APPROPRIATE IN THIS AREA. HOWEVER, WE DO UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE CONCERNS WITH THE NEIGHBORS AND WE'VE TRIED TO MEET WITH THEM AND DISCUSS THEM AND WE'RE CERTAINLY
 Okay with allowing it to sit at this meeting and wait to go to the next one because we know there's a lot more to Chew off than just a quick yes or no vote So I don't want to take up any more time if y'all have questions for us We're happy to answer them And we look forward to hearing public comment and anything else. Let us know. I appreciate it. Okay. Thanks a lot Okay
 I'm going to open it for public comment. This is how this little thing works. Everybody gets one turn to the microphone. Keep your comments addressed to me, please. If a council member decides to bring you back and ask a question, you can return back to the microphone. Okay? Please give us your name and address and away we go. My name is Bob Anderson. I live at 4844 Lavenden Place in Stonewood where I've been for 15 years.
 Before I start, I would like to ask everyone who's in the audience who is a homeowner in Stonewood or Copper Creek to please stand up. Now I would like all of you who are against the rezoning to please sit down. Thank you. As I've gotten into this issue, one word keeps coming up as a key to deciding whether to approve or deny this proposal. That word is compatibility.
 In the conclusion to a letter that City Attorney Kip Williams wrote to the Planning Commission on March 31st, he cited three of his previous memos to the Planning Commission and City Council in which he stressed the importance of compatibility by stating, and I quote, probably the most important factor and the underlying reason to have zoning in the first place is to promote compatibility among neighboring parcels, end quote.
 In another memo to city council a little more than a year ago, he stated, and I quote, I remain convinced compatibility with neighboring parcels must remain the lodestar in every rezoning consideration, end quote. How do you measure compatibility? In that same March 31st memo, Mr. Williams cited three court cases in which, and I quote,
 Substantial evidence of compatibility or lack of compatibility is found in the reasonable concerns and opinions of neighbors." Those court cases were City of Lowell versus the MNN Mobile Home Park in 1996, Thomas Petroleum v. West Helena in 1992, and Tanner versus City of Green Forest in 1990. How do the neighbors feel about this proposal?
 All of you should have received the spreadsheet that I put together showing the results of voting among the property owners of Stonewood. The owners of 13 commercial lots out of 14 said they were in favor of it. That's 100%. The homeowners overwhelmingly opposed it. Out of 105 homeowner lots, 89 voted their preference and 86 voted against it. That's almost 97%.
 The level of opposition to this proposal is indicated by the very high percentage of respondents, which was nearly 84%. If compatibility is indeed found in the reasonable concerns and opinions of neighbors, then there can be no question that this proposal is incompatible with the neighborhood. In the June 18, 2002 memo to the Planning Commission and City Council,
 Mr. Williams listed the factors recognized by the appellate courts of Arkansas that may be considered in rezoning issues. One of those factors is public opposition, which I've already discussed. You're going to hear from other homeowners about other factors. Here are those factors with the court cases that support them. Compatibility with adjacent zones or spot zoning. Increased litter. Potential for criminal activity.
 Those are all from Thomas Petroleum v. West Helena. Traffic, noise, decreasing value of adjoining land. Those are all from City of Lowell v. M&N Mobile Home Park. In addition to these factors supported by court cases, we will show that this rezoning proposal doesn't follow the city's master plan, City Plan 2030.
 Nor does it follow the Planning Department's own guidelines for the placement of Neighborhood Services general zoning. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Hello, my name is Craig Collins. I live at 3089 Waterstone Drive and I live alongside the brick wall that separates the subdivision from this proposed rezoning change.
 And so naturally, I'm pretty concerned because this is essentially in my backyard. Before I get into a discussion on how this will affect us, I just kind of wanted to give you a background story on who I am. I live at this home with my wife and six-year-old daughter. We've lived here less than a year. We're first-time homebuyers, and so this was easily the biggest investment of our lives.
 You know, our home buying experience was a stressful, difficult one. We looked at many homes. We could never seem to agree, as I'm sure most spouses can't on this sometimes. But when we walked into the home on Waterstone Drive, we fell in love.
 It was it was everything we dreamed of in a home. My wife had her dream kitchen I had my man cave so I could get away and my daughter had an adequate space to play out in the backyard and We were part of a nice peaceful quiet neighborhood away from the hustle and bustle of downtown Fayetteville Mar our fears are that?
 kind of the negative impacts that Bob kind of alluded to from having a pizzeria so close and such close proximity to us could kind of diminish the living situation that we've got. The first impact that we're concerned about is the increase in the noise levels. You know, I know the developers are planning to build an outdoor patio area with music
 you know behind the the restaurant and that's concerning to us because you know my daughter's bedroom window is you know merely yards from where this will be and so yeah I'm just concerned that when she's trying to sleep you know she may have a hard time we put her to bed early you know we she's a light sleeper we're all light sleepers you know we just kind of like a peaceful quiet home and so I
 I know that the Botanical Gardens, which is all the way across the street, every now and then there's live music there. We can even hear that, which is not too much of a problem, but this is going to be much closer to our home. We're just very concerned about that. Another thing we're concerned about are the unpleasant odors that come from a restaurant being so close.
 One of the favorite things we do is we go watch television on our back patio. After a long day of work, it's just a great place to just kind of decompress and just be together as a family.
 My fear is that the most aesthetically unpleasing aspects of this restaurant is what we'll be faced with, such as the dumpster and just the other smells that comes with the restaurant. I would just hate for something that we love to do so much to be diminished by this, and so I'm concerned about that. Another concern I have is light pollution.
 I know the developers are planning to build the parking lot on the east side of this restaurant, which will be pushed right up against our home.
 That just opens up concerns to us in terms of car lights coming in and glaring into our windows. We have a ton of windows in our living room and just across our house. We just don't want to feel like we always have to keep our blinds closed.
 So just something we're concerned about. Another thing is the increased security risk that comes from having an establishment that I presume will sell alcohol so close to us, whether it be DWI or potential property damage or potential break-ins, loitering, just rowdy patrons that may have had too much to drink.
 I just hate subjecting my daughter and my family in general to that. I'm just uncomfortable with it. Another problem I had with it was, I guess at the Planning Commission meeting, the debate on whether this is an up-zoning or a down-zoning.
 We're professionals in this neighborhood and we can discern the difference between residential office and neighborhood services general.
 I know that under residential office, a building height can be 60 feet compared to 45 feet with neighborhood services general, and that was a point that was brought up. But to us, that's indistinguishable. That difference, neither one would be good, but I really don't see either of those.
 being a distinguishable difference, whereas the restaurant size, 2,000 square feet allowed by residential office, up to 8,000 square feet offered by Neighborhood Services General, that is a big difference. And that's kind of what we're facing here and just something we're really uncomfortable with.
 you know i feel like you know they they probably have other choices in other areas where they can operate in the city and but but we don't you know we've bought our homes and and this is where we're going to be in summary these i feel like these negative impacts will harm our family it'll harm the families in the stonewood subdivision
 I hope our concerns are considered and I hope I really hope that this isn't just a monetary decision Because if it is then, you know, we'll probably lose because I can't compete with that, you know I'll never contribute as much revenue to the city of Fayetteville as mr. James or as pizzeria can but I don't think that makes my value or worth to the city any less than his I
 I resisted getting involved in this because I thought it was a lost cause. But I thought it was important for my daughter to see me stand up here and fight for what I believe in and that even lost causes are worth fighting for. And I wanted her to know that she was worth fighting for. In the words of the great Jimmy Stewart in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, sometimes we fight for the lost causes harder than any other because one simple truth, love thy neighbor.
 So, I hope that we're considered in this, in the decision making process and thank you for your time. Can I? Let's not have any outbursts here, okay? I was just going to address him. Just thank you for speaking. I talked to you on the phone. I appreciate you coming. And second of all, you mentioned your daughter. She sat here for over two hours and has been perfect. So thank you so much for your obvious really good parenting skills.
 Mayor Jordan, council members, my name is Steven Val. I live at 4868 Trails End Lane, which is part of the Stonewood subdivision. I'd like to follow up on something that Mr. Collins said, and that is the commercialization aspect of this issue. As he said, there's not a single property owner in either subdivision that can contribute the revenue that a pizzeria would. Thank you.
 But we're concerned that, and we certainly can't argue, don't argue that a pizzeria would be nice, but in its appropriate place. We have what I, and I'm bragging here, we feel it's one of the most beautiful subdivisions in the city. It's very quiet, very peaceful.
 Yesterday, for example, I was coming in from out on 412 East, and so I turned on Butterfield Couch Road and then came the back way, and I come down Hearthstone and through Copper Creek. And just in that little short trip, and this was about 630 in the afternoon, I saw at least 10 children out playing on the sidewalks, riding bicycles. Some of them get in the street. I saw...
 NEIGHBORS, YOU KNOW, STANDING OUT IN THEIR YARDS, TALKING, JUST CONVERSING. I MEAN, IT'S A VERY PEACEFUL, WONDERFUL NEIGHBORHOOD. AND WE DON'T WANT TO SEE IT COMMERCIALIZED. AS MR. COLLINS SAID, THE APPLICANT CERTAINLY HAS OTHER AREAS THAT WOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR A PIZZERIA. THE OWNERS OF THE PROPERTY.
 certainly have other uses to which this property can be put. But as it's already been mentioned, it's zoned RO, and there are other businesses in those commercial lots. Looking at the, I don't know if this, yeah, this little feeder road, I can't hold it still, feeder road right here is Castlewood Drive, and if you go up there just a little bit above the top of the picture, there's,
 there are two commercial buildings right there that are totally compatible. We don't even really notice that they're there. I can't tell you what businesses in that building are so inconspicuous. Now, not that they're nonexistent, there's 
 cars parked there all the time. It's during normal business hours and it's unobtrusive and it fits in with the neighborhood. And this intersection, as you know... Steven, could you speak more into the microphone? Oh, thank you. I'm sorry.
 And the intersection here, as you know, leads across the street to the Botanical Garden. There are always people crossing out of the neighborhood into that intersection to get to the Botanical Garden to access the trail system. So it's not a place where just vehicle traffic is. There's a lot of foot traffic across that intersection.
 Mayor, might I be permitted to use some slides of my own? I have about six, and I'll be quick. Yes, let me read what our rules say. It says a simple majority of the city council members present and voting, and we have six, may authorize representative of the Fayetteville Citizens Group opposing the ordinance or resolution to present an electronic visual aid not to exceed five minutes. So if one city council member would make a motion to allow him to present that. So moved. Sure.
 Second. Well, I need something on screen here. Okay, I got it. I got it. I got it. All right. We have a motion and a second to allow the presentation. Yes, that's correct. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. LeTourne. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Thank you. Here we go. The first slide, we think that at the Planning Commission level too much emphasis was placed upon this traditional urban form pattern and commercial development.
 And again, we want to see the city grow and we want to see commerce, we want to see more businesses in their appropriate place. But this is part of the memo that the planning department provided to the planning commission. The first bullet point among the goals of the city plan 2030, the proposed rezoning represents a potential for both infill development and development in traditional urban form pattern.
 Well, it does present that opportunity, but it's in the wrong place. I mean, we are a quite peaceful residential neighborhood. And in the same memo, the planning department said, though, that this particular site is not generally thought of as an infill site. And then one thing that was discussed a lot is the last bullet point that emphasizes that
 The area lacks any non-residential goods and services within walking distance, and this development pattern has resulted in residents being required to drive to meet any daily needs. That's exactly why we're there. Our neighborhood is unique in that we're very quiet, very peaceful.
 Very pretty, but we have access to anywhere in the city that we want to go in about 15 minutes. And so we don't want to walk to get our groceries or to do whatever. That's why we're there. There was discussion along the same lines as walking and vehicles. If we go to this slide, the proposed zoning, the NSG is a vehicle oriented zoning.
 then it allows for construction of businesses which would pull in and would require parking spaces for a lot of vehicles. And as this slide shows, this is part of the city's documentation when the ordinance was changed to create the NSG classification. The RSF-4, which is what we are,
 is generally should be, if it's going to be bounded by anything, would be bounded by neighborhood services limited, as this slide clearly shows. And then that would serve as a buffer to neighborhood services general or CS. There was additional memoranda discussed at the Planning Commission meeting on the next slide about this being...
 would promote commercial and medium density urban residential development. We're not an urban area. We're not downtown Fayetteville. We're not close to downtown Fayetteville. We don't want to be in a medium intensity area or we wouldn't have bought there. And then the next slide, the same different date, different memo, again emphasizes medium density or medium intensity urban residential developments.
 That's not where we are. The next slide, there was confusion about whether or not this was an upzoning or a downzoning. City Attorney Williams pointed out at the commission meeting that it is definitely an upzoning.
 And this slide from the city's records show how these particular zones should stack together. And definitely, Neighborhood Services General is definitely an upzoning from CS or from NSL. This particular slide does not show the RO classification, but this is definitely a proposed upzoning.
 And the next slide, again, is a representation of how these particular zones ideally would fit together. The next slide shows the area in red is the area that's proposed to be rezoned, and that's parts of lots one and two. Those lots actually extend down. This is the lot line. So they have actually...
 have property that is presently zoned RO, this right here, and they also have property that's zoned RSF4, this portion here. The rest of this property here is RSF4. And if you'll see, the owners of these lots here on the east side of the wall also own this property on the other side of the wall. It's all RSF4. And if we go to the next slide, that shows
 the proposed rezoning where this area in red would be neighborhood services general and we still would have to be surrounded by NSF4 with the exception of these commercial lots right here. If you look at the next slide, this is a view of some of the commercial lots. That's Mr. Anderson's house right there. This is the Greystone entrance and so just to the right here is where the two existing
 business buildings are. If we could go to the next slide. There are the two business buildings that are there. They are totally compatible with the neighborhood. And like I said, we don't even notice that they're there. They're pretty buildings. They almost look like houses. In fact, that one used to be a house, but in any event, totally compatible. And they're in an RO zone. And I
 As I said, we think that it should be left RO and not rezoned because the owners can develop the land commercially in an RO and they can build something similar to this that won't be nearly as obnoxious and obtrusive as a pizza hut. The next slide just shows the area where the rezoning would occur and where the building would go. There are the houses along Waterstone.
 There we go. The commercial buildings are to the left of that picture. And I think that's, yeah, that's the end of the slides. Thank you. All of the factors or considerations that Mr. Anderson told the court about out of those court cases are established in case law. And I'm not going to stand here and act like this is a court. It's not. But those cases are instructive in that those are very important considerations.
 They should be considered when considering a rezoning request, and not the least of which, in fact, maybe one of the most important ones, is compatibility and the attitude of the surrounding property owners towards the proposition. In effect, what the applicant is urging the council to do is engage in prohibited spot zoning, because spot zoning, by definition, is the allowance of...
 a special benefit or use that is not only incompatible with the surrounding area, but also incompatible with the city's long-range zoning plan, which this is. It's incompatible with both. Zoning should be by districts or areas, not by particular individual lots or pieces of land. Spot zoning, which is what this would be,
 MAKES UNJUSTIFIED EXCEPTIONS. AND I CALL THIS AN UNJUSTIFIED EXCEPTION BECAUSE AS I SAID, THERE ARE OTHER USES TO WHICH THIS PROPERTY CAN BE PUT AND THERE ARE OTHER AREAS WHERE A PIZZA PARLOR CAN BE BUILT. THIS PROPOSAL DEPARTS FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE AND OVERARCHING CITY PLAN AND IT'S CONTRARY TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD SURROUNDING AREA AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
 against it, obviously very, very adamantly. I'll close with one other thought, and this comes from the case law too. This particular piece of ground might yield more income to the owners if it was a pizza hut than it would if it was a commercial building similar to the ones that we saw on my slides. But rezoning, and this is from the case law again, rezoning is not justified
 Solely on the ground that isn't that it is necessary to put attractive land to its most lucrative use There are other uses to which this land can be put its speculation to say the other uses would be More lucrative or less lucrative, but whether or not this particular rezoning would result in the most lucrative use of the land is
 is not an important consideration. In fact, it should not be a consideration at all. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor and the City Council, Peter Tonneson again. I actually live at 3500 Hearthstone Drive and I've lived there just over three years and it is a wonderful neighborhood.
 And one of the reasons I live there is because I don't have daily needs, and those needs I have, I drive to. And the last PowerPoint that was shown on the street corner was a little lamppost, an antique-style, late 19th century lamppost. When you're in that neighborhood in the evening, especially in the warmer months...
 It's like living in a Van Gogh. I mean, it is the most peaceful, delightful place with people quietly walking their dogs and their kids as the sun goes down. I know urban. I grew up in New York City in an Italian neighborhood until I was 22 and left. And I know urban because in my 20s, I went to law school in Washington, D.C.
 And my first wife and I, and there's been more than one, but my first wife and I enjoyed the Smithsonian. We enjoyed DuPont Circle. We enjoyed Georgetown. There's nothing wrong with that lifestyle, but it's one that whether we're young in our lives or old in our lives, we have decided to eschew and live in a quiet place. Now, what I've been asked to talk about and limit my remarks to, you'll be happy to know,
 are three very closely related topics. I'm not going to discuss the law because the City Council knows better than I do that traffic, off-street parking, and streets are always an issue. And that's what I'm going to talk about factually. The law is pretty clear on it. As far as my presentation, we found out last night, or yesterday, that we might not, we weren't guaranteed the use of PowerPoint. So what I've done all day today is prepare packets
 WITH PICTURES IF THE COUNCIL CAN RECEIVE THEM. AND I ALSO PREPARED SINCE THIS UP ZONING DOWN ZONING AND COMPARATIVE ZONING IS STILL AN ISSUE, I HAVE A FOCUSED VERSION OF A CHART I PREPARED EARLIER. IF THAT'S OKAY I'LL GIVE IT TO MR. MISKIN. THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR. I HAD 12 OF THEM BUT THEY SOLD LIKE HOT CAKES SO WE'RE DOWN TO EIGHT. BUT THAT SHOULD COVER THE MAYOR'S
 Mr. Williams and the aldermen who are present and I'll bring more if this goes over. I hope it doesn't All right traffic Let's start with parking because we don't know what this restaurant is going to look like if it were built under NSG it could be built up to 8,000 square feet Without a further permit. It wouldn't be a conditional use. It would be a permitted use and
 So what I did to assess the traffic is I looked, I created comps, I came up with eight comps, and those are stand-alone restaurants, they're not a part of any kind of mall, so they're not sharing parking facilities with other businesses. Stand-alone restaurants on about two acres with a building of about 8,000 square feet
 and within three miles of the intersection. I think the farthest one was three and a quarter miles. And so I looked at Red Lobster, Colton's, Kobe Hibachi Grill and Sushi, Outback Steakhouse, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Chili's Grill and Bar, Olive Garden, and Logan's Roadhouse. And what I came up with is that the average of those, and it's an arbitrary number, is 7,200 square feet.
 on two acres, 1.99 acres, with an average of 137 designated parking spaces on paved area of just over an acre of the two acres that are the average. Then, to be fair, I consider that lots one and two are 1.8 acres at this time,
 They're 90% of two acres. So I adjusted those estimates down. And what it shows is that we would anticipate, now this is a theoretical number, but I did the standard deviations on it. However, the other lawyers told me if I got into standard deviations, they would strangle me. So I'm not going to talk about it. But you would expect to see 122 parking spaces here, plus or minus 13.
 for a restaurant of about 7,200 square feet that could be built without a permit. What does that mean? An office like a dentist's office. My dentist is a dentist, two nurses, two hygienists, a secretary and a receptionist. So you have seven employees and you might have four patients and four more waiting. So you might need 15 parking spaces for a dentist's office.
 For a restaurant you need 20 spaces just for the daytime staff You got two managers two hostesses. I know because my better half is a restaurant Assistant manager need two managers two hostesses six day Servers two to four runners you need an expo and you have a half a dozen chefs Working everything from soups to preparation and then one or two dishwashers. That's daytime. I
 So you need 20 parking spaces just to make no money. So there could seriously be 110 to 140 parking spaces on those acres of land. All that traffic is going to come or go through Hearthstone intersection. That's a lot different. If you consider the greater neighborhood is 180 acres for the community, that's
 Those houses average something fewer than three parking spaces per house. They're two or three house garages, two or three space garages. In Copper Creek, we are not allowed to park overnight. Stonewood, I don't think, is that restrictive. But there is no off-street parking. Remember the debate there was a couple of years ago about off-street parking and should we require restaurants to have X amount of off-street parking? Mr. Williams said, be careful what you do here. Okay.
 In this neighborhood, there is no place to park unless they park across the street. There are 59 spaces that this city council bought for the botanical garden in 2004 for three quarters of a million dollars. And then there's the 42 new spaces about two tenths of a mile down that serve the park. So there are 101 spaces across the street.
 But other than that, the restaurant would be expected to build its own spaces. And that's a lot of spaces if you compare it to the average for the community. You have to think in terms of compatibility. Then what I did, to be fair, is I said, let's look at non-residential uses within the community. Copper Creek has, the swimming pool has six spaces. The tennis courts have three. The office buildings that you looked at, one has six.
 I don't remember what the other has. They add up to 29. So if you take those four properties and divide by four, you'd say, well, they have an average of seven parking spaces. That's a high. Compare that to 122 for this spot-zoned restaurant. And we just feel that it cannot pass muster under any test of compatibility. All right, traffic. The community, can we get a master street plan up, please, and...
 And while we're doing this, you know, to the credit of the city, your predecessors planned this, zoned it, opened it up in about 2003, and filled it with almost 370 families in the space of less than 15 years. I mean, this was a great idea, and it protects the gem of Fayetteville, which is the botanical gardens and that side of the park.
 which is the non-recreational side of the park. You have the baseball fields, which are fine. They're up in the northwest corner. But this was a great idea, and why, I don't know why anyone would want to put a pizza place. Do we have, can I look at a bigger street map, please? The master street plan would be good. All right, that's, now I'm not a real lawyer anymore like Mr. Val, but I, so I took the cat toy, which is a little pointer, but you'll just see that my hands tremble now, so. All right, yeah, that's good enough.
 Well, no, can you back up a little more please, Jonathan? Thanks, there you go. So from that community, there were only four ways to Fayetteville. There's Albright in the north, Greystone Drive, Hearthstone Drive, which is where the traffic light is, and Zion Road. That's it, unless you want to really go east down an old wire, which no one ever does. So let's talk about those four intersections.
 Hearthstone is the only one that has a traffic light now, thank God. George and I have sat there on Hearthstone three times and watched cars go 55 miles an hour through that traffic light because they came over the hill headed south and they didn't see it. So it's still, it's good. It's a beautiful intersection, but it's not perfect. If you want to go south, you wouldn't go to Zion Road because the problem is at Zion, let me see, there it is, right there.
 That's an unprotected intersection and you can't really tell, but it's at the top of a small hill, a hummock. And when you get there, headed west, let's say you're going south, so you're pointed west, you want to make a left turn. You now have traffic coming from this part of Zion Road by the athletic club. The cats must have killed it. All right. Peter, you've got to stay at the microphone. I can't hear you.
 I mean, please stay at the microphone. People can't hear you. Oh, I'm sorry. No, I didn't say anything. All right. Well, you have me there. Anyway, let's say you're coming from running your weekly errands and you've bought all the stuff that you need for the next week. So you're coming, you're on Zion between Thompson and, yeah, there you go. Thank you very much. If you make that left turn, you'll be doing 40 miles an hour by the time you get there.
 to the other part of Zion, and you're sitting on a hill, and you're on Zion now. Let's change again. You're on Zion headed west. You want to make that turn. You've got traffic coming at you from 40 miles an hour. You have to cross the break in the median strip and then turn south. The other problems with Zion is in that first bend in the road in Zion, well, first of all, Zion's about, it narrows to about 1 12 cars wide. Then at that first bend in the road, there is a single-lane bridge with a 5-ton limit,
 And it's just not really any way to come or go. And I don't know anyone who would come or go, even if you're headed south. If you're headed north, you definitely wouldn't go. We'll talk about Albright real quick. Well, no, let's talk about Greystone next. Because Greystone is similar to Zion, only more so. It's also at the top of a hill. But Greystone doesn't have a break in the median strip. You cannot go south from Greystone unless you four-wheel it.
 You can turn north, but even that is tricky because the cars are coming at least 40 miles an hour if they turned on at Hearthstone and maybe 55. And it's a tricky turn if you're going north. Plus, to get to Greystone, for most of the community, not all of it, but most of it, you would have to make an extra right turn and a left turn, which kind of isn't human nature. Once you're on Hearthstone, that's the main drag in town. It really is not...
 If there's a car parked on Hearthstone, you have to wait till opposite direction traffic goes by. There's not enough, it's not that big a street. But once cars are on Hearthstone, they stay on Hearthstone. And then as far as Albright, that is not a protected, thank you, that is not a protected intersection. But it's a good one. It's at the bottom of a dip where the Copper Creek enters the lake. And it's pretty much wide open.
 But to get to it, you either have to go all the way east through Copper Creek to George Anderson, I think it's called. I don't know. I never go there because it's so far away. Or you can go up through Embry Acres, and there's a little road. That's it. Thanks. And that'll get you to Albright. Albright is a rural residential road with no painted stripe or anything, but it's safe, and it's okay if you're going north, except you would never go east to go north, so...
 Really, all the traffic is going to go in or out of that intersection where they want to put the restaurant with 122 parking spaces. And the last point I'll make this evening for sure is that in the package, they refer to Crossover Road as a... May I have that? Is that the master street plan? Can we go to the legend? Yeah, blow that legend up please, Jonathan.
 THAT'S AS LARGE AS IT CAN GO. THAT'S NOT THE MASTER STREET PLAN. I ASSURE YOU IT IS. IS IT? IT'S PART OF IT. ALL RIGHT, LOOK IN YOUR PACKETS. PAGE, PLEASE, PAGE, I THINK IT'S THE SIXTH PAGE. THE SEVENTH PAGE MAYBE. YEAH, THE SEVENTH PAGE. ON THE 2030 CITY PLAN MASTER STREET PLAN, IT SHOWS THAT THE CITY PLAN HAS A LARGE PACKET
 Crossover Road is not a principal arterial. Martin Luther King is a principal arterial. College Avenue is a principal arterial. Crossover, north of Township, is a principal arterial parkway. That's why there are over a hundred trees planted north of just Zion. I didn't count. I walked and measured with my feet,
 And then with the 30-inch military step and finally got frustrated and went home. Yeah, I know. It's okay, Mark. I'm Mr. Kenyon. He raised his eyebrows. Yeah, I went home and got a ruler and I measured those trees. And they are 10 yards. I'm sorry, sir. All right. Yes, sir. They're 10 yards apart, those trees. And there are 130 of them and six shrubs. That's a parkway. Okay.
 I mean, the city has invested this money and planning to build a beautiful road through a beautiful area on the north side of town. And it should be treated as a parkway, and it should be treated as residential office, which is what the landowners bought it as. They're professional real estate developers. They knew what it was. It can be developed that way. It can be developed tastefully and sensibly and sensitively. Thank you.
 I just have a question for Peter, if that's all right, Peter. Do you mind if I ask a question real quick? No. I'll have to talk to the mayor. It's fine. I've been thinking about this and you make some great points. I have no idea how I'm going to end up voting on this. I think we may end up holding it. I'm not sure. You know on Mission Boulevard where Tim's Pizza is and Eureka Pizza is? Yes. You know where those two are located? Yes, sir, I do.
 It's a similar location where those two pizza establishments are located just off the main highway there, nestled in the neighborhoods. Can you make any thoughts or comments on how this would be different?
 If I recall right, I can never remember the name of the second pizza joint there. I know Eureka Pizza. The road... What's that? Tim's was the pizza joint. I don't know. All right. I believe... I know there's a second one. That's a windy road. It's a little bit hillier, and it's kind of nestled, as I recall. I mean, I've never eaten there, but I've driven by there. This is an open area. Yeah.
 I mean, lots one and two, I would encourage the council, if you're not going to vote it down tonight, which I think you should, but to go there, take a tour, look at the neighborhood. It's wide open. I mean, from that east end of the park, you're going to see these two lots. There's nothing to stop you from seeing whatever gets built there. And so what needs, if anything is built there, it's going to affect the whole experience area.
 of people visiting the botanical garden, people walking on the trail at the botanical garden, not just us. I mean, that's the difference, I would say, is that Eureka Pizza, I'll look at it again next time I go by there, but I don't think it's a comparable setting. And certainly there isn't a botanical garden across the street, I don't think, from Mission, is there? There's a large cemetery, very large cemetery. It's pretty quiet.
 It's kind of quiet. It's why? I'm sorry. There's a lot of traffic there. It's why? You want me to visit it once? No, I don't know. I don't know. So I don't think it's the same kind of open setting that the Botanical Garden sits in. It's my view. It just looked like a similar scenario, so I thought I would see what you thought. Two quick things. One, Peter, I appreciate you putting together the parking numbers, the parking space numbers.
 You've made me want to go and look at a 60 foot office building and how many parking spaces it might have. I'm guessing less, but I'm wanting to be educated on that. So that is something I want to look at. Because what I'm trying to think about is what other things can be built there?
 And also, people keep talking about pizza huts and stuff like that. 80% of businesses, restaurants fail. So we have to look at the next thing and the next thing and the next thing that go into that area. I'm not saying this to you necessarily. I'm just saying for people that are just saying you can't let a pizza place go in there, we've got to think about way past that because there's an 8 out of 10 chance this thing doesn't last. Now, it may. I have no idea. But...
 MOST OF THEM DON'T. SO I JUST, I THINK WE'RE A LITTLE BIT QUICK TO THINK THAT WE'RE VOTING ON WHICH BUSINESS GOES THERE. WE'RE VOTING ON WHAT ZONING GOES THERE. IT'S A ZONING ISSUE. AND NOT, WE DON'T THEN DECIDE WHAT BUSINESS GOES IN THERE. SO JUST, BUT I DO APPRECIATE YOU BRINGING UP THE PARKING BECAUSE I WANT TO GO LOOK AT SOME OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT COULD BE VOTED. MAY I RESPOND BRIEFLY WITH THE POINT THAT I MADE TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION?
 Actually, this point came from Mr. Anderson in the first memo he wrote to his homeowners. He was an accountant. There's a high turnover rate in restaurants. We know that. I made the point that if you think about the corner of Van Ash and North Mall Avenue, there's one restaurant there that was just the tilted kilt and it went under. That's the third iteration of restaurant in that building since I moved here. You know I've only been here six years.
 Building on the northwest corner of N-Ash and North Mall Avenue was two restaurants. One of them was painted white, and it is now a daycare center. And the final point, apropos of this, is that about six weeks ago, there was an article in the Democrat Gazette, which I'll make available now that we have more time if we have more time.
 that talked about the high failure rate of pizza restaurants. I mean, it is a demonstrably high number. Is this going to be a pizza restaurant? We don't know. Right now, it's a pig in a poke. That's why I have to come up with these hypothecated numbers, because we don't know. What we do know is if it's zoned NSG, it's going to be 8,000 feet of we don't know what. In an area that has 180 acres of beautiful...
 They're kind of, they're either country French or French country. It's pseudo country French, but we're all happy living there. And then you've got 600, yeah, 650 acres of park, and it's all R. Thank you, Peter. No, no, no, no, like, come on. Good evening. Good evening. I'd like to start by thanking you, Mayor Jordan and the City Council, for allowing this opportunity to be heard today.
 If we're taking your time to give serious consideration to what the property owners have to say, I'm not here thinking that this is a lost cause. I am relying on your, you know, what you fairly considering what we're presenting here. And please accept the presence of everybody here as a vehement objection to this rezoning. The internet's a wonderful thing. No one I know buys anything anymore without researching it thoroughly.
 sunglasses, a stereo, a car, a house, a piece of land. We all did our homework. We knew it was accepted by all of us here that when we elected to build our homes in Hearthstone and Copper Creek and invest substantial money to do so, that there would eventually be office buildings at the entrance. That was known, it was accepted as a condition of ownership, and we accepted it.
 And we still do. Construction in conformance with RO zoning is completely acceptable and welcome. There are two RO compliant office buildings which you saw. I don't think that a single comment was raised when they were being built. It was the bargain that we struck. Again, the eventual construction of office space is an arrangement we all are aware of. So why is this relevant?
 because we were also aware of what was not allowed to be built, namely red lobsters or chilies or come-and-go convenience stores or McDonald's or fast food restaurants or drive-through strip malls with vape shops or any number of high-traffic, high-volume businesses of any of those types. And this is where some would say, well, we're only talking about a pizza shop. And that sounds great, but the rest of us are filled with skepticism born of experience
 that once the zoning cat is out of the bag, anything goes and there's no stopping it. Money changes people's plans and minds every day. If the zoning when we built houses and moved in the neighborhood would have allowed for the construction of any of the types of establishments I just named, most if not all the present tenants would have elected to forego building there and or moving into Stonewood or Copper Creek and would have established our homes and neighborhoods elsewhere.
 and myself for sure we all made the decision to live here completely aware of the zoning and consciously incorporate that into our decisions so this is not something that hadn't been considered mark foster the developer of stonewood and copper creek also had a hand in developing brookberry and savannah and all of them nice very nice and quite popular neighborhoods he zoned the lots ro for good reason so he could sell the home lots
 Mark Foster would still be raising cows in those fields if the lots and questions were zoned NSG or CS when he was trying to sell it to us. Why after all the commitment so many good taxpayer citizens have made to invest in the integrity and safety of these neighborhoods and to do what we have done to make these neighborhoods our home, why would it be okay to zone the lots NSG now?
 Why should we face the dim prospects of lower property values and selling our homes in a neighborhood that is way less desirable than when we bought here? It is simply not acceptable to the residents who have made this neighborhood their home and invested a ton of sweat equity to suddenly allow rezoning of these lots. To do so would be patently unfair to all of us, to the investments we've made, and the safety of the children who we all try to do our very best to raise here.
 Rezoning is changing the rules in the middle of the game. It isn't fair or equitable, it just isn't right. I've met Philip Cameron and Max Parker, and they're fine gentlemen. That said, they're in the business of real estate. I do not know what they're into. I'm only here to talk about the speculative gamble they took when they bought RO Zone lots 1 and 2 at the entrance of Hearthstone. It was the spring of 2008, just before the bottom fell out of the real estate and every other market.
 Mr. Cameron and Mr. Parker bought lots one and two with profit in mind, and these are sophisticated real estate men who are fully aware of the RO zoning when they purchased. They didn't see the crash coming like a lot of people bought the lots anticipating quit flip, nothing but a money play, and there's nothing wrong with that.
 the only problem is it didn't work out the way they hoped and and would have been sitting on the land they hoped it would and they've been sitting on the land waiting for the right buyer to come along which brings us to where we are today here before you ladies and gentlemen of the city council to ask you to hold them to the bargain they struck in 2008 and not reward them for taking a calculated risk that didn't quite work out in the windfall they wanted through 401ks and personal investment most all of us own stock
 Many of us research or watch the markets and buy hoping we hit the winners. All of us want to hit it big, the big home runs, be it stock or land deals. Alas, they don't always work out as well as we hoped when we hit the buy button. Many stocks lose money or languish flat for years. I bought stock in 2008 before the crash. Lots of us did. Most of those stock values suffered pretty badly.
 i don't know about anyone in this room but i've never gotten a call from my broker saying you're a smart guy mark you just didn't deserve the losses that market served up to you on your investments how about we rezone i mean reclassify your stock from b common to a preferred so you get a big return on the investment you deserve when you bought in let's take that sears stock you own and change it for some walmart never happened
 We have to live with our stock picks and choices. The rest of us have to be patient, hope things turn around, and get out when we can with the same stock we started with and move on to the next investment, the next stock, the next acre of land, or the next gamble. Back in 2000, the city council saw a fit to zone these lots RO. There's only one community that will really be impacted by changing the zoning of these lots, and that is the homeowners of Stonewood and Copper Creek.
 Everybody else goes home to somewhere else. The only impact of Philip Cameron and Max Parker will be extra zeros in their bank account. They don't live here. They won't deal with the aftermath and the traffic and the noise and the light and the increased likelihood of crime. The rezoning will foster. City Plan 2030 passed in July 2011 by the City Council designates certain streets principal arterial, such as Joyston College,
 Lots of businesses, lots of restaurants, lots of NSG and CS zoning. Other streets, crossover from Township all the way up to Ivy Street at the Fayetteville-Springdale line, to be specific, are designated principal arterial parkways. The parkway is a beautiful boulevard with over 130 trees meticulously planted and cared for the entire length. It's a truly wonderful and very beautiful parkway. And we have to assume this parkway wasn't so well thought out and meticulously constructed before.
 So a developer who is dissatisfied with his return on investment with two lots he bought could pack an outback steakhouse or a strip mall as long as a football field or whatever else onto the corner of Hearthstone Drive. Think about the cell tower at the corner of Crossover and Old Wire. Think about all the effort that was made by the city council to require the developer to go to such expense to disguise it as a giant redwood. It's a nice job. Looks very nice. Do we deserve any less...
 Do we deserve any less in our literal front yard? The burdens on the developer to show how rezoning will result in an overall benefit to the community will result in greater good for the majority of the residents in the impacted community. They can't do that. They haven't done it and they won't be able to do it. There is no fiduciary duty or moral compass or some quest to do something wonderful for the greater good that is guiding this rezoning request.
 Plain and simple, it's a shot at putting a bigger wad of cash in a couple people's pockets at the expense of 350 homeowners who pay a lot of taxes. The homeowners of Hearthstone and Copper Creek put a lot of money in the pockets of this city we love, and we're glad to do it. All we respectfully ask of the City Council is for equitable and fair treatment in kind from the fiduciaries of our city government charged with protecting the citizens' interests and to please grant the residents' requests...
 to deny the rezoning from RO to NSG. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the city council again for your time this evening. Your kind consideration of us and our respective interests is sincerely appreciated. Mark, I believe we have a question from Sarah. Yes, I did not hear your name. I'm sorry, I'm not here. Your I apologize. I probably did start without saying that. My name is Mark Scalise. I live at 3268 Hearthstone.
 I've been a resident there for 14 years. Thank you very much. And I apologize for that. I missed that somehow there. Thank you. But, Mark, I will say I think that's the nicest metal pine tree we have in the city. I think it's a pretty nice city. Just for the record. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. Who else would like to address us? Folks, folks, folks, just stay orderly here. Hello, Mr. Mayor. My name is Heather Hudgens, and my mother and I,
 live at 3081 Hearthstone Drive. If you turn from Crossover onto Hearthstone, we are the very first house on the right. The front of our house faces Hearthstone. The brick wall is right to our left, and the two properties are right on the adjacent right there. So we will be impacted by the traffic there.
 coming in and out right on Hearthstone, just right over the noise from the traffic. And the side in the back of our house is adjacent to the property as well, and will be affected by whatever parking and outdoor activities, patio, music, will be right there. So now that you know where we are, due to my mother's health status, for it to be a walkable neighborhood services is a moot point for her.
 because it would just be too difficult for her to walk that far. So you can consider that there are several retirees in our community. And so you could probably consider for some of those, and for some of the disabled, walkable is a moot point. And to have an urbanization right there for it to be walkable for the neighborhood services is a non-starter for a lot of people in our neighborhood.
 And along those lines, as far as it being walkable, I just wanted to point out to you, there is a call log available to you through community officer Dallas Brashears to show the amount of accidents that have happened at that particular intersection between 2015 and to the current day, I think to March of this year. And it will show the amount of accidents.
 that were called in from that intersection, and it does not include the call-ins of accidents at that location when someone has gone down the street and made the phone call. So essentially there are more accidents on those forms than what shows. Those accidents show before the traffic signal was put in and after, and it shows there are just as many after.
 That intersection is very walkable, as many of my neighbors have already mentioned. In particular, seniors, adults, a lot of young children just learning to ride their bikes with their parents, travel across that road, and babies and strollers and dogs, just trying to get to the Fayetteville trail system. And I feel that we just cannot absorb more traffic at a medium intensity level in a safe manner.
 Secondly, we have our entire life savings into this home. This is my mother's retirement home. We chose Stonewood because it was a green space and because of the atmosphere, as many neighbors have already attested to. We had security knowing that in 2001, the zoning plan of residential office had already been made when we bought our retirement home.
 Now the property owner wants to rezone. We bought the two lots knowing that it was zoned residential office. He does not live here, and we live here 24-7, 365 days a year. And neighborhood services zoning is intended for use by the neighborhood, the people. The people of Stonewood neighborhood have voted that we do not want the neighborhood services zone.
 Please give more weight to the people who live at this location 24-7, 365 days a year, and vote no to the rezoning and keep the originally intended plan in place of a lower intensity zoning of residential office. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this? I'm Suzanne Zamora, and I live at 3103 Waterstone. Mine is the corner lot where the river flows.
 where the creek bed runs through all the way to the road. I own that whole acre plus the house. You, sorry I won't point, two of you were here last time, so I want to get up and talk again. All of you were not here last time. I had a flooding this weekend, and that whole acre, or two acres, that's on that property from Hearthstone all the way to my property,
 flooded into my property all the water and my yard flooded too i know it's a 100 year flood zone and it's only supposed to go up to the corner of my property which it did not it went up to my deck
 I have pictures to show you if you would like. No, that's fine. We're trying to stay with the rezoning here now. Pardon? Please stay with the rezoning. I am. I'm just saying that all that water coming from that property, there's going to be a roadway, there's going to be a parking lot. Where's the water going to go? In my field. Okay. All goes in my field. It's part of my property.
 And if you put a pizza place there, the lady stated last time from over at the Botanical Gardens that she was for it. All those healthy people that walk and ride their bikes, why do they want to go to a pizza place? I mean, give me a break. They're not going to eat the pizza. And I think I will boycott it. I will not eat there. Yeah.
 And all the lights, and so my bedroom window is right at that parking lot. So I am against it. Okay, so your concern about the rezoning will create more flooding on your property? That too, yes. Okay. The noise, the stink, my back porch, I mean, I can hear the Botanical Gardens, and the music goes past 10 o'clock, she said not, but it does, it goes until midnight sometimes, which is fine, I've never complained.
 And I've only lived there, this is my third summer, and I have seen several wrecks there out my back. The ambulance, the fire truck goes by all the time. Okay. So yes, I am against it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, good evening. My name's Max Parker, one of the owners. Couple of things I just wanted to address. There's several misconceptions throughout the neighborhood with the development.
 One of them that I'm hoping that some of the members here can address, and I think it's been attempted a little bit, is what can occur in RO, which is quite a bit. When I read RO, it seems like there's a lot of things that can be developed in RO. Philip and I did buy the land in 2008. We priced the land in 2008. We've never changed the price of the land since 2008. We did not change the price of the land based on rezoning or not.
 So, we're not trying to, there's no financial gain to us whether it's rezoned or not. If the neighborhood would like to buy it and keep it green space forever, the price is the same. It's the same price. So, I've heard several times stories alluding to greedy developers and trying to make a profit and I'm sorry, but that's not true.
 If there is a way that you guys can help people to understand what can be built in RO and what can be built in the NSG, I think that would be beneficial. I hear traffic, noise, smells, and my understanding is those things are possible in RO. So I'm not sure that the zoning is all applicable to a lot of the reasons that I hear that people don't like it.
 I don't live in the neighborhood. I do recognize it's a very beautiful neighborhood. I'm very proud of the lots that we own, and I'd like to see a nice development happen. I think we have an opportunity for that to be a very nice development and to be compatible with the 22,000 cars a day that go by, with the neighborhood behind it, with the noises and the smells and the traffic of...
 the noises and the smells of the traffic and all the things that happen there with no development. So there's a lot of things, it's a very busy road, it's a very nice intersection that helps a lot. So the zoning, the way I understood it, and the city planners helped us to look at that zoning, is that it would help the development to be more attractive from the street side,
 I'll say from the neighborhood side, if it's RO, the buildings are most likely going to be on the fence or near the fence. So whatever offices, and my understanding is restaurants are allowed in RO, they're smaller, but I think that's the way I read the code. So you could have restaurants very near to the fence. You could have offices, you could have all the different things. I think there's even a
 an allowance for animals, you can have animals on there. There's a lot of things that can happen in RO other than the office. And so those things would be pushed to the fence as opposed to pushed to the street and I think in responsible developments, I see things that are done to make
 transitions from a 20,000 plus car to a residence more compatible. Maybe it's trees, maybe it's you guys would know more about it than I do, but there's some things that could occur that I think would make whatever happens in RO or the new zoning as palatable as it can be to the neighborhood, which is my wish. That's what I would like to see happen.
 So, Phillip and I do need to develop the land. We paid the payment since 2008. We mowed the grass since 2008, and you'll see me out there on the mower. So we are ready to move forward. And so, again, I can appreciate the stories and the drama of a greedy developer, but I'm sorry that's not Phillip and I. So thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, could we have a listing of what all can be built in RO? You sure can. Would you like me to provide that, Mayor? What? Would you like me to provide that? No.
 Yes. All right, we can start with RO. The permitted uses include citywide uses by right. That includes the kind of things you'd find in a right of way like utility box. Also includes government facilities, single family dwellings, two family dwellings, limited business which allows non-residential retail restaurants up to about 3,000 square foot depending on the exact use. Most of them are only capped at 2,000 square feet.
 It also allows offices and cluster housing developments. The conditional uses under RO are citywide uses by conditional use permit, utility facilities, cultural and recreational facilities, manufactured home parks, eating places, that's restaurants with no size limitations.
 neighborhood shopping goods, which is larger non-residential retail, home occupations, multi-family dwellings, wireless facilities, clean technology facilities, and small-scale production. Those are the permitted and conditional use permits for RO. And just to touch on something Mr. Parker said, I think he may be confusing the RO with the RA district. There are no agricultural uses allowed in the RO zoning district.
 And so you said restaurants up to any size? Up to 2,000 square feet. By conditional use, you can request a restaurant with no building size limitation, correct? Okay. But that would be a conditional use. It's not allowed by right. I see. But that could- Thank you. If I wanted to buy that land and build a long strip type building all connected and put multiple restaurants in there along with-
 tanning salon and a nail salon and all the other associated things that go to strip malls, I could do that or no? Under RO, it would have to be by conditional use. The building size for retail uses is capped at 2,000 square feet. So the restaurant would have to be capped at 2,000? Correct. Okay.
 Hi, my name is Tammy Cagle. I live on Jasper Lane, which is part of the Copper Creek subdivision. In 2012, we bought that home because we decided to retire from Dallas and come back to Arkansas. And we specifically, coming from a huge, huge metropolitan, metroplex, four million people, we wanted to be somewhere that, you know, we're 15 minutes from Hugo's, but at the same time it's very much just a residential area.
 And this area is really a phenomenal neighborhood. We were lucky enough in Dallas to live in a cul-de-sac and had a very tight-knit neighborhood. This is a big neighborhood that is very tight-knit. I mean, we have social media together. Somebody's dog gets out, and it's like a three-alarm fire. Okay? We work together as a neighborhood. We specifically bought in this area because we are avid bicyclists and runners.
 and we were so glad when that stoplight got put in because it felt like we were, you know, the little balls and foosball trying to get across before that stoplight went in. So it added so much value to put in the crosswalks and everything, and you will never be in our neighborhood that there's not bicyclists and runners and people out with their dogs and their kids. That's what this neighborhood is. You know, there's a swimming pool, there's tennis courts, there's a park.
 down on Copper Creek. So I, you know, I feel comfortable. I can get out and run in this neighborhood. I can go across to the botanical gardens. So I can't imagine, as it is, I've got across, you know, 265 and I've got across like, I can't imagine cars coming out of the back of a business and I'm trying to get across with my bicycle or I'm running through there with my dog.
 And that's just not the kind of place that we bought into. You know, we came from Dallas. We came to get out of it. And we came here because, you know, friends live down the street.
 And so we like to see this kept as RO because that's what we, you know, when we were looking as we, you know, when we were first looking, my husband was like, what are all these? I said, those are abandoned chicken houses. It's okay. You know, Fayetteville, there's no chicken houses there. Because, you know, being a Dallas guy, he didn't know what these big, long buildings were down, you know, down the street.
 So we have a beautiful neighborhood that people really enjoy living there. I mean, we just, it's a tight-knit group. And we don't want to add a big commercial aspect to that. There are so many places to build in Fayetteville right now. I mean, it's, you know, as the gentleman said, go over there by Academy and McAllister's. That's your kind of uptown kind of places where your young people can go and walk and do things.
 We want the quiet country. My house backs up to the hay field. So what do we do? We watch deers out there. We watch coyotes out there. We even had a mountain lion out there. That's the kind of things in our neighborhood. Okay? It doesn't matter. We prefer not to have that busy business just right there. As the gentleman pointed out, the two businesses just to the north
 I thought they were houses for years because, you know, they're low traffic. I think they're maybe a real estate type firm. Those are okay for this type neighborhood. And looking at the size of our homes, the type of our homes, I'm guessing it's a pretty good tax base that you all see from there. So I'd like you to hear the voice of the people in that area and not just a single developer. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this on this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Well, Justin, do you still wish to leave it on the first reading? I don't mind if we go to the second reading, but I would rather not vote on it tonight. I certainly, if the wishes of the council are to vote on it, then that's the wishes of the council. But we don't have a full council and I've come up with two or three notes that I want to talk to city staff about over the next
 I don't necessarily think it needs to go past that, but I don't know that for sure. But I do know that I'm not really comfortable about voting on it tonight. But I don't care if it goes to the second reading.
 Sarah? I would also like to see this table, if possible, for the very same reasons. And there were a couple of questions I had that I'd like to have more time to a little more thoroughly investigate and research myself. Thank you. Okay. Everybody good? All right. We'll leave it right here. We'll be back in two weeks. All right. Thank you all for coming out. All right. Number seven, well, let's let everyone.
 I like that they're here to talk about marijuana. Yeah, it's just vacation up in the east. And it sounds like in the first part. Oh, that was . I don't know. I haven't heard of it. You can. You know. I mean, he does that.
 I just didn't know that. Yeah, I kind of wondered why they're trying to do it. Well, the math they showed us of the 100-year flood plain in the early 60s was the sun's on the flat, and the flat was much closer to where she described it. The other one looked really narrow. Very difficult for me to believe that's not the flood plain. Yeah, I was really impressed with that. Okay, let's move along to number seven.
 An ordinance to approve vacation 15-5753 property located at southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive to vacate a portion of a drains easement and a portion of a utility easement. I assume that we're going to table this as well. Well, let me go ahead and read it. I'm sorry. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes...
 Whereas the City Council has determined the following inscribed portion of the drainage easement and a portion of the utility easement are not required for corporate purposes. Therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the drainage easement and a portion of the utility easement described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition. Any relocation or damage to utilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developer's expense.
 Okay. Johnson. Thank you, Mayor. As you may notice, this is the exact same property that we just finished speaking about on the southeast corner of Crossover and Hearthstone Drive. This request originally came forth in association with the rezoning. As I mentioned, both the CS and NSG rezonings that were requested have an associated build two zone, which requires the building to be located near the street.
 If you'll notice in the aerial there is a significant, I believe it's a 50 foot wide utility, general utility easement running parallel to Hearthstone Drive. There's also significant drainage easement running along Cross River Road that would prevent the locating of a building in that build two zone.
 I don't know that the applicant or the proprietor would still prefer to vacate these. As far as a development option, I'd let them speak to that. But staff is recommending approval, and they've gotten all their signatures and approvals from utilities and city services. Okay. What questions do we have for Jonathan on this? Alan. Thank you, Mayor. The only question I have is,
 In light of the drainage issues that they were having, do we think it may be wise to keep the drainage easement on the frontage to cross over? Or do you think that that was one of those bizarre situations from the major flooding that we had, but still it could happen again? I can't speak to that necessarily. I do know that the city's transportation department did sign off on it. They're the ones who do maintain our drainage easements. And I also know that any development in the city is subject to our water detention and water quality standards.
 and that any impervious surfaces that are created on a property must be captured on the property and gradually released.
 In that sense, we would not anticipate aggravating the condition, but again, I'm not entirely certain on that. It would probably require input from- Mr. Mayor, it seems like after this major flooding event we had, though it might not be bad to let the engineers maybe take a look at it again and not just immediately go and do it tonight. There's plenty of time. Well, that's what I was thinking.
 Justin, I think you have something else. The only reason I'm bringing it up is I do see if this development does move forward with the botanical gardens being something that all of our schools use quite a bit. Flooding, school children, streets, that makes me a little bit nervous.
 If it is a problem, that's why I just think maybe engineering should take another look. I think we need to be a little cautious because we don't know what we're going to do on that development right now. Mayor, if I could just respond. We are fielding and investigating hundreds of issues from our recent 100-year rain event. And so I don't think it would hurt us to actually wait and see, and we can have our
 flood engineer actually look at this, Alan Pugh, as one of his review topics? Justin, what do you have to say? Well, I was just going to say that's a good reason to wait for a little while longer. My other question, just for the record, is so when you get the sign offs on a piece of property like this, the assumption is made that it will be, or that if a development happens and it's, say, a parking lot.
 that is taken into that decision for to vacate that, correct? So that you anticipate possible as you, I think you did say you don't think it would aggravate it, but is that taking into assumption or consideration that a parking lot might be there? I don't know if that consideration goes into the vacation sign off itself. That does get factored into any development that would come through however. Just making sure, thank you very much. Okay, is everybody good just leaving it here? Okay.
 Let's move on to number eight, resolution to sell five acres of land in the Commerce District to Arcana LLC for $75,000, contention on Arcana LLC receiving a medical marijuana cultivation facility license from the state of Arkansas. Chung. Yes, hi. Good evening. I'm Chung Tan, Director of Economic Development with the Fayetteville Chamber.
 Good evening. The applicant for this item requests that we table it to the next time. The reason being the applicant met with the city staff and there were some revisions made and there were some questions talking about access to the property. And so that got only done like in the afternoon, this afternoon. And so the applicant needs some time to look it through and felt like,
 This will be a rush if we try to push it through this evening. Okay. Don? Mayor, I might add that as a part of those changes, we also identified a high pressure gas line that runs on the perimeter of this parcel that we're dealing with as a part of this transaction. So it is important that this wait for two weeks. Okay. Allen? I'll make a motion to table for two weeks. I have a second.
 Thank you. Adela? Yes, I will second that. All right. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. One announcement. That concludes our business for tonight. What announcements do we have? Okay. I do have a few announcements if I can get this.
 Oh. Mouse to work again. Okay. A couple of items. Our last spring ward cleanup is taking place this Saturday. If I can get it pulled up here. It is Saturday, May 6th from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 um of course one of the sites is our recycling and trash facility on happy hollow road the other is the church of christ here in the central part of the city at 310 west center street we've had several questions as a result of the recent flooding about people's ability to discard
 wet mattresses and things that have happened as a result of property structures flooding. And so this is a good opportunity to get rid of those items in the ward cleanup. Also they can contact the city's recycling and trash center related to bulky waste pickups for yard waste, which can also be a part of your individual address property for that. Still no electronics though, right?
 I don't believe TVs can be brought. Someone asked if they could bring, I guess they flooded a TV. I don't know. Actually, e-waste is accepted at the Happy Hollow location only during the cleanup, so they can come to the city's recycling and trash center and dispose of e-waste there. Thank you. They're allowed one e-waste item per resident, so...
 Second, I was just the city is still seeking entries for the 2017 sustainable landscape competition Just want to remind citizens who might have sustainable landscape Yards or properties to Nominate those entries for consideration for our 2017 awards also want to remind citizens that
 Fayetteville is celebrating the International Compost Awareness Week for our compost facility tour. We're actually having a tour on Saturday, May the 6th at 10 a.m. to tour and show our citizens how we operate our compost center so that they can see what is done with their yard waste, how we turn it into compost.
 Since it is the first Saturday of the month, you can also pick up a load of compost for your gardening as you move into the spring. Or mulch, if you need mulch, as a part of the fees services provided. So those are the announcements for today. Okay. Anybody else? Well, we did turn on the new light on Ruppel Road and MOK today. So that was a big day. That's functional now.
 Tomorrow, I will be leaving for the Congress for New Urbanism in Seattle. I will be there until Saturday. So if you have anything that you need. The President's Office. Secretary Mnuchin Thank you. So I'll be back Saturday. And for those of you that have had any flooding problems, the staff will be here to answer any of those questions.
 I do have a comment about that. Obviously, the county, anytime we have a significant natural disaster event, flood, in our case, ice storms, things of that nature, we do collect information about the cost that the city incurred in case we hit the minimum thresholds for FEMA reimbursement.
 WHILE THE CITY DOESN'T ANTICIPATE THAT OUR OPERATIONS WILL HIT THAT, WE ARE TRYING TO GATHER INFORMATION FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS WHO HAD WATER IN THEIR STRUCTURES SO THAT WE CAN PROVIDE THAT INFORMATION TO THE COUNTIES FOR THEIR TOTAL CONSIDERATION. SO IF CITIZENS RECEIVE WATER IN THEIR PROPERTY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE AS A RESULT OF WATER FLOODING TO STRUCTURES, PLEASE CONTACT THE CITIES.
 the development engineering office and speak with our flood administrator, Alan Pugh, so that we can collect that information and provide it. There's no guarantee there will be any federal assistance, but the first step is getting what the total amount of impact is to see if we hit the threshold to be reimbursed. Male Speaker 1 All right. Well, thank you, counsel, for your patience and good work. Very good work tonight. We're adjourned.