I'd like to call the City Council meeting of May the 1st, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Here. Leger. Ruff. Mead. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Inyon. Here. Petty. Here. Hinnant. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is under reports, our monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be on the first quarter of the year that's ended March. First off, if we look at the general fund, our sales tax is up about 3.5% compared to last year. We were a little soft in February as we discussed at the last agenda session. Remember, when we talked about the pay plan, the goal I'm looking for is like 5% over last year that I would be comfortable with. We're a little short of that right now. However, building permits after a slower start has really picked up. And we look about $100,000 over what the budget was for the first quarter this time. So revenue is holding its own, doing pretty well. If we look at the expense side, we can see that our total budget, 35% of our total budget has been used. Where as if we would do it mathematically, we would expect a 25% commitment. But I want to draw your attention that this is because of the mountain ranch purchase of over $6 million. So that kind of distorts the expenditure percentage at this point in time. Fund balance is still holding as available fund balance around the $5 million mark at this point in time. Of course, that's after the 60-day reserves and other commitments. Look at the street fund. The street fund is essentially flat. Revenue is up maybe 1% for turn back for motor fuel tax, but it's pretty flat to last year. So the street fund is doing OK. Parking. Parking fund is down about 10% parking down in the entertainment system for this year. Now there are fewer shows this year down there. HOWEVER, I EXPECT THAT TO COME BACK. WE'RE STILL IN NO DANGER OF MEETING OUR BOND COVENANTS AS FAR AS COVERAGE IS CONCERNED AND AS FAR AS MEETING BUDGET. BUT PARKING REVENUE IS A LITTLE SOFT AT THIS POINT IN TIME. EXPENDITURES ARE UP A BIT. WE'RE RIGHT NOW LOOKING AT LETTING THE METAL STREET DECK REPAIR. So that's in the mail at this point in time, but parking is doing fine at this point in time. Parks development is up 5% in revenue. Our expenditures are down compared to last year because most of the capital that we have been doing has been done at this point in time. So the parks development fund is doing well. Water and sewer, the revenues are up about 2.3%, which means usage is down a little bit compared to last year because we had a rate increase of 3%, which is built into the rates. We still have a sufficient fund balance there, although we have a lot of capital work to do this year. Recycling trash collection is essentially flat compared to last year. There we have about a $5 million fund balance at this point in time as we're looking, going into a rate study also for trash and recycling. In that study, we're going to look at operations. Operations are at a deficit, but we do have a fund balance at this point in time. We're going to look at a rate study, which is going to project what we're going to need in the area of capital, any increased personnel we may need to take on. So that's occurring at this point in time. Airport revenue is up 20% in gasoline sales compared to last year. That's like fuel, of course, and that's about $120,000 for us. Expenditures are up a bit, and that's essentially because we have to buy more fuel to sell more fuel. So the airport's holding us home at this point in time. So essentially, at the end of the first quarter, we're about where we had expected to be. I'LL BE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS. Recently, there were repercussions from a lightning strike that occurred a couple of months ago that are being felt in our AV system here tonight. You saw it at the last meeting with the delay of switching between the vote cast system and the presentation system software. While that damaged equipment from the lightning strike was immediately evidenced, and replaced at the time of the strike. Voltage spikes that traveled through that system did not immediately present themselves on the equipment and the wiring. And so the signal disruption equipments have recently failed as a sign of that particular item and are in the process of being replaced. So, what that means is you'll still see between an 8 to 16 second delay between the vote cast system and the presentation system tonight. And on the council dais, you may see it between 20 and 30 seconds. It will be fixed by your next meeting. So it's been being worked on, but just wanted you to understand why you're seeing that delay, why the public sees the delay if they're here in the council chambers. And that we are working on fixing that, but it was a result of the storm. Okay. All right. Very good then. Okay. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 17, 2018 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Volvo ECR 14. 5E excavator from Hogan Hall Equipment Company of Springdale, Arkansas, in the amount of $150,641, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Co-operative Purchasing Agreement for Use by the Transportation Services Department. Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Bobcat E42-T4 compact excavator in the amount of $45,902.70, and a Bobcat HB980 hydraulic breaker attachment in the amount of $6,744.20 plus sales taxes from Bobcat Company of West Fargo, North Dakota, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance cooperative purchasing agreement for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number four, resolution authorized the purchase of a 2018 Dodge Ram 1,500 four-wheel drive quad cab from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $22,572 pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $16,058 to appropriate funds for the purchase of tactical body armor vests for the Judicial District Drug Task Force investigators. Number six. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $37,614.14. and to authorize the Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive grant funds. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,000 recognized in an honorarium received by Department of Services Director Garner Stowe from the University of Arkansas to be allocated to the Development Services Travel and Training Budget. Number eight, a resolution... to approve a three-year contract with Civic Plus Incorporated for the purchase of Civic Recreation Management software any amount of $25,875 for the first year and $4,500 for the second year plus sales taxes with an annual price increase of 5% for the third year and beyond and to approve project contingency in the amount of $4,000 each year, the contract is in effect. Number nine. A resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $9,470, recognizing public access television fee revenue to be used for promotional activities and the purchase of minor equipment. Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 18-19 of the authorized contract with Custom Pavement Maintenance and Safety LLC for paint removal and repainting of Drake Field. Any amounts set forth... in the bid documents for the estimated total of $124,300 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $11,670 to authorize acceptance of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics 9010 matching grant in the amount of $128,970 and to approve budget adjustment. And number 11, a resolution to approve the renewal of two special needs assistance program grant agreements with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in a total amount of $228,826 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Adela? I so move. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all business number one An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-6052 for approximately 22.59 acres located at east of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road from RSF 4 residential single family 4-inch acre to NC neighborhood conservation. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Okay. All right. Justin. So moved. John. Second vote. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 17-6052 for approximately 22.59 acres located at east of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Okay. Anything new from the staff? Andrew? Mayor, I don't have any new information for the council. Alright. Council John? Any questions from the council? Anything? Alright. Let's go into public comment. Here's the rules for everybody. Does the applicant have anything to say before we go into public comment? By the way. Yep. Come on up. Sorry, I didn't notice you there. All right, thank you, Mitch Weigel. And I'd just like to remind you that what we're asking for is to rezone from RSF4 to NC, allowing us to build smaller homes on smaller lots. Anything else that would be in addition to that, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, would require an applicant, not us, coming back before this council for a conditional use permit. That's not within our objective. Secondly, we talked a little bit at the last meeting. Someone brought up that we are entertaining an offer from a group. We're in negotiations to purchase some that may be maintained as green space. And we are. Those are ongoing. But regardless of the zoning, should they obtain this property and seek to do that, that will require a conditional use permit. under RSF 4 or neighborhood conservation to get that through. So that's another chance for this to come through. We had some talk last time about slope and hillside, and I asked staff to include a topo map in your presentation so we could look at slope a little bit. Andrew, do you have that? Mayor, do you want me to pull up his slide? Yeah, he sent me a slide. Yeah. Okay. So the area that you can see that I sort of outlined in red has got some slope calculations on it. And my slope from north to south is 6.7%, less than most of our front yards. And our slope from east to west, 4.3%. You know, an engineer will come through when someone comes forth with a building plan or a developer and will present a plan based upon a complete survey a study and they'll determine whether or not the land is buildable every single inch may not Support a house you've got creek beds You've got other areas that they won't build around but that's up to a developer that will come through and present your large-scale development plan that's And certainly, we're not doing that. We're not looking for that. So we've rezoned the whole parcel, knowing that some of it will be built on, some of it won't be built upon. That's not our function. That's not what we're looking to accomplish. Finally, I think that neighborhood compatibility is the other issue. On the one side, we've got a school. We've got the rehab hospital. We've got across the street from the school some duplexes. We've got some institutional in the form of churches. We've got some RSF4 around it. We've got some large single-family estate lots that are around it. And all we're looking to do is add some smaller lots for some smaller homes. Thanks. All right. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Don. Mayor, I don't have a question. So if the council has a question, I do have a comment as soon as that part of the presentation is over. Okay. Any questions? No, any questions? All right. At the last city council meeting, the council asked us to reach out to the Fayetteville Public School District to specifically speak to... ENROLLMENT ITEMS FOR THE SCHOOLS IMPACTED BY THIS REQUEST. AND IN RESPECT FOR OUR GUEST'S TIME, WE COMMITTED TO RECOGNIZE HIM EARLY IN THE MEETING TO GIVE HIS ABILITY TO DO THAT. WE HAVE WITH US DR. JOHN ELL. DR. With us tonight, he is the acting superintendent for the Fayetteville Public Schools, Dr. John L. Coleman, excuse me. Come on, John L., and he is going to speak to you about their demographic study and the school's capacity issue. Good evening, John L. Good evening. Thank you very much for allowing us to come and share with you the demographic study that was done by the district. We did hire Timpton Demographic Company out of South Lake, Texas to come and do this study. It is a 12-year-old company that has a good reputation that we felt that could come in and do a good job in presenting us a projected enrollment for the district within the next 10 years. I would like to say that I'm just going to talk about the 10-year forecast, but the citizens and the council can go to the website to see the entire 42-page report. It's very thorough and we really think that the company did an excellent job presenting information to us. Just the process, the company came in and did the study during the fall of 2017. But until they do a five-year study of a past five-year enrollment, and then they go and look at the history and review proposed existing housing development within the city and within the area surrounding those particular school districts. So therefore once they gather all that information they did their calculation and presented a 10-year forecast to us About what the enrollment is going to look for the next 10 years for each of our schools both elementary and secondary and as you can see the first year A sheet there shows you the 10-year forecast, which addressed the elementary campuses after they did their study and looked at the enrollment. Most schools, about four of the schools were going to be doing very well for the next 10 years without an increase there, as you see, Asbell, Butterfield, and also Leverett. and those schools for the next and also Root, their enrollment is going to be steady. Therefore, we do not have any major concerns with the enrollment surrounding those four schools. But as you can see when we look at Holcomb, even a year from now that we're going to have to look at that and consider to see what we're going to do to address the enrollment. But according to his report, that Holcomb Elementary could enroll more than 700 students, by next fall and more than 800 students by 2020. And then by 2020, three campuses are expected to reach their stated capacity. And as you can see, it does not include Asbell, Butterfield, Levin, and Root. And then schools could enroll more than 4,500 elementary students by 2021. Okay, let's go to the next page dealing with the secondary schools. HERE, AS YOU CAN SEE, ONCE THEY FINISH COMPILING THE INFORMATION, WE SEE THAT MCNARE MIDDLE SCHOOL IS EXPECTED TO ENROLL MORE THAN 815 STUDENTS BY NEXT FALL AND REACH AN ENROLLMENT CAPACITY ABOUT 2022. BUT AS YOU LOOK AT THAT, THOSE TWO YEARS, THEY WILL BE ABOVE CAPACITY. That's about 20 students, so therefore we feel that we can work with those 20 students within that current building. And then by 2024, 2025, and 2025, 2026, you see that the enrollment drops down again. So that's expected in some areas, as we know that enrollment has a tendency to not be as move in and move out, and so therefore we feel that, you know, during those two years that is up, we can address those, but we're going to have to look at it and look at all of those schools in that area. So the only two schools that we will have concerns with the secondary school would be the McNair as well as Alcrete. And then as they stated that the junior high schools and fifth high school have enough capacity to sustain the next 10 years of enrollment growth. So therefore, we really feel good about that particular area with the junior high and the high school. Any questions? So, John L., you feel that Butterfield can handle growth for the next... Yes, according to the report and the findings, yes, for the next 10 years, actually, we will not reach capacity there in that school. Okay. Do we have any questions for John L.? I have one. Yeah. Sorry. Thank you, Dr. Colbert, for being here. Yes, sir. Good to see you. Okay. I know that one of the major concerns of the school district in general is the safety of the students. And there's been a lot of talk about development around this school would cause a potential safety issue because of the increased traffic and things like that. Is that discussed in a formal way at either your level or the school board level when they address – bus routes and the roads that because we have those kids at Butterfield that sometimes unfortunately do have to cross areas and we've already talked about Improving some of those crosswalks, but does that come up as well? And if it does do you take into consideration potential development in an area around any school not just Butterfield. Yes That's an ongoing discussion that we have about safety When we do have new development coming around the different schools, therefore we try to reach out and make sure that they consider having appropriate sidewalks and all so that when the kids are walking to and from school, it's a safe area. And so in this particular case, there's nothing alarming that you've talked about around this particular school that has come up, not just about this particular rezoning, but just the traffic flow in general? No, we have not. Thank you, sir. All right. Any other questions? Mayor, I did want to also make a point for Dr. Colbert. In Rogers, Springdale, Bentonville, we often hear about the growth of the city and when they are developing land. And I think that's a good point. their involvement in the city's land use plans, about whether they stop that development by saying we don't have school capacity, or they handle that development by building additional schools. Could you speak to what Fayetteville's approach is when land is changed from being unused to actual developed land? Well, we really did not either encourage or discourage that because we have faith in the city to make those decisions. And once that is made, then we would act accordingly to address the issues that would come along in order for us to open a new school or deal with the traffic there with the current schools. And then I did also want to make one other point. The question was whether the school district is notified when we have requests before us and all zoning requests that come before the city are sent to the Fayetteville Public School District at the time of application. Yes, we do receive those. Thank you. And thank you so much for being here. Yes, you're welcome. Okay. Let's get in some public comment. Here's the ground rules. Everybody gets one time at the microphone. You have a five minute limit. Unless a council member asks you questions or two by a motion and a second and by a majority vote of the city council, you may be given additional time. Don't engage the city council or the staff or anybody out in the audience. And, folks, I don't want any hand clapping, booing, yelling, carrying on stuff. I want everything to be orderly, no disruptions. Stay on the topic. If I think you're getting off topic, I'm going to ask you to get back on the topic. And if you don't, then I'm going to have to ask you to take your seat. And I'd like for you to introduce yourself and give us your address. And right now, what the topic is, is the rezoning from RSF4 to neighborhood conservation. So who would like to be first? And so, all right. My name is Ryan Billingsley. I live at 3113 Warwick. And about the rezoning, I'd just like to say just a couple of things tonight. I still have just two... main concerns. I think the first concern involves the ecological arguments and the environment and the ideas of the creek beds and the springs and the possible flooding and how the soil will change. And obviously, my attachment to the wildlife, but that's less under our control when it's legal development. But the other concerns, the ecological concerns, are still a big concern for me. I hope we think about that pretty hard still. And my other big concern I still have about the rezoning, I think, is more along the lines of the staying in line with the compatibility to the surrounding neighborhoods. And by that, I mean... It still really is confusing and kind of interesting how we don't know who the developer is or what they want to develop. And last time, we were looking at pictures of expensive houses on small lots, and $300,000 houses, and people that just didn't want to mow their lawn. And now we're talking about small homes, and we talked about maybe it could be a retirement neighborhood. But it's weird that we would zone it before we know. And if Mr. Weigel was... The developer, we could have a completely different conversation, but it just feels a little early to rezone it just to help. It feels like, this might be just my opinion, but it feels like we're rezoning just to help the seller sell the land before we know what it's going to be used for. And so my concern is the compatibility to the neighborhood. Thank you. Well, we always rezone first before we get into it. Before the sale? Before. Usually they... apply for a rezoning. A property owner can do it and have a sale contingent. A property owner can do it before a sale, and a property owner can do it after, or the new owner can do it later. We actually have all of those scenarios. Do we have a sale contingent? I have no idea. I do not know. That would be a question for the applicant. That would be a question for the applicant. I'm sure he will address that or choose not to address it. Thank you for listening tonight. You're very welcome. Okay, who would like to address this? Hello, Emily Brickman, 3183 North Catherine Avenue. Nice to see you all again. I was wondering, Mayor, if maybe we could pull up those slope calculations. Chris, you want to pull those up, or do we have those? We'll take a moment to switch to it. Okay. Okay. So there are several ways that you can determine a percent slope. And you can just take two lines perpendicular to each other, or you could take lines that are perpendicular to the topography. And in those instances it would be coming on this map from the upper right hand corner down to the lower left hand corner and your distance would be just generally the same sort of distance but you would have a variable change in the number of topographic contour lines there. So your percentage would increase. IN THE SLOPE CALCULATION. IN ADDITION, THE CALCULATIONS THERE DO NOT EXTEND ALL THE WAY TO THE END OF THE PROPERTY. THEY ARE JUST ONE LITTLE TRANSECT THERE. THEY'RE NOT EXTENDING ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE INTERSECTION OF ROLLING HILLS AND OLD MISSOURI. SO I WOULD JUST ASK THAT YOU TAKE THAT INTO ACCOUNT WHEN YOU ARE LOOKING AT OR THINKING ABOUT THE SLOPE AND THE TYPOGRAPHY OF THAT The reason why I ask you to keep that in mind is because this is a rare and precious ecosystem as it currently exists. I think that it would be really respectful and honorable to do a, to possibly think about asking for a PZD for this development so that the rare and special ecological and sensitive environments could be further evaluated and just assessed. So, also for the ecology and the site specific issues such as the soil, the drainage, the surface water, and the possible wetlands, the topography. In addition, the safety of the children. We are obviously all wanting to keep our kids safe and the PCD might give us an option to create a buffer zone around the elementary school. It might give us an option to not border the school on all sides by roads. A PCD might give us an option to have some green space adjacent to the elementary school. The reason why I say that is because once again there are some very important and very special aspects to this property, children and the environment. And there have been studies shown that green space is very positive for people's mental outlook, like I mentioned last time, and that green space actually brings in a holistic and increases your quality of life. So I would ask that you take that into account when considering this rezoning application. Like I did mention, the soils of this area are caustic to concrete. They induce surface water runoff. They're clays and silts, so there's not much ability for the soil to actually retain water. It's all going to run off, and that runoff is going to to have the potential if it's not managed correctly to impact our down gradient neighbors. And we have documented in the past recent months since this is all started during rain events, high rain events, that the down gradient neighbors are already impacted by sheet flow, by large velocity events. So I would just ask once again, maybe consider a PZD so that we are protecting our down gradient neighbors from potential flooding events in the future. In addition, we're also going to be having the impact of tree canopy coverage and there is a 5% difference of coverage versus the two different zoning types. And I know Fayetteville as a whole has a goal of retaining and holding on to some tree canopy. I forget the exact number that you would like to have, but the extra 5% would be beneficial for your overall reaching goals for the city. In addition, the tree canopy has great benefits for stormwater, reduction of air pollution benefits and reduces urban heating and island effects and cooling energy. Thank you for this. Justin has a question. I do have a question, Emily, if I could. I very much appreciate your opinion and knowledge on this subject, so I want to ask you, I'm Are you familiar with, is it safe to assume you're familiar with the entire city and the spaces that we have in the city? And the reason I ask that is because I would like your opinion on whether or not this particular space that we're talking about is one of the last remaining of its size that would have the issues that you're mentioning. Because it doesn't seem like that there's a bunch of them left in Fayetteville. And I was just asking your opinion on that. I WOULD AGREE THAT THIS WOULD BE ONE OF THE LAST REMAINING PORTIONS OF FAYETTEVILLE ALONG THE FAYETTEVILLE FAULT WHICH THIS PROPERTY IS LOCATED. THE FAYETTEVILLE FAULT RUNS ALL THROUGH THE CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE. BUT THIS SPECIFIC PROPERTY IN ADDITION TO THE HUNTINGTON NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH I LIVE IN, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE DEVELOPMENT ISSUES THAT RELATE TO THIS. WE CURRENTLY HAVE A. There's a parcel in our neighborhood that has been abandoned because the Fayetteville Fault outcrops right there on the property. You can go up and you can see the folds in the rocks. So there are going to be significant... I would, in my opinion, I think that there could be a potential for significant development issues related to the Fayetteville Fault. And the question we have in front of us is to change from the current zoning that it is to a more possibly dense zoning with more, so is it, what is your opinion on, you If we don't do anything and we leave it as it is, that is less damaging if it's developed RSF4? Is it more damaging if we change it, in your opinion, of the entire environment there? In my opinion, if we develop at a higher percentage with the NC, yes, the environment will be more significantly impacted. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Okay. Thank you. Hello. Hello. Jacqueline Love, Strawberry Drive. I just had just a food for thought. With the school projection, the projection, the capacity, there's about 60 students, room for about 60 students when it hits capacity according to that chart. And I just wanted to point out that Butterfield is in a stable neighborhood. So there isn't any building right now which would show that projection. So the projection would completely change if you build on it at that higher density. Compared to Holcomb, which is in West Fayetteville, which is experiencing tremendous growth, lots of neighborhoods going up, and I believe I was at a planning meeting where they were discussing a new neighborhood, a very large one, right on Ruble. So you're comparing apples and oranges as far as school capacity. Just something that... I heard when he was talking. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, if we could invite Dr. Colbert back, because this is a point that comes up often in their study. Could you speak to whether the study addresses future development of land as part of its? Yes, it does. It did. And it also addresses the Kenan 50-acre site that was proposed. So that was included in the study. As it develops. Yes, as it develops, yes. Yeah, Mayor, when the school district goes through the demographic study, they work with our office. We looked at approval of developments. We looked at potential development sites and those were incorporated into the demographic studies. Okay, that's good to know. All right, who else would like to address this? I'm Mike Burkett, 2798 North Cheryl Avenue. I've examined this piece of property. The slope's not that bad on that piece of property. That piece of property is a seep. The water coming down off the rest of that property comes into that property and it settles. The trees, the bushes, the shrubs, they absorb a lot of that water. It doesn't run off. It doesn't go anywhere. It stays right there. We know what a boondoggle the hog farm is. Okay? There was not a geological study done. Has there been a geological study done on this property? If it's a seep, it's taking all this water from down the slope, and it's going somewhere. Is it going into an underground spring system? If it is, then you develop this piece of property. You put roads, you put sidewalks, you put driveways, you put rooftops. That seep is no longer working. It is not absorbing this water. It is not dispersing this water. The water coming down off the rest of the property there now has nowhere to go. You mentioned the duplexes across from the school. Have any of you driven by those properties and looked at what I saw where they are? We don't want that type of development coming into our neighborhoods. We live in a very nice neighborhood. We have beautiful homes. We pay pretty decent property taxes for our beautiful homes that we have. You come in here and you'll approve higher density. You reduce our property values. I will be one of the first people to go and have my property reassessed. And if my property values go down... MY PROPERTY TAXES GO DOWN. SO THIS IS SOMETHING I REALLY THINK THAT YOU ALL NEED TO CONSIDER. IF YOU BRING IN A HIGHER DENSITY POPULATION, AND IN A LOT OF INSTANCES IN A HIGHER DENSITY POPULATION THAT YOU'RE SPEAKING OF, YOU'RE SPEAKING OF THE LOWER INCOME. MR. PETTY, YOU ASKED AT THE LAST MEETING, WHY WE DON'T WANT A HIGHER DENSITY IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS. You should be well aware with a higher density and a lower income comes higher crime. With higher crime, our property values go down. So therefore go your property tax dollars. And like I said, I will be one of the first people to have my property reassessed and I will pay less property taxes. There again though, this ground is a seep. It is an opportunity for the city of Fayetteville to purchase that property, turn it into a park, put a trail system in there, make it an educational park. This ground does a fantastic service in absorbing the water that comes down from these hills and into that bottom. I would ask any one of you after the next rain, take a post hole digger out there and dig a hole. It's a very simple test. That hole will fill up with water. Now, you put houses on that. You put driveways, sidewalks, rooftops. Where is that water going to go? Thank you for your time. I didn't catch your name. I'm Mike Burkett. Thank you. Uh-huh. Good evening. Leigh Ann Yergin, Piccadilly Lane. I've spoken before the council, before I've spoken before the planning commission, before I've sent numerous letters and emails, so I'm not going to go back through all the information that I've already provided to the council. What I would like to point out, which I think is pretty a blaring thing, is All of the meetings that we've had regarding this property and there's been another petition for rezoning Earlier this summer. There's the extension The owner of this property has not appeared one time before you he's not appeared one time before the Planning Commission Every time that this has come up his representative. Mr. Weigel who's a real estate agent appears currently The owner has 43 acres that are listed total for sale, which includes the proposed zoning, rezoning, for $3.6 million. After the Neighborhood Services General rezoning was approved this summer, that was separately listed for $1.6 million. There are five acres still listed at RSF-4, which they are not seeking to rezone, which are listed, it's listed for $500,000. And the owner of this property who lives adjacent to it has put his own personal house on the market for 1.9 million. So if this is such a great idea, why isn't the owner here speaking for himself? Why is a person who serves to gain a substantial commission through the sale of property and assuming that this is rezoned in C, it will be even higher, have a higher value here. Why should that carry the weight and not the voice of the neighborhood, the people who have been coming here consistently and telling you what they're concerned about, what they think about, what they want? And the only other thing I would ask, Mr. Mayor, is that you do ask the applicant if there is a sale contingent. I think that's something that the neighborhood deserves to know. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. My name is Nicole Clazen, and I live on Locksley Avenue, and I've been before the city council before, of course, but as I said before, rezoning is a serious thing, and it shouldn't be taken lightly, in my opinion. I do not think it should be used as a marketing tool. And also, in my opinion, if or until the road issue is decided, it doesn't make a lot of sense to rezone it. Since we last spoke, there are now 673 homes for sale in Fayetteville. That's an additional 29 homes for sale over the past two weeks. There are still no apartment, condo, townhouse communities that are 100% full. Someone may not like the options available, but it doesn't change. There are still over 1,000 options available to rent or buy. So I'm still struggling to figure out what it is that the number that we are trying to achieve. NC zoning is not appropriate everywhere. There are places like downtown, which is where it originally was intended to be, along 71 Business or College, that makes sense. When you get into the interior neighborhood, it really stops to make sense anymore. THERE'S STILL NO BUYER OR DEVELOPER. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT WILL ACTUALLY GO THERE, WHAT VARIANCES WILL BE ASKED FOR. THERE ARE MORE AND MORE OUT-OF-STATE DEVELOPERS BUYING LAND HERE WITH NO SKIN IN THE GAME. IT IS OF NO CONSEQUENCE TO THEM HOW IT MAY IMPACT A SCHOOL OR A NEIGHBORHOOD. I DO BELIEVE AS WE GROW, THESE REQUESTS ARE BEING MADE. WE MUST KEEP IN MIND THE CITIZENS THAT HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN TO MAKE VEHICLE HOME. WE HAVE QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS REGARDING THE ZONING, ITS POTENTIAL IMPACT. IT HAS NOTHING WHATSOEVER WITH NOT WANTING TO BE WELCOMING. The founder of Canopy lives in our neighborhoods, board member of that organization lives in our neighborhood, there are many signs in our neighborhoods saying that those who choose to move here, you are welcome. We are already a neighborhood diverse in home prices, occupations, and income. We became that way organically, it wasn't forced upon us, it wasn't zoned for us, and nobody had to compel us to do that. Supply and demand is, of course, a basic premise that we all know. However, supply and demand is based on those things being like items with literal no variable. As we know, there are incredible variables in housing. We could build 1,000 homes in Fayetteville, and depending on the land price, type of housing, square footage, etc., you can't predict that they will magically become affordable. Where are all these people going to work and make a wage to afford all the new housing? Are we relying too heavily on Bentonville to provide the jobs? Interest rates are now hovering around 4.5%, with many predicting it could go up to 5%. And that has a tremendous impact on what kind of home a person or family can afford. I said at the last meeting, with neighborhoods, cities that have housing that is more affordable and a bigger bang, house bang for your buck, are we driving more people out of Fayetteville simply because they can get more home for tens and thousands of dollars less? With large leaps and changes in the development pattern, it tends to distort land values, and I think we can see that all over Fayetteville. And it drives up prices on land zone for that leap. To go from four houses per acre up to 10 houses per acre is not an incremental leap. The zoning must make sense for the existing surrounding neighborhoods. We have to look around and ask ourselves, are we creating an incoherent landscape that makes zero sense? As we continue to grow, I do believe that in order to justify rezoning, the property needs to be sold first and the developer can then request a rezone if that is what he or she would like to do. They then need to have a plan to show as to what's going on there. I've heard members of the city say, well, that's expensive for developers to do. I can assure you that our city, our neighborhoods, and our citizens are well worth the cost. There are also some potential changes to the flood zone map. Most of the homes on the west side of the creek along Rolling Hills Drive will see an increase. Also, we already have flooding and serious drainage issues. One tree can remove 26 pounds of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere annually, equaling 11,000 miles of car emissions. One study showed that one acre of tree... It has the ability to remove 13 tons of particles and gases annually. NC only requires 20% canopy, whereas RSF4 requires 25%. I am excited to say that we have created a non-profit group called Friends of Fayetteville Forest. We recognize the environmental uniqueness of the property and the potential for a living outdoor classroom and the very real possibility of being able to connect that property to go from there to Mud Creek and then into the Razorback Greenway. Imagine being able to go from gully park to our new outdoor classroom and a bike path to then go to mud creek and connect to the razorback greenway. I would argue that having that will be something that will be treasured, valued, and applauded for generations more than cutting down the trees and developing it over wood. But of course, that's a complete side issue, but I did want to mention that. I think as we're looking at it, are we rezoning? Why are we rezoning? Because they want to market it so they can get more money because it drives the land value up? Are we rezoning it because we think it will create affordability? Are we rezoning it because we think we need more houses? What is that number? Does it make sense anywhere and everywhere for anything that stands still to rezone it? So I think that those are just really important questions that we need to address as we're moving forward. Any questions? Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hello, my name is Adrienne Covello, and I live at 3140 North Tartan Way in Huntington. SO I'M HERE TO SPEAK OUT AGAINST THIS REZONING. SO I WANT TO START BY POINTING OUT SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED IN THE LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO AREN'T HERE, WHICH IS THAT MR. WEIGEL HAD STATED THAT HE ACTUALLY HAD A BUYER FOR THIS PROPERTY BEING ZONED AT RS4. IT WAS THAT WAY ALREADY. THAT SALE ACTUALLY FELL THROUGH BECAUSE OF THE ROAD ISSUE THAT WE'RE GOING TO DISCUSS LATER ON. HE ALSO MENTIONED THAT THE CITY WAS THE ONE THAT WAS STRONGLY ENCOURAGING HIM TO SEEK THIS REZONING. WE'VE HEARD FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE CITY COUNCIL THAT that they wanted to keep the road there so they can force builders to do what they want. That they can, so what I think we're having here is not an issue of a developer that wants to do a certain thing and the neighborhood objecting. I personally don't think that we are enemies of the the owner of this property. I think what we have is the city that seems to be strong-arming the owner of this property into doing what they want and what they think is the best thing to be built. NOW, WE'VE WATCHED IN OTHER MEETINGS AS THE CITY COUNCIL SEEMS TO BRUSH AWAY WHAT I THINK ARE VERY VALID ARGUMENTS ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT, ABOUT FLOODING, ABOUT DRAINAGE, ABOUT INCREASED TRAFFIC AND JUST THE COMPLETE DESIRE TO MAINTAIN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS A QUIET RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD WITH YARDS. And I've seen it happen with residents of other parts of Fayetteville. Now, I understand that some members of the council or the city would like to live in a more urban area with townhouses and businesses on bottom and basically no parking anywhere. And that's fine. I like to visit those places, and I think it would be appropriate near downtown on 71. But I don't want to live there in a place like that, and I don't think it's appropriate everywhere. Now, again... I don't think that that's something that should be forced on everyone else. And I think if you do end up doing that, then the people who do want to have single family neighborhoods like ours are just going to move farther out, as Nicole mentioned. So I've already mentioned that I don't think that high density zoning is appropriate everywhere. And as people move in almost every city and every state, you'll notice that as far as downtown areas that you'll find single-family homes Because that's what people with families tend to want we want I want a quiet neighborhood I want a yard and I want there to be other families there and my kids to ride their bikes And quite frankly, I'm kind of tired of being made to feel like I'm some sort of snob or elitist Because that's the type of place that I want to live in the last city council meeting on this, Mr. Petty grilled. Let's not get into attacking council members. Okay. Stay on. I'll just say in the last city council meeting, there were a lot of very directed questions to people who were just trying to give public comment. It almost seemed like they were being cross-examined and made to being pushed into a corner to make them feel, say something that wasn't what they truly felt. And I think the City Council always says that it wants people to show up and it wants people to participate and it wants people to comment. And I don't think that's in keeping with what we've seen here. So finally, I guess I just want to point out that, you know, the city belongs to all of us, you know, not just the City Council members who are trying to, what I think, direct this building, but it belongs to us too. AND OUR OPINIONS AND CONCERNS MATTER. IT MATTERS THAT WE WANT TO LIVE IN A DIFFERENT WAY. I THINK THERE'S ROOM IN THE CITY FOR ALL OF US. I THINK THERE'S ROOM FOR NEIGHBORHOODS THAT HAVE YARDS. I THINK THERE'S ROOM FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT TO HAVE HIGHER DENSITY HOUSING AND PEOPLE WHO WANT SOME COMMERCIAL USE MIXED IN. BUT I DON'T THINK THAT'S WHAT WE'VE BEEN SEEING HERE. And I think that we can come up with a way to build diverse communities and to create affordable housing. But I don't think we're going to do it by just rubber stamping every NC zoning app that comes before the city council. And it seems like that's what's been happening. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Anyone? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Who wants to start? Okay. Okay. Nobody wants to start. Well, let's see what I can... All right, Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. No one else is volunteering eagerly. I don't know that I'm eager, but I'll do it. I don't think many people have a lot of faith in the regulations that we have in the city, and for good reason. If you look at what was built here over the last half century or so, especially when we get into the 90s or the 2000s, it's pretty obvious that we screwed some things up in some pretty major ways. Even projects that we've constructed recently, Ripple Road for example, when we built that to the tune of more than five million dollars, We had neighbors who were living directly on the street there who were concerned, quite rightly, about the speed of the traffic and how their on-street parking, which they use every day, was going to be impacted and whether or not it would still be safe to use it. And we promised them at the time that traffic would be slow, but we didn't build a street that was slow. I think we know that. I think we're clear-eyed about it. I think it's a fact that we're talking about and that we're reacting to and that we're making meaningful adjustments to, but the fact is I think if we're clear-eyed and we're honest with ourselves and with everybody who lives in the city, you look back over our history over the last few decades and we've made mistakes. So it's easy, I think, and natural to not have any faith in the regulations we have. But I think a closer examination of the legislative agenda that's been implemented in this administration and the administration that came before it has shown diligent and steadfast progress in addressing those issues. In particular, we have new stormwater regulations that we never had before, such as our riparian protection zone, and a whole new flood control manual that requires all new developments – well, no. all new developments except for single family home construction and duplexes to mitigate and plan for and assess and design and construct systems that do not increase flooding that's a new thing just in the last i don't know four or five years six years maybe no neighborhoods in the city except for those that have been built very recently have been subjected to those standards it's the same with streets we have new minimum street standards uh that were adopted just a few years ago and 300 pages of very exciting material that are so much different than the standards that were in place when rolling hills as we see it today was constructed so much more safer so much safer and even still those need to be adjusted a little bit and i think we're clear-eyed in our internal conversations about how they're still weak in certain ways and how they're still strong in certain ways but how we need to still change them and in fact we just completed the long overdue citywide master transportation plan that documented how the what those changes need to look like and over the next year or two you'll see I think an aggressive push to make those minimum standards even safer. All that's to say I think it's very natural and even justified and defensible for anybody who doesn't follow this very very closely to conclude that we don't really protect against some of the concerns that have been mentioned. But I have faith that we do now and that we're getting better at it and that we take it seriously. I don't know how much my word is worth on that front, but I will stand by that any time I'm asked because I'm in those conversations every day. I say all that because, for better or worse, we are required to – consider rezonings at a planning level rather than at a detailed level. We don't have construction documents to review or stormwater details. We have development regulations that we will enforce at the time that a construction proposal comes in. So for better or for worse, that's the system we operate in. I'm not making claims one way or another whether that's better or worse. I'm just trying to lay a foundation for what I'm about to say. I don't know how the rest of the council feels, but I don't feel like we're hearing new information. I don't feel like there's a lot of new information that could be said about this. I don't feel like I'm ready to vote. I don't like NC zoning for this parcel, but that's because I'm not sure NC is sufficient for the challenges our city is facing. I'm prepared to support it because I think it is much better than the RSF4 that is there today. In the vacuum of RSF4 that we have today and the NC that's proposed, I think NC is the clear winner. I think it's in a very raw way, it is better for our city. I don't care, I could not care less how it affects the developer and their sale or aspirational sale. I could not care less about that because I think that it's better for our city. And that's the metric that I have to use to make my decisions is whether or not I think a proposal is better. There's been some talk that, you know, maybe we're wagging the dog or these things all feed into each other and it's circling. We're eating our own tail or whatever it is. And, yeah, the answer to that is yes. This is according to the plan, in my opinion, a plan that has been very effective. very deeply criticized, forged, created in the court of public opinion over at least the past decade since we got serious about planning. So yes, they do all go together. I don't think that's wrong. I think that's the right way to do it. I think they should all go together. None of these decisions should be made in a vacuum. And I think this is what it comes down to me about in terms of compatibility. And I think lots of times compatibility is used as a kind of word that is shorthand for we want buildings that look like the buildings we already have. And that's okay, they're great buildings. But I don't think there's anything that's fundamentally wrong with buildings that are a little different. I don't think all duplexes are bad. I might end up in a situation someday where I have to live in one and I hope it's a good one. When we look at the whole spread of zoning options that we have, RSF4 is kind of the least intense except for some agricultural uses. It's way way less intense than what we've got and we've got stuff way at the top that allows buildings taller than 10 stories and there's a whole spectrum in between and In this whole spectrum, right above RSF4 is NC. It's just one step up. And so I don't think it's incompatible at all. And I don't think NC even allows the kinds of neighborhoods that people think I might want to force on everybody. I really think people should have the option to live in a bunch of different places. And we have too few options today. And then see just that one more step. It just means single-family houses that are a little smaller that also have yards It's almost identical to what's already there. That's just a little smaller. So to me it seems very very safe But I think here's the bigger point for me that we're not talking about, that's the elephant in the room, that we're afraid to talk about. And it's not about classism or any kind of discriminatory impact. I do think those are conversations we need to have. I don't think anything that might be coming out is intentional or born out of elitism or anything like that. I think it's much more benign. But the elephant in the room, I think, goes to almost our very survival. And there's this implication that our way of life has to change, a way of life that we really love. I grew up on a dead-end street. I live in a single-family house today. I've got nothing against these things. And I've loved my childhood, a very fortunate childhood. And I love the lifestyle that I have now in the single-family house with the yard that I live in, that my kids play in. But I think that there is this threat from things like climate change or the boom and bust cycle in our economy that proves that old school neighborhoods, the kinds that have a main street at their edge or in their center, the kinds that include single family houses alongside Sesame Street townhomes, is a more resilient way of life for our communities. Not for everybody, not that everyone has to live in a place like that, but that on balance, more of our communities should be made of that kind of thing. Right now we have a community that's 80% or so single-family restricted, and that calculation should probably be reversed. Right? when we talk about these big elephant in the room challenges. And so I think it's very natural to have this fear that even just this one more step up in intensity means incredible and really threatening changes to the way we live. But I don't think that's actually the case with this proposal, even though that fear might be very natural and even legitimate. I don't think that's the case with this because of our development standards and because of the whole spectrum of zoning changes. This is just literally the one step up. We talk about vacancies and how many units are available. You know, if there are 700 homes on the market today, that is a vacancy of about 3% or 4% in single-family units. Equilibrium, according to most economists, is 5%. Which means we're undersupplied in single family houses. One of the few regions in the country that's undersupplied in single family houses. And we're undersupplied in single family houses because we're growing. Which most regions aren't growing. When it comes to one bedroom apartments, we've got less than 1% vacancy. That's apartments. I'm not saying apartments are necessary here. I'm just saying citywide we've got less than 1% vacancy of apartments. That's one bedroom apartments. We've got less than about 1%, a little bit more than 1% vacancy in two bedroom apartments. Okay. So there's a real mismatch in supply and demand across the city. That's real. And supply and demand is a real thing. And this is, to me, it's very simple. Housing supply is important. I don't think that rezoning this makes a magic affordable neighborhood. I think that housing supply is regional and every unit across the region, Benton County, Washington County matters. And this is very simple. I mean people who are moving here in general are more well off than we are on average. And so locals are getting priced out because when new people move here, they have the means to out-compete people who have been here for a while. And that trickles down. And so people that are in the least expensive housing today, when their prices go up because it trickles down, then they end up moving to Elkins or Goshen or wherever else they can afford anything. So I do think it's all connected, even though this isn't going to have a direct impact. And supply and demand, if you are under supplied relative to demand, the price comes down to match. And if you are over supplied relative to demand, the The price adjusts that way. And what I'm worried about is we're growing so fast and we're not building enough houses that we're never going to catch up. And prices are just going to keep going and keep going. And we're going to have this runaway challenge that we can never catch up to. That's not the only thing I'm considering, but it is something that I think is real. When we talk about walkability, when we talk about housing supply, it's really easy to dismiss these things as some kind of personal agenda or some kind of culture war or just some kind of planning vocabulary that we use to be obtuse about what we're doing, but they're actually very, very, very meaningful to these big, huge challenges that we're going to be dealing with for the next century. And we've all got to come together on this. in my opinion, as hard as it is. This conversation about this neighborhood is one of many microcosms about this housing challenge and this transportation challenge that we're going to deal with. We're going to see this over and over and over again in every part of the city and every other city in the region is going to see it too. And every other region that's grown like this in the country is in with the exact same thing. Here's why I believe this. Here's my punchline. You go back even 60 years, and certainly any time farther than that, neighborhoods were never built like what we see today. It's a new experiment. Every neighborhood that is older than about 1950-ish, 1960-ish, had a mix of all these kinds of housing. They didn't outlaw single-family housing. They didn't outlaw townhomes or Main Street buildings either. It was all allowed. And what that meant was that those kinds of neighborhoods were more resilient to these kinds of changes. It's a very modern experiment, what we've done with our cities, and it's proving to have some really negative outcomes. So, you know, I think it's really natural to fear these things. Thank you. especially whenever it gets out of this level that might even be at the survival level that we don't want to talk about. But it's very serious and it's these kinds of conversations where the solutions or the challenges are. But all that's to say, I'm ready to support it because it's just one more step up on that zoning spectrum. I really don't think it has the kinds of impacts that are being feared. And I think that Not even in consideration of anything to do with the owner or their goals with it, I think that this is the right move for the city. Okay. Justin. Well, I appreciate Council Member Petty's views, as I usually do. We may disagree sometimes, but most of what he says is fact-based, and I appreciate that, Matthew, that you base everything on that. And a lot of his points are very, very clear. correct and and I do agree with them that we are better now than we were I can only speak to seven years ago but We are better now on how we build things and how we are a bit restrictive, but it's a good thing. And I do think neighborhoods are being built different. And I do think that we're getting better all the time. And it's not just this administration, but it's the staff and everybody involved are trying to think differently. I'm a little bit worried about our planning commission and some of the things that they're basing their judgments on lately, but that's not really for here or there. I do think there's some legitimate fears by this neighborhood. I think that they're worried about if this gets rezoned. We've heard conditional uses. We've heard some other things. I can understand why the fear is there, that this is just the beginning of something that they don't want. I'm not sure. I would be willing to bet if you could just – guarantee a one step up as Matthew mentioned and it would that was all it was going to be and it was just going to be smaller houses with smaller yards I would bet most people would be fairly happy with that but there's a fear there that there will be other things brought in later it'll be easier to push through there's that's just a fear that the neighbors have have addressed and I think there's that's just a fear and a distrust and I and I understand it completely One of the things that I've dealt with on this over and over and over is I'm always mentioning the need for improvements. at places like Old Wire and Old Missouri, at Rolling Hills and Old Missouri, the crosswalk situation, the safety situation that the kids have to deal with on those streets. We talk about the sidewalk improvements that are needed. We're talking about maybe traffic calming efforts on Rolling Hills. There's all these different things that we keep talking about that need to be done, and I do think they will get done in time, but I keep going back to... is it right to wait for those improvements to happen before you make a more dense area along those already problematic spots or are we holding ourselves back by saying you have to do those improvements before you do that? I'm struggling with that a little bit because we keep coming back and agreeing that there's some places right there that need help from a traffic issue standpoint and Any more dense zoning than is already approved for that site will most certainly add to the problem. It's already rezoned to what I think is a sellable zoning. And East Fayetteville... is growing just like the entire city is growing. But East Fayetteville is growing for several reasons, one of which is the school system. I work with people in Bentonville who move here from Boston or Chicago or Los Angeles or whatever, and they put their kids in Butterfield or Vandergrift. Vandergrift has won their second presidential Blue Ribbon Award, which is at the top percentage of the country in elementary schools, public or private. And I had a guy tell me, I pay $2,000 a month for a private school outside of Boston. Vandergrift's a better school. Butterfield's a better school. Root's a better school. And so these people are shocked at the quality of education that we have. And here's a place right next to a school of that quality and for the same reasons that all these neighborhood people are here talking about how much they love their area, people want to move to that. They want to be a part of that. So we're in a weird spot here. And this is one of these that I agree in one sense with what Matthew just said is that we're not talking about a huge step up. But I also agree that it's already zoned RSF4, and I don't know that we're accomplishing enough to make that change by making this change now when we have a lot of other things to address in that area. And it does feel like we're forcing it a little bit. It really doesn't have anything to do with the developer or owner either. I don't care how much money they want to make. It's a free country. They can do whatever they want. They can price it at $100 million. They can price it at nothing. It doesn't matter. What matters is we need to put our efforts into making sure that whatever goes in there, we address the issues that have been brought up by this neighborhood group and others around Ward 3. We've got another one coming up that addresses the growth and the patterns and the traffic and all that. And they're very legitimate. And so when I think about the improvements that are needed, I think about the environmental concerns, which I don't think have been addressed enough in this situation. The more I hear it, the more concerned I am about blazing through an area of town that we don't have a whole lot of those left. I understand development, and I am very pro-business, as most of you know. But I'm also pro-marketplace, and I think that the market will take care of what we have there in due time. I do think there's a compatibility issue with putting a lot more right there in the current environment that that part of the city is in. And I think that traffic and safety are parts of that. And the mayor has said publicly we're going to address a lot of those issues when we can. Being on the Transportation Committee, I can tell you it's not nearly as easy as just saying, let's just fix that intersection. Because I thought it was several years ago when I showed up wide-eyed and and full of whatever It now becomes so much more At the federal level I can't even imagine and I do understand why they gridlock all the time because there's only so much money coming in and there's only so many things you can do with it and we've got so many pressing issues and But when I think about forcing, this feels a little forced to me, this rezoning change. And it's already zoned at a place where I don't think it's bad. So I do agree with some people that have stepped up and said, maybe if someone comes with a plan or if somebody has a serious idea in mind that that helps with this idea of rezoning. And I know we don't rezone to projects, but that is a reality. And right now, I don't really see much in the way of that. So I could lean on either side of this. It's not the end of the world either way, I don't think. It's not going to tremendously damage things. But at the end of the day, I just feel more comfortable leaving it the way it is and letting some other factors take place first, as well as I do believe that if the price is right and the market keeps doing – what I see, and I do also see a bubble blowing up, so I don't know when it's going to pop, but at some point, somebody's going to see the value in that, whether it's RSA 4 or trying to make it something else, and we'll develop it, and they'll develop it the way we all, I think, will be happy with. And so I would rather leave it the way it is. I'm fine with voting on it tonight or taking it to third. That part doesn't matter to me. We've heard the same things. I don't know that we'll hear anything different in two weeks, but that's my opinion on it. I just... I'M REAL CLOSE ON THIS ONE, BUT I JUST DON'T SEE A REASON TO, IT FEELS A LITTLE FORCED. THANK YOU, MAYOR. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. I TALKED A COUPLE WEEKS AGO ABOUT MY VIEW ON THE LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF RSF4 AS FAR AS LEAVING IT THERE GOES. of feedback, lots of emails, lots of public comment. I just want to highlight just three short bits of feedback that you may have missed in all of your emails. Dr. Richard Podinsky said that he objects to the density, was concerned about another 500 to 600 cars on Catherine and Oak Bailey Drive. Bill Adair said that there was an immediate problem, that there was afraid this would cause considerable danger to children walking along the roads with increased traffic. And Wayne Jones said that, he actually suggested a street be built immediately out to Old Missouri Road because of the problems that are already there. Explained that the developer is talking about taking traffic from Catherine and Oak Bailey through here and said that this would be adding a considerable amount of traffic, increasing the danger to children. You may have missed these in your email because these are from the minutes of the January 9th, 1978 city council meeting when the Huntington planned unit development was on the agenda. They sound very familiar to what we're hearing tonight. And I don't share this little throwback Tuesday to shame anyone. about your concerns for new development. That's not my intent. I just want to make sure that we put this into perspective, that what we fear today may actually someday become a neighborhood that people are real proud of. It may be something that they defend as their home pretty fiercely. The hunting development passed unanimously that night, and I think that we've probably got some folks here that are glad that it did. We may find that adding another option to our housing toolkit here is something we can be proud of in, again, 30 or 40 years. Okay. Sarah, go ahead. Okay. I'm probably going to ramble on a little bit here, so y'all will just have to bear with me. You know, I live in a neighborhood that is very similar probably to Rolling Hills, maybe a little less dense than Rolling Hills. It's an older neighborhood, and it's on the side of Mount Sequoia. And there's two seats in my backyard, and how they got my house in between those two without getting it on top of one of them, I don't know, because there's no water in my house. But there's two little springs that come up on either side of it, so it's always kind of soggy back there. So I understand about drainage. We have drainage issues where I live. And we have a lot of green space around where I live, too. But, you know, one of the things that I think is left out of the equation when you talk about the soils eroding concrete and everything, you know, and trouble with houses that are built in Huntington already having foundation issues, is that those houses were built in, what, the 80s? And that's kind of leaving out of the equation that the methods we do, our planning, our codes, our construction methods, and our construction products have also improved since that time, since Huntington was built. So we're not using the same products probably that we would have used in exactly the same way that we would have used when Huntington was built. So I kind of, you know, I'm not so sure about how to consider the soil eroding concrete over there. I also, you know, just kind of looking at, it's always easy to come up and talk about how many houses are for sale or how many spaces are available right now. And that's not really... I mean, we're talking about all the houses in Fayetteville, every single house in Fayetteville. You know, Nicole mentioned 673 homes for sale and 29 new ones. Well, we're in the market right now. This is the time when new homes are coming on the market. And you're comparing everything, every home on the market to every other home. Some of those homes are 500,000. Very few of them are under 200,000, though. Okay. But, you know, so I don't really think that's a valid comparison to say, look, we already have all these homes on the market, so we don't need any more homes. I think that's a little short-sighted there. You know, another thing is, thinking about the comments, you know, the last deal fell through because the road was, you know, the Master Street plan was there. I don't know why the last deal fell through. Deals fall through for all sorts of reasons. And, you know, we always talk about having a real estate agent will talk about having a property sold, but I never say that until I actually have the check in my hand. It's not closed until we're at the table and the money's, you know, changes hands. So I don't use those terms. I always say, well, I've got one under contract. You know, this area here is really... Despite my negative comments just now, this area is a very unique area. And it is, you know, it's this wonderful little pocket of land right in the middle of town, which makes it, I think, desirable for people to live there. But it also gives me some pause when I think about how I'm going to vote on this. And I've been back and forth in my mind about what's the right thing to do. Down the street from where I live is where the Mission, I can't think of what the name of it now is, but the subdivision on Mission across from Westwood Garden Center. That used to be Ruskin Heights, Mission Heights now. That's a couple of blocks from where I live. And I know when that went in, I knew that would maybe make some changes in my neighborhood. It could increase the traffic on my streets. It could, you know, maybe there were some, I'm uphill from it, so it didn't cause me any drainage problems. But, you know, there were some problems with water running down Mission Boulevard, but they got that corrected. I don't really see a big change in how it affects my life, though, now. I was concerned about it at first. So I don't know exactly that the Gen C is the correct way to go, but it's not perfect. It's not a perfect rezoning, but then nothing really is. But my concerns are about the traffic that already is in this area. Many of you say, well, if you just drove down Rolling Hills, I drive down Rolling Hills every single day. I don't live on Rolling Hills, but I'm on Rolling Hills just about every day or Stubblefield or Old Missouri. So I'm in that area a lot. So I know the traffic's bad over there. I know there are kids out there playing. But I think that the traffic issues, when I think about those, that's a big concern to me when I think about rezoning and putting higher density in here. It's not that I don't think that higher density at some point in time is required on this space, but maybe right now I'm considering re-zoning voting against it because of the traffic, because I'd like to see, I understand the concerns of the community and the neighborhood, and I don't think, I mean, just being afraid of something going in, you want to know what, with some certainty, that there's going to be a maintenance of maintaining the green space and the drainage issues will be taken care of and those things. So... I think right now I'm considering voting against this because I would like to know more about something that might be going in there the same as you would. So those are my comments. Okay. Let's see. Sarah. Thank you. Thank you. I keep hearing people saying that we'd like to know more about the proposed or prospective development, but I think it's important that we remember that this is a land use decision. This is not about a particular development. And just like it was inappropriate for us to consider the come and go that wanted to rezone to C2 over on Porter Road, you know, and now that's not becoming a come and go, but we still have a large parcel of land zoned C2. That very well may happen with this, whatever prospective purchaser may buy it and then pass it off to sale, and zoning is forever until we change it. So this isn't about a specific proposal. This is a land use decision. And I hear a lot of concern about density. I was really fortunate to get to have a vacation in the last two weeks and go and walk around Old Town Alexandria, which is near our nation's capital. A lot of the area was built in the 1700s and 1800s. And a lot of that urban fabric is 12 to 24 units per acre. And so I had an opportunity to observe up hand and walk in these neighborhoods and figure out what does this feel like? Is this going to decrease property values? Do I feel less safe? And... It was quite the opposite. It was actually a very lovely place. It was a very walkable place. There was a greater variety of people in the street because there were different types of housing. There was housing that was appropriate for senior citizens, for different family sizes, and for single people, whether they were renting or had made that commitment to buy in the neighborhood. And that diversity of residents, I think, made for a very strong neighborhood. And when you have so many people living close together, it creates really nice neighborhoods for walking, for riding a bike. You've got eyes on the street. There was never any point where I felt unsafe because I knew if I were to yell out, you know, there were six or eight houses that could hear me. It puts eyes on the street. It also creates opportunities for commerce. I don't know if any of you have taken a look at Fiesta Square lately. I drove down there on Black Friday to assess what's the parking situation and it was largely empty. But by putting more density down in that neighborhood, we're restoring a customer base to what we need to revitalize as part of the economic engine of our town, is our 71 business corridor. And by having that density there, that better enables us as a community to afford things like on-street improvements for inclusive mobility so you can feel safe walking or riding a bike and not just feel safe but feel compelled and invited to walk, that it's a pleasant experience to be outside in the neighborhood. Ultimately, I think an up zone to, I mean, it's just neighborhood conservation. I would really actually like to see this be a little denser. I think it will be good for the neighborhood. I think it will be good for the economy. I think it will help us support or build the densities that we need to support public transit, which... you know, we need to do as a community to serve our low-wage workforce, to serve our aging population, and to serve young people who can't, who either aren't old enough to drive or maybe don't have an automobile. So, you know, we're... As a community, our demographics are changing. A lot of our community is aging, and we need different types of housing for different types of people to live in. And I think that this helps us achieve that goal and be a more age-friendly community, a more friendly community, welcoming community for people that don't just live in traditional single-family homes or that single-family household type. So I will definitely be supporting this rezoning proposal. Thank you. Okay. John. Thank you, Mayor. Think about this. Would you like someone coming into your home and telling you what color your carpet has to be or what color your shades have to be? I'm listening. Well, never mind what I'm listening to. And I promise not to ramble on. I have to get my two cents in. I don't like paternalism. I don't like being told what to do as an adult. I expect my children to be told what to do. I expect our school children to be told what to do. But when we reach adulthood, we make decisions for ourselves. And I realize living in a community, you can't always have exactly what you want. If someone wants to put in a junkyard next door to you, our zoning regulations should prevent it. If someone wants to put in a nuclear waste dump, we should prevent that too. When Matthew referenced the elephant in the room, a different idea popped into my head. We've heard all about what the neighborhood wants to do with this property, but we haven't heard much about what the owner wants to do with it. The owner is the one who has the investment at risk. He or she is the one paying the note payments or is foregoing the opportunity cost of his family money, paying the taxes, defending the lawsuits, maintaining the property, all of the disadvantages of ownership of property. And the one advantage of ownership of property is getting to decide what to do with the property. But here we have all these other people trying to tell him or her what to do with their property. So my first inquiry when we're talking about a zoning issue is, what does the owner want to do? And we've already talked about going from zone, you know, this zoning classification to the next upper zoning classification. It's not a real big step. It's very similar. I would defer to the owner because he or she has the risk. Someone suggested tonight that we should maybe make people buy the land and then apply for the zoning change. I don't think we'd see another house built in Fayetteville if that were the case. Why would somebody spend $200,000 or $300,000 on a piece of land and then come before the planning commissioner or our city council and be told, no, you can't build what you want to build? They just lost $300,000 or $400,000 or $3 million or $30 million or $40 million today. That's why we do this zoning ahead of the development phase, where we look and see what's being built. That's the next phase. We're just saying what we think the property would be best used for. As some of my colleagues have already admitted, we don't always guess right. We make some mistakes. We try to do what's best for the city. It's not always what's best for the neighborhood, you understand. We need more east-west streets that take traffic east to west in our city. We have a few, and the Mayor's Box is improving that. This will improve that traffic flow. Will there be more traffic? Probably so. If traffic is that big a deal to you, you really should be living in the country, not a city. Any city you live in is going to have traffic issues. Try to work around those issues. Use the streets when most people aren't using the streets. We do a lot in our regulations that try to achieve a walkable community, take more cars off the streets and make people walk or bicycle. That will help in traffic. But in a growing community, in a good community to live in like we live in here, when a place is a good place to live, word gets out and more people want to be here. And more people are coming. You heard earlier tonight the statistics on our vacancy rates and one-bedroom apartments and single-family housing. We don't have enough supply right now, so prices are going up. When prices go up, people go buy elsewhere, but prices are more moderate, and that doesn't help your property values. I never planned to sell my home. So if my property value goes up, that just means higher taxes. I'd rather see my property values go down and lower taxes. If I was planning to sell, I'd want to see it go up, but I don't plan to sell. Some of you may be in that same shape. You like your neighborhood. I don't think anything we're doing tonight is going to decrease the size of your yard or really detract from your property values. I think it will probably enhance those property values if you want that. All right. I keep going back to that elephant in the room, what does the owner want to do with property? And that's the basis of a capitalistic society. And I realize some of us here probably don't like capitalism. I happen to like it. And people should be free to own property and within reason decide what happens with their property and will disagree as to what is reasonable. I know that. But that's where the argument takes place. And you've done a masterful job of explaining your objections to the development as a neighborhood, but it didn't seem like you really hit the nail on the head, in my mind. There were several objections, but I didn't think any of them were fatal to voting for this zoning change, because I believe the owner has a fundamental right to... to decide what is done with this property. I go back to my original proposition. You probably wouldn't like someone coming into your home and telling you what to do or what colors this has to be, not that we'd go that far with our zoning regulations, but it's a little bit like that, when we're telling an owner, you have to do this, you have to do that. You know, the solution is, the neighborhood should pool its resources and buy the land, do with it as you please. But that's not likely to happen. You know, it's easier to come before a regulatory body like us and say, regulate it the way we want it regulated. Anyway, I'll be supporting the zoning change if you couldn't tell, mainly because the owner wants it. Thank you. Okay. Mark? Even this evening, I've gone back and forth on how I'm going to vote on this, because I've always been a real supporter of neighborhood preservation. And whenever I'm faced with a situation where I can see sound and valid arguments on both sides, I tend to support the neighborhood. There are some things that are of big concern to me, and that is the unique geology of this area. And I'm convinced that we need to have more information. We do have protections offered through our enhanced stormwater management that we have not had in the past. But I don't know if that's enough to look at this and move forward with higher density. On the other hand, whenever I hear that there is some evidence of a conspiracy theory by the city and the city's strong arming and that we're forcing things, that is not true. It is not true. All of us up here are very independent of one another, and we all look at a situation, at least from what I know of everyone up here, independently based on our own values and our own experiences and our own research. and our interaction with a very valuable staff that gives a lot of information. And it takes a great deal of homework, a great deal of investigation, to come up with a valid response in a critical zoning situation. This is a land use decision, and I think that everyone up here is looking at it as a land use decision. The ideal thing, I think, would be to have a PZD, but PZDs are expensive and they're not popular like they were once upon a time here in our city. But that's what I would prefer, as I think you have more information to make a decision on, but it is not always economically feasible for someone to develop a PZD. And we saw a lot of PZDs falter. They did not come to fruition. I think that there is a lot of unfounded fear whenever you look at any change in patterns of migration through a neighborhood, but by going out and looking at the traffic patterns in this area, we have not resolved the traffic patterns to the point that I think that we need to move with a higher density zoning at this point. But that means if... At some point in the future, this comes back and we have a better resolution. I want to be allowed to change my mind without someone saying I'm waffling because that would not be the fact. It would be the fact that I had more information and I was confident that we were handling the concerns that I have at this point. BUT BOTTOM LINE, BECAUSE I AM GOING BACK AND FORTH AND BACK AND FORTH, I AM GOING TO SIDE WITH THE MAJORITY OF THE correspondence that I have received from concerned individuals here in our community. I've always said this, if you want to know the impact of the neighborhood, you ask the neighborhood. It doesn't mean that I agree always philosophically. It doesn't mean that I won't come back and reevaluate the situation in the future. This has been a very tough decision, but at this point with the information that I have received, I will not be voting for the change at this point. So I just wanted to explain it a little bit. And it does come down to the strong voice of those that have been very active in the community with some reasonable concerns. and some that I think were a little far-fetched, but at the same time, everyone has to be respected. So there you go. Okay. Adele? Well, this has been a very interesting debate. Thank you so much for all of you who have come and spent your time, and we value that so very much. So thank you. I will be voting for the zone change. For most of the 45 years I've lived in Fayetteville, I've been hearing we need more east-west connection. And so I'm hoping that we will have that as a result. The only thing that I've heard in this whole discussion that has been very, very positive sad to me is to hear that somebody thinks we've there's some kind of conspiracy going on and that is so the father's thing from what anyone sitting up here wants and our administration is the father's thing from his mind so that's very very disappointing and I'm so sorry and so maybe we'll do something to change your mind I sure hope so Thank you so much for this good discussion. Okay. We are at the second reading. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Make a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Kyle. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Son, would you please call the roll? We have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Matthew. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-6052 for approximately 22.59 acres located east of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, to NC neighborhood conservation. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. I have a couple, three. First of all, when the new zoning came in and staff brought it in, I was not really tremendously supportive of it. I thought it was a little dense for the hillside, and I will tell you why. When I was first on the council in 2001, the very first vote that I made was when they bought a piece of property above the cemetery by where I live, the McDowell Cemetery hillside. to preserve that treaty. The other piece of property that was high on their list that they couldn't decide which way they were going to go was this very hillside. So I was informed that the folks that owned the property at the time, and I don't even know who it was now, said that they would not be developing that piece of property. So therefore, they bought the piece of property over there by where I lived, by my house. When I looked at the map of the flooding issues, there's a big red spot that shows this is a flooding area. My concern was hillside protection. I had some issues with soil. I had some issues. I'm not saying we haven't developed on hillsides in this town. I'm not as concerned about the density as the erosion that the density would cause. and the environmental issues that it would bring because I voted for that area. What was that over there? What's the name of that area we were talking about off of 265? What was the name of that again? Mission Heights. Mission Heights. Well, I first voted that in, and that was a hillside just like this hillside, and they were going to put in all this stuff, and that was before we had the erosion controls we have now. I went ahead and voted for that, and for the next year, I got to watch that hillside completely wash off into that street. Had another development over on Township. They were going to put housing up there. I didn't support that one. I watched that hillside wash off. That passed, and I watched that hillside wash off down the road too. So I've been a little bit edgy about developing on the hillside, and I think the chief of staff would know that the mayor has never been really one to We'll be really keen on hillside development, but I know it happens and it occurs. And you've got to have development or a city will eventually stop growing and it will eventually die like an ingrown plant. I thought Kyle Smith brought up an interesting point. Everything was RSA-4. We'd have to have, I'm trying to remember the quote, 500 houses a year and about 160 acres, and we don't have enough land to do that. So... What we determined, and I've said through, I don't know how many councils, one, I served on one, two, three, four, five. And for the last probably 12 years, we've talked about infill because we cannot continue to sprawl. And we've got to develop, that's why we developed the two growth boundaries. So we've been, and this will not be the first nor the last infill projects you're going to see. I know of at least two, maybe three that's sitting in the wings today. And right now what we're having is an issue between quality of life in neighborhoods and infill. And it's just what's going on right now. It's just the growing pains that we're having. I know that pretty much everybody said how they were going to vote, but I would have preferred a PZD on this piece of property, but that's not going to occur, and it's a straight up or down vote. And from an environmental point of view, I would probably not support it. this development. I do know that the owner and developer has RSF 4 already, which is a bill by right. And we're going to get into the street discussion, which I have a little bit different proposal on that, or I have some different statements on that one. But on this one, that is what I would be looking at if I was to vote tonight. So that is what my position would have been if I had to vote. That way, nobody can say that the mayor skedaddled out there under his responsibility and didn't take a position because that would have been my position. Just so everybody knows. All right. I believe that's about that for that. So without any further ado, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. So that does pass five to three. All right. Very good. All right. Now moving right along to the next exciting topic. Number two, a resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by downgrading Rolling Hills Drive-Skilron Road corridor from principal arterial to collector status and by shifting the alignment of the corridor to connect along Oak Baylea Drive. Andrew. Andrew or Chris? Yeah, I've got this, Mayor. Okay. And Chris here is also here for questions as well. This was discussed last week at our street committee, and the Master Street Plan was unanimously recommended in favor of the proposed amendment. For those council members that weren't at the committee, I do have a presentation to go through what we're proposing tonight. Okay. First, I did want to correct some pieces of information that have been confusing, I think, to members of the public. The first piece of information is that some members of the public had heard that the city was going to widen Rolling Hills, that it was going to be widened to four lanes. That's not correct. The city never had plans to actually have a physical project and widen it. I understand the confusion because the Master Street Plan is shown as an arterial, but the city does not have any plans to widen Rolling Hills. Again, along those lines, the city does not have plans to extend Rolling Hills or build it further to the east and the city does not have currently any bond issue to extend Rolling Hills to the east. That was also some comments we heard from the neighbors. There is an upcoming bond that will be coming up in the next year and at this point I don't believe the city has any plans at all to include the extension of Rolling Hills on that. The other point of clarification I wanted to make is that some members of the public thought that the city was going to be building rolling hills through the Butterfield Elementary campus. And that is not true. As we'll see here, the road goes south of Butterfield. It does go close, but it does not directly abut the campus and it does not go through the campus. As just general background, this is an image showing the city's master street plan. This is one element of the comprehensive land use plan of the city, City Plan 2030. And it's a map showing the long-range vision for the major street networks. It shows the classification of the higher streets, arterials and collectors. It's primarily a planning tool. It's used to guide street connections through developments. It's also used for street improvements when development is happening adjacent to master street plan streets. It may be used for capital planning, but just because something is on the Master Street Plan does not mean that the city has plans or has money to build what's on the Master Street Plan. Again, as background related to the Master Street Plan, as some of the other council members discussed, there has been a longstanding complaint from citizens that there is a lack of east-west connectivity, especially from East Fayetteville to the west. And this has been reflected on our Master Street Plan for a number of years, showing additional street connections east to west and potential to improve and alleviate that condition. Rolling Hills, in particular, has been on the Master Street Plan for about 20 years extending and connecting from College Avenue to Crossover Road. In addition, the corridor, the arterial corridor extends east all the way to Oakland Zion Road. So the corridor that we're looking at tonight is a two and a half mile corridor from College Avenue to Oakland Zion Road. This is, as I mentioned, designated a principal arterial. Staff is proposing to downgrade this section of roadway to a collector. In addition, as part of that, we're proposing to have an offset or a jog and a slight shift in the alignment for the collector street to go down south on Oak Bailey. We feel like the offset is needed to result in traffic calming and slow traffic down. We've had many complaints over the years of speeding traffic along rolling hills because it is such a straight shot and as part of traffic engineering and street design having more turning movements can slow traffic down and that's why we're recommending that. Staff does agree with much of the comment we've heard over the years that more east-west connectivity is needed, and we feel like we do need to leave Collector Street on the Master Street Plan to help address the street connections east to west in Fayetteville. However, we don't feel that it's necessary for Rolling Hills or the connection of Skillen Road all the way out to Oakland's Iron Road. It does not need to be a principal arterial. A two-lane roadway would be fine, in our opinion, for street connection purposes. Here's a photo of the example type of street that a collector would look like. This is what staff's envisioning here when we're thinking about the extension of Rolling Hills. Morning Mist Drive is a collector street that was built fairly recently. It's in the Clyburn Creek subdivision. As you can see here, this is a street that... connects the neighborhood, it doesn't divide the neighborhood and that is also part of why we're proposing to downgrade the roadway because it's something that can be integrated into a neighborhood. It's more pedestrian friendly and it's something that will actually help connections as opposed to having high traffic speeds. The mobility plan that we've just completed talked about the connection, the Rolling Hills extension, and I do want to show a couple of exhibits that came out of the mobility plan. This is an exhibit that shows walking accessibility from schools. And you can see here, you can't really see in here the detail, but around Butterfield you'll see a gray area. And that is showing areas that have no direct connection from residential areas to the school. And the point of this is that we want A street connection will also unlock ability for people to walk to schools. It's not just for cars, and so that's one of the reasons why there will be a benefit. It will be for cars, but it will also be for people walking. It will be for people biking as well. This is another slide from the mobility plan, and you can see the different colors of the streets here. What you're seeing in the teal is the extension of rolling hills, and you see the streets in blue show a decrease in traffic. And so you'll see some streets actually through the Huntington neighborhood, we heard complaints from some neighbors through this process that there's traffic that cuts through, and that is true. If Rolling Hills is actually connected, it would pull some of that traffic off from their neighborhoods and actually onto Rolling Hills. And again, there's complaints about cut-through traffic going through some of the neighborhoods south of here towards Gully Park and again you'll see the segment there is in blue as well as traffic is would be pulled off from there and directed onto Rolling Hills. We've received some comment from neighbors that they would like to remove the Master Street Plan connection of Rolling Hills. They would like to remove connectivity altogether that's shown on the Master Street plan in this area of the city. If this scenario happens, it would result in long-term negative impacts in staff's opinion. The center of this neighborhood and a major destination is Butterfield Elementary School. Removing an east-west street connection would permanently shut off the school from surrounding neighborhoods directly to the east and the south. It would force people to use the existing street system that's there for decades to come to drive to the school. It will force traffic onto the existing roadways, onto Old Wire, onto Old Missouri without another outlet or another way to get to the school. Pedestrian safety and connectivity is an important part of having a well-connected street network. And we have heard from many citizens that feel like this street connection would be unsafe. However, in staff's opinion, removing the street would actually be more unsafe because you will end up focusing more traffic on some other roadways, higher speed traffic. And for the long-term benefit of the transportation system, including cars, pedestrians, and bicyclists, we feel like it would be beneficial from a safety standpoint. Again, showing the image here of an example collector street, this is a street, the collector has more green space than actually a local street, and it actually makes a nice environment to walk in. This type of a street, I think, would encourage more people to walk to Butterfield than currently do so. We've also heard discussion about how it is unsafe to have a collector street or an arterial street near a school or near Butterfield Elementary School. However, if you look at schools around Around the country and in Fayetteville, most schools are actually on larger roadways, and this is because schools need to have good access. And you can see in some of the elementary schools in Fayetteville, Root is on Mission Boulevard, which is a principal arterial. Vandergriff and McNair are on Mission and Township, which are arterial and a collector. Happy Hollow Elementary School is just off of Crossover, which is an arterial. Leverett Elementary is... on Garland and Cleveland, which are an arterial and a collector. Owl Creek Middle School and Elementary School are on the intersection of two principal arterials, Ruppel Road and Persimmon Street. And then again, Holt Middle School is on Ruppel Road with adjacent side access to Morning Mist. And many of these schools are similar to what we recommend, which is improving access and connectivity in the area of school to allow for convenience of residents and neighbors going to and from the school. In particular, I wanted to look at Holt Middle School. I think it is a somewhat similar situation to what may happen near Butterfield if Rolling Hills is extended. This school fronts onto Ruppel Road, which is a principal arterial, and it has secondary access onto Morty Miss Drive. And then if you look at Butterfield Elementary, you can see Rolling Hills. And the extension of Rolling Hills from where it sits, if it goes directly to the east, would be somewhat similar in proximity to what you see over at Holt. And again, the road would not be right through the campus. If you extend it east, there's plenty of room for a tier of development between the road and the school, as you can see here in the pink. In fact, good access and improved access is part of siting a school and what makes a school viable for long-term community benefits. I do want to talk briefly about the benefits of connectivity. The city, well this exhibit here shows a well-connected street network on the left image and a poorly connected street network on the right. And the city of Fayetteville has a long-standing policy and rules related to connectivity to try to improve connectivity. And this is because a poorly connected street network primarily encourages use of automobile over other travel modes. And poor connectivity concentrates traffic on a selected number of streets as opposed to a well-connected network that disperses it in many directions. When you have poor connections, you have to local trips to schools and neighbors and shopping areas, you have to take longer trips or more circuitous routes. Emergency services, school buses, fire trucks, ambulances, along with other delivery trucks, if you have a poorly connected street network, you end up having to drive and navigate longer, more inefficient routes, and you end up forcing more people to drive rather than walk. Again, increased connectivity promotes more transportation choices for the residents in the neighborhoods. So if we're thinking in particular about this area of Fayetteville, the neighbors to the east and the south that are already there and the future neighbors that will be living on this undeveloped property will all have more choices to walk and bicycle if the street connection is maintained. And again, this is just an example of some potential routes walking to school from a house on Oak Bailey. The orange line shows if Rolling Hills is connected, you could have a more direct route, a quicker route to get to the school. If the Rolling Hills is not there from this same house, you would go, if you were walking to the school, you would go north on this blue line, then down Raven Trail and Far Lane. And again, if you were going south, you would have to go south down Oak Bailey and around Old Wire Road and up to the school. And so as you can imagine, if you were living in houses in this particular area, you would be more likely to walk to school if you did actually have a connection for a street there. And we have heard from many residents that they do really enjoy walking to Butterfield and people walk a very long, long distance to get to Raven Trail because there's not a real direct access. And we feel like this would actually help improve the walkability of all the surrounding neighborhoods by adding the street connection. And emergency responders as well, there is science behind this. like street connectivity because it reduces response times. And in particular, the city of Charlotte, North Carolina adopted street neighborhood connectivity standards in 2001. And then in 2008 they actually studied, well, do we have any improvements from an emergency response standpoint? And they actually did. They actually reduced the amount of emergency response times by 30 seconds per incident. So you're actually talking life safety improvements by more street connections and better street connections. One of the main complaints you have about street connections, and the council hears it and staff and the Planning Commission hears it, is about traffic cut through and high speeds. And so when staff was looking at this alternative and the design of the roadway or the basic alignment, that is why we are recommending a distinct jog in the street to cause traffic to slow down and make a decision before instead of just blowing straight through all the way from Crossover. And so this is the existing Master Street plan. Again, you've seen this image. We looked at quite a few different alternatives. I'm just going to show a couple really briefly. Exhibit A, this was not, this is not a recommendation and part of this came from some comments from neighbors at some of the meetings and input we had that this would line up an east-west connection directly with Strawberry Drive and they were concerned that it would cause people to unintentionally cut through there. Again, this would also cause a street to go through undeveloped land and potentially take out a house. Then we looked at option B, which is more of a straight alignment, and we felt like this one, again, would be a higher traffic speed and less neighborhood-friendly and would also have to go through more property and more houses. And then option C is similar to more straight-shot route, and this was – not recommended. So again, this is our recommendation and this was discussed as I mentioned at the street committee, the Planning Commission also recommended in favor of the proposal. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for staff? Anybody? No? Oh, Kyle. The recommendation in addition to removing the portion of Rolling Hills west of Oak Bailey, Changes up Bailey is to be part of the connection is up Bailey already up to the cross section of a collector Street I don't believe so. I believe it's a 28 foot section So they would you know, it is not fully meet the collector section at this point. Okay, thanks Okay, anybody else? Okay. Now we'll take some public comment same rules apply. Let's go through those again Everybody gets one turn at the microphone You have a five minute limit Keep your comments addressed to me. I should have told you that earlier You know the only time you get more time as if a council member asks you questions or by motion and second by the council And the majority of them will allow you to have more minutes to speak They'll engage city council members the public or the staff keep your comments directed to me I don't want any hand clapping Booing hissing carrying on I want no disruptions. I I want you to stay on topic. If you get off topic, I'll get you back on topic. And if you refuse to get back on topic, I'll ask you to take your seat. Let's see. So I would like for you to introduce yourself and tell us where you live. And the topic is the Rolling Hills Drive-Skilloran Road Corridor Master Street Plan Amendment, which is the road across from rolling hills across so across the hill all right who would like to be first hello nicole clason on locksley avenue i'm not going to spend time discussing the downgrade i think everyone's on board with that we know it's dangerously too wide so i'm really hoping that that's accurate uh in regards to the extension i'm going to cover why it should be removed from the master plan altogether I am proud to say that our petition to remove the extension from the master plan is a handful of signatures away from reaching 1,400. 1,400 people signing the petition requesting the removal of the extension should warrant serious consideration of the removal itself. The extension was ill-conceived from the beginning. Study after study shows that widening or extending a road does not help traffic flow, it only creates induced traffic. The statement that other schools have major roads beside it really isn't accurate. There is not one other school with a major road built beside the playground. We all know how far back Vandergriff is. We all know how far back Happy Hollow is. So that really isn't a fair comparison. All those roads are in front of the school, not beside the school, and they're not being built after the school already existed. THE CITY WANTS TO CREATE WALKABILITY. THIS ROAD WILL LIKELY ELIMINATE THE WALKABILITY OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WE HAVE AND HAVE A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON ALL THE CHILDREN THAT WALK TO AND FROM SCHOOL. If they think that someone's going to, a child's going to walk down the roller coaster road that's going to have to be created with the elevation change, I would have some issue with that. The mobility plan presented to you on March 20th states one of its top findings was most traffic flows north to south and existing east to west connections are capable of absorbing all the east to west traffic. The city states there's no money and no plan to build it. The city wants to force a developer to build the road at a cost of $3 to $5 million per mile. No developer is going to take on that cost, plus the additional cost to tackle the incredible elevation changes that that road is going to have. The traffic citation's accident numbers will more than likely go up, even with the narrowing of rolling hills, thereby again eliminating walkability. The road would go through the Bailey's property, so unless some sort of arrangement has already been made, the city would try and force a developer to build the road. The city would then have to use eminent domain to purchase the Bailey property so the road could go through. What would the cost be to the city, and what would the maintenance cost for that road be to the city? The air and noise pollution it would create next to a playground would be incredibly detrimental to the children during recess, outdoor learning time, and after school activities. Rolling Hills and College to College and Millsap is already completely congested. Any 60 to 90 second gain getting to College B of the extension would be immediately lost. Old Wire Road is less than 1600 feet away from Rolling Hills. It makes zero sense to put another road so close to an already existing one that needs to be improved. The city states one of its goals is for people to drive less and want more. It seems the height of hubris to build a road and expect people not to drive it. The owner doesn't want it. Mr. LaTorre has talked about how we're trying to force owners to do things. The owner has said specifically he doesn't want the road. It's keeping him from selling it. The realtor also said he doesn't want the road. Developers' Commitment said we don't want the road. We don't want to pay for the road. There are seven additional east-west connections on the Master Street Plan, so unless those are just planning roads as well, that's an additional seven. We already have five within a three-mile radius. Reasons I have heard for keeping it on the Master Plan, we want to have it on to have leverage to force a developer to build it. I MENTIONED EARLIER THE LAND IS OVER $3.5 MILLION AND EVEN MORE MILLIONS TO BUILD THE EXTENSION. NO ONE IS GOING TO DO THAT. IF THE CITY DOESN'T WANT TO BUILD IT, WHY WOULD A DEVELOPER? PLUS THE CITY WOULD HAVE TO TAKE ON THE COST OF IMMINENT DOMAIN AND THE TOPOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE OF CREATING A SAFE TURN IN AND OUT OF OAK BAILING WIRE. WHAT WILL THE COST OF THAT BE? IS THE CITY PREPARED AND WILLING TO TAKE THAT ON? ANOTHER REASON I'VE HEARD IS SOMEONE LATER COULD JUST ADD IT BACK ON. If this is to be a valid reason, then why as a city council do you approve or deny any ordinance, any zoning, any amendment, any resolution if someone can just change it or redo it later? So that really doesn't ring true as a valid reason to me. If the process to add it back on is similar to the process of taking it off, and I can only hope someone just can't come in one day and the next day the road's automatically back on with no due process, I feel pretty confident in our odds that when another city council member, other city officials come into office, they won't be spending their time and talent trying to put back on a road that never made sense to begin with. And if you have any questions or comments about anything that I said, please, now is the time. I had the answers to some things Ms. Bunch said, and I think a couple other things may have been misinterpreted on the other issues. So any comments or questions before I sit down, that would be great. Any questions? Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Ryan Billingsley. I live at 3113 Warwick. I know that the recommendation from the Planning Commission is for this particular alignment of the extension and downgrade Rolling Hills. and its proposed extension to a collector street. I think it's safe to say everyone agrees collector is better than arterial, but as of right now, it's clearly wrapped up with the assumption that the extension of Rolling Hills will continue to exist in the master plan. My fear is that voting yes on this tonight makes it very unlikely we'll ever come back to the idea of removing the extension from the master plan entirely. That's my desire. I was one of the people that signed, one of the 1,300, 1,400 people that signed the petition asking for it to be removed from the master plan. I was actually very encouraged two weeks ago by something Mr. Weigel said during the last city council meeting. He said they had plans for a neighborhood with quiet rolling city streets and then they ran across this extension on the master plan and they were taken aback. I think that's the appropriate reaction, but it also leaves me feeling good that I think we might have Mr. Latour's support tonight because I know now how much he hates telling owners of their land what to do with their property. If we're interested in connectivity between neighborhoods, assuming the land is developed as a neighborhood, this can be accomplished with quiet neighborhood streets that allow people options to get home, or out of their neighborhood. The biggest concern of many of us is extending rolling hills and encouraging unnecessary cut-through traffic by people who have no need to cut through or drive through our neighborhoods. Old Missouri to Old Wire to cross over is a very functional way to get from rolling hills to cross over. And the time savings would probably be a very modest two minutes, maybe three minutes. Increased traffic through our quiet established neighborhoods is a very legitimate concern for our families and it should not be treated as lightly as it feels like it's been treated up to this point. This is the conversation we're trying to have. Please don't deflect it or change the topic. Please don't try to divert the conversation in a different direction. Please allow me to preempt some possible arguments since this is my only chance to speak and I kind of figured out it's kind of frustrating hearing the closing arguments that kind of latch on to something that isn't really the main concern and then voting that way. Please don't say the conversation we're trying to have is about maintaining control of the developer of what the cut-through would look like. That's not the conversation we're trying to have. We don't want the cut through. If we don't want the cut through, that's a non-argument. We don't need control of what it would look like because it wouldn't exist. Please don't change the subject to that. Please don't say it doesn't matter where we put the road on the master plan. Because I've heard this argument, maybe the developer will ask for a variance to the master plan. So it doesn't matter what the master plan says. This was the most disappointing argument I've heard yet. The master plan implies intent and it absolutely does matter. If we don't want a straight cut through Collector Street that tries to divert traffic into and through the neighborhood, we should take it off the master plan. Maybe we can put how we want the streets to look on the master plan. It's really as simple as that. Please have that conversation with us. Finally, I would consider it a personal favor if we would replace the word need with the word want when addressing anything around this argument. For example, the city of Fayetteville wants Rolling Hills to be a cut-through. I think those semantics are actually very important, and it allows us to have a legitimate conversation without one side falsely claiming that their side is a necessity. A couple months ago, the city held a neighborhood meeting and presented Option D, which they left out tonight. I brought some copies I'd like to share if you've never seen Option D. It involved removing Rolling Hills extension from the master plan. In the event of development, the roads would simply be small neighborhood streets with entrances and exits adjoining their property. This is the type of connectivity that gives people a couple alternate routes to get into and out of their homes in the neighborhoods. This was the overwhelming preference of the crowd in attendance because the alternative is the cut through that encourages unnecessary traffic for people who have absolutely no need to be driving through our neighborhoods because they want to save a few minutes compared to Old Wire or Old Missouri. Then at the Planning Commission meeting, the current alignment was proposed and passed. During this meeting, several commissioners said they preferred option D. They really did. They went so far as to say they preferred it. I'm sure we can go back and look at that conversation. Mr. Chris Brown stepped up and said that the placement of the road does matter. Unfortunately, one of the commissioners stood up and said, it doesn't matter where we put the road in the master plan. My jaw hit the floor. I'm pretty sure that some people got confused. I had a conversation with Mr. Chris Brown afterwards, and he seemed to agree that some of the commissioners were confused. I really would encourage you to please look at option D. Time. Thank you. Time. Thank you. Me again. Jacqueline Lobb, Strawberry Drive. You have option D in front of you, and we at the neighborhood meeting at Rolling Hills Baptist Church, Mayor, you were amazing because it was a very passionate meeting, and he handled himself beautifully. You listened, you took copious notes, and at the end of the meeting, you said that if the neighborhood meeting that the owner can do what he wants with his property. And did everyone understand that? And everyone said, of course we understand that. And then you said... Option D makes the most sense based on what everyone had said. And I left that meeting so excited because you listen to what everybody said, and that is the compromise. You have the connectivity, and it's not going through anything and miss a bunch – was there and I believe Mr. Tenant also was at that meeting and at the end you said we have to listen to the planning commission and see what they say and the planning commission wasn't there and they didn't hear what you said and when I pointed it out to him that they just shook their head and said no but they weren't there they didn't hear what you But these are the straight through road. No, option D. You said that option D made the most sense. I said that's what the neighborhood, that's what you all want. We don't want the cut through, no. Option D was if there's a neighborhood in there, the developer would connect to already existing. I don't mean to debate you, but I do not remember committing to any plan that night. I said, I've summarized what you all wish to have. And I said, that's got to go through the planning commission and that's got to go through the city council. It didn't say I was going to recommend it. I believe you said and I'm forgive me if I'm miscommunicated if I'm misremembering but I believe you said if you don't want the road the neighborhood doesn't want the road and option D is available and it has the connectivity that that's you were leaning towards that well as long as it has the connectivity and option D does on those current roads but that's a it's a red line correct No, I've been less. I'm not looking at the right thing. Can you do you have option D available? Mr. Garner? I don't have it on the table. Mayor, the handout that has been given, the white dotted lines are the local neighborhood street connections, and the red line, while it shows on the map, would be removed, and only the white roads would be on the map. I think that's a problem, because you get cul-de-sacs, and then they come right back down to Rowland Hills. I think we discussed that as well. No. Again, I don't have the map in front of me, but there's maps to the north. There's lines out this way. You had very, very large posters of all the options, and everyone was standing around D. You said if the neighborhood is developed on this land, and whoever buys it can develop it however they wish. But they can connect with roads that are already there and to take out the cut through. And everyone was left there very, very happy with that possibility. And the Planning Commission just did not believe that that occurred, I guess. Because they weren't there. But Ms. Bunch was and Mr. Tenet was and I believe they can corroborate that. Okay. Did you all hear me? I did not hear him commit to option D. The staff did not. Nobody remembers that was there. I heard him say that to kind of compile all your comments and everything, I remember him saying that probably option D was what the neighborhood wanted. Right. I did not hear him say that. No, he definitely said it had to go to the planning commission. Definitely. Definitely said that. But the Planning Commission wasn't listening to you. They weren't there. Oh, okay. Well, okay. But I didn't hear, you know, quite the same way you did. I didn't recall making any kind of commitment. I just summarized what you all wanted and said, then this is going to go to the Planning Commission and the City Council. I didn't say that I was going to support one plan one way or the other. Yeah, Mayor, I could also – I was at that meeting yesterday What I recall the mayor saying was we had a presentation. The staff presented all sorts of different ideas. And at the end of the meeting, the mayor had taken notes of everything, and he repeated everything that he heard the neighbors said. He did not commit to anything. He was just repeating, making sure he understood what the neighbors said. That is what I recall hearing. That's what the other staff recalled hearing. I do not remember the mayor committing to anything at all at that point. Thank you. But you definitely did a fantastic job listening to what people said, and there was such passion, and you really were responsive to that, and I thank you and applaud you for that. Well, you're very welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who would like to address this next? Anyone? Hello, Emily Brickman, Catherine Avenue. If we could just maybe pull up the picture of Morning Miss Drive again. Absolutely. Absolutely. And I will show you here that I have Morning Miss Drive on my phone, your website, the zoning map. And Morning Miss Drive is zoned RSF 4. So, my question to you is, how is it going to look like Morning Miss Drive if it's now in C? Won't we have smaller lots to begin with so our driveways will be smaller? And so then potentially we have the possibility of people parking along the street because they don't have a driveway. And there's not a parking garage that I know of without a permit. So how... I don't think that this picture... I think this picture is deceptive now. So I'd like to at least put that out in the record. I think we have an infrastructure that is currently existing that is lacking in every way, shape, and form. You have all mentioned that. Well, several of you have mentioned that prior. I think that... It's premature to add this connection, to keep it in the Master Street Plan, I THINK THAT WE SHOULD INSTEAD MAYBE HAVE A WAY TO APPLY FOR FIXES TO THE CURRENT INFRASTRUCTURE. IF WE COULD INSTEAD MAKE THAT A PRIORITY INSTEAD OF THE MASTER STREET PLAN EXTENSION OF ROLLING HILLS DRIVE, I THINK THAT OUR COMMUNITY WOULD BE MUCH MORE SATISFIED. AND IN THE LONG TERM, MAYBE FEEL LIKE WE'VE ACCOMPLISHED SOME GOOD FOR OUR NEIGHBORHOOD. So that's another question I have. How do we get some of the things that we would like to see happen in our neighborhood, such as the intersections of Oak Bailey on Old Wire, how do we get that fixed? And then how do we get the intersection of Rolling Hills Drive and, you know, the where we need to crosswalk I know we say we're gonna do these things but it's hard to do these things so how do we get the ball rolling for these I will have something to staff I've already talked to staff we're gonna put a light in down in old Missouri Road and rolling hills and Chris how long would it take us to put that together I met with Brad Anderson with the Transportation Division, and he is working on getting a layout together. We're working on a striping plan. Some of it depends on how long it takes to get some of the equipment in that we don't have, but we're moving as fast as we can. It potentially could be in by the time school starts next year, but no guarantees. Okay. So we're going to do that. We're going to put a site crossing down there for the children to cross. That's great. and we're not going to widen rolling hills. And we'll put some sort of traffic cone in there. I'll let staff come up with whatever traffic cone they think needs to be put in on rolling hills. But old wire, the existing infrastructure along old wire is extremely lacking, and the intersection of old wire and... Is it Old Wire and Rolling Hill? Or Old Wire, Old Missouri. That's a horrible intersection. And the Old Wire and Oak Bailey, turning right into there is a very dangerous action. So I think that there are quite a few things. Besides the crosswalk, we greatly appreciate that. Don't get me wrong. But there's quite a few other things that could be higher on our priority list. Maybe not citywide, but I think that... Such as? Such as? Other things on your list? Maybe on college, getting on to 540 at the intersection at Whole Foods. alleviating some of that back up there would be I'll give you that one I didn't expect I didn't expect to go in there when I put the fly over in but you put the fly over in and you get what you get I understand that's a problem we are looking at that I'm not going to get that done. But I would ask that the downgrade maybe break this up into a couple of different pieces to vote on it, if possible, and approve the downgrade and hold off on the extension. I mean, do we really need to put the extension on there now? Maybe let's first address some of the existing infrastructure problems and see how it goes from there. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, while we wait for the next speaker to get to the podium, just to be clear, I think it's a fair critique that the picture that is showing on the screens of Morning Mist would not be built out from the built environment to look like this because this is an RSF 4 and you would see less lot width, but from the back edge of sidewalk to the through the street section to the other side, it's still the collector width and design regardless of the built environment. So what you have to focus on this picture is not what the housing lining the street is, but the sidewalk, the green space, and the width of the street is the typical collector cross section. Right. Is that correct? Hi, Adrienne Cavello again. I live on Tartan Way. I wanted to start by saying I think the downgrade and the jog are both good things and definitely preferable to what it is now. So I'm definitely in favor of that if it is not removed from the plan altogether. So my preference would be to remove it altogether. But if that is not... not going to happen, then option D, where small neighborhood roads are able to increase connectivity would definitely be preferable. My kids, my younger one walks to school at Butterfield. We already have a very walkable neighborhood right now, and I know that's important to all of us to maintain, but it seems to me like the smaller neighborhood roads would be better for that than just one big road that we know, no matter what we say is going to happen, is going to have people coming and helping. going through there faster. You know, the other... Just a couple of months ago, the city came and repaved FAR, which runs right near Raven Trail. And they did not finish by the time school let out. And the kids didn't know how to walk home because they had construction equipment and construction workers that were turning away the walkers that were trying to get home. That happened just a couple months ago. Parents weren't notified. Kids had no idea what to do. And I don't think, I think that's just an indicator of what can happen if we add this yet another one big major road. So my preference is definitely to let the builder put in smaller neighborhood roads. I agree with Mr. Garner that connectivity is really important, but I think that a series of smaller roads would provide greater connectivity than just one big road that's going to tend to be a high-speed cut-through, in my opinion. Thanks. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Justin? Well, I'll say quickly that some of my logic on voting against the higher density neighborhood does, and certainly in my mind, is an argument for taking it off entirely because, you know, What we've done here is adjusted the plan so that you don't have, I agree with the last person who spoke, you don't really have a straight-on way to get from east to west. So breaking it up, I think, majorly slows down the connectivity and the traffic. It also slows down the reason for even having it. Because when I fight traffic issues, every day going over township or going along Mission to take my son to Woodland, thanks to the school board not having any schools over in the middle school east of North College and one high school in a town growing like we have. But anyway, as I fight route traffic on Mission or as I fight the occasional trash truck on township, or trying to cut through that wonderful intersection that we mentioned at Old Missouri and Old Wire to go down Rolling Hills to get to North College, or to try Joyce to North College, which is an absolute madhouse. There's not a great thing. So it's easier to just say, we need more roads east-west. And we do. Thank you. Goshen is, all you have to do is go out east on 45 and you see the results of the bubble that we have now with just one housing project after another going in. Those are all going to eventually end up having to drive east-west to schools. But I think what we've done here is, in my opinion, prevented this road from ever going through. because why would a future council want to spend the money to connect to 265 when I don't know that it would gain much if you come to three or four stop signs, roundabouts, stoplights. I don't know how you would do it when you got to the top of that hill. So actually, I almost think we've sealed that it'll never happen by doing what we're doing. That being said, should it be taken off completely? I have to have a little bit of faith in the in the city staff and the reason for having a plan in the first place. Just because you have one piece of a plan on a plan doesn't mean you're going to act on it. I mean, my master plan when I was 23 or 24 years old didn't quite turn out the same way. You know, I'm not a lounge singer in Either one of my dreams there on the master plan didn't come to fruition. I don't care. I'm fine with it. But my point is plans do change, and they should change, but you should have them. And I have to trust the full-time staff members of this city and the ones that came before them and the ones that come after them that spend a lot more time looking at things that I do to see that they have a pretty good reason for having a plan. And for me to come along and change it in this particular case, it doesn't make enough sense to me because I think actually what we've done is prevented it from ever happening because the cost of doing it, I don't think i think that outweighs the game that you that you get from a plan that that doesn't really save you much time and i think the mention about getting from joyce to north college is a much better idea if we could improve that uh then it lessens the need for this road and any other but there's not many roads to do there's no way to widening township might be an idea someday but that's going to be a fight too so It's not easy, but I have no problem with downgrading this to a collector, but I said in the transportation meeting, and I believe it was unanimous not to take it off completely, and my comment was there's a reason for a master plan. And I did say if we took it off, somebody else could put it back on, and that is true. But I think that there's probably reasons for taking it off, I understand, but I do think having a plan makes sense for any city. And I also think this road will probably never take place. But anyway, so I'm solidly in favor of the resolution. Okay. Kyle. Mayor, I think I would commend the staff on putting together an option D that sold itself a little too well. It was a really attractive connection of local streets, but unfortunately it's also the only option that we showed that has no guarantee of happening. Okay. So the problem with D is while it looks nice, we don't really know what we're getting with that. So personally, we saw options B and C a little bit earlier. Those would be my preference. because both of them go through a house. As long as there's a house sitting there, that's a pretty good shield from those ever getting built. So, or one or two. So that makes them functionally equivalent to the plan we have in front of us that stops at Oak Bailey. And... I think I want to clarify a little bit when we say placement doesn't matter. It's not that the placement doesn't matter. It's that the placement isn't set in stone. When we see the maps for... for the rezoning out on Mount Comfort later, we're going to see a dotted blue line for the master street plan that doesn't line up with the right of ways for where we're about to build a big street. So I think we know that those change. And when we say placement doesn't matter, it's that the placement isn't completely specific. That said, as attractive as those little gray lines are, planning not to plan just really doesn't seem like the best option here. Yes, looking at this option D, I have a question for Andrew. So let me get my glasses here. Okay, so this option D, do you have the same thing that I have here? Okay, so it shows connecting to far lane, which doesn't really connect all the way through right now, does it? That's correct. All the way into Huntington, it would take out. So Raven Trail would have to be rerouted or made into a sidewalk along Bar Lane here? That's correct. Okay. And the connection that veers off that goes on to Warwick, I think, is that just, I mean, have you seen Warwick? I mean, because it's really narrow and it looks like there's a... there's pro there's a house like that you know like at dead ends and stuff like that so it looks like it's really super super narrow there yeah so yeah option d that's why we didn't show it any further after that meeting because when we talked about it internally as uh city council member smith mentioned you really it's not really realistic i don't think it was this was kind of a brainstorm of what would be the very best case scenario if you had all the connections absolutely However, we didn't feel like it was a little deceptive after because it's probably not going to happen, probably very unlikely. There's some problems that you're pointing out some things. There is right-of-way for work that is stubbed out, and I think they legally could connect into it. But again, if it's – I don't know. I think there are some problems with option D. That's why we didn't even want to really present it to the council. I might also add that the – original discussion from the staff, so Andrew, correct me if I'm not accurate on this, was to show that you could potentially still have connectivity in the neighborhoods who were concerned about traffic being in their neighborhood if the Master Street Plan was road was removed, that that did not mean that we would allow cul-de-sacs or closed connectivity in what would be the newly developed piece of property, that we would require in our development code connection to other streets within it. This was one example of a layout to show that even if you removed the red, you would still have potentially people driving on streets that currently don't have a road connecting to it. not this particular layout. The only reason I bring up option D is because that's what we have. Someone else brought it up and was asking about it. I am in favor of the downgrade, but leaving this on the Master Street Plan. I think it is something that, if it is removed, it might well be put back on at some other point in time, but I also think that we give up some of our leverage the city does with if we remove it About how the street is built and what it looks like and that sort of thing and I much prefer, you know looking at morning mist with the with the wide sidewalk and that that green space between the sidewalk and the street instead of just possibly a little local street that might not have quite as good walkability. And I know you say that this is going to destroy the walkability in the neighborhood, but I think it's actually going to improve it because you'll have a better sidewalk there. And if you live in Huntington, you have a closer route to Butterfield School too. So I am in favor of the downgrade, but leaving it on the Master Street plan. All right. Anybody else? Okay. Matthew? Mayor, I move we pass the resolution. Sarah, a bunch? I'll second that, I guess. Oh, okay. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Well, just to be clear then, this is what passed the Transportation Committee. Yes. I'm sorry. Is that correct? That option. Correct. Passed the Transportation Committee. Thank you. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6122 for approximately 56.02 acres, located southeast and southwest of Rupert Road and Mount Comfort Road from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, RSF 1, residential single family, one unit per acre, and RA, residential agricultural, to CS, community services, and RA, residential agricultural. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved, Mayor. Adela. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6122 for approximately 56 acres located at southeast and southwest of Rufo Road and Mount Comfort Road from residential single family four units per acre, residential single family one unit per acre, and residential agricultural to community services and residential agricultural. Andrew. Mayor, I don't have any additional information on this one. Okay. Okay. Does the council have any questions or anything on this? Kyle, you took it to the... Yeah, thank you for indulging me last time to take that to the neighborhood. We had a good conversation last night about the differences between the C1 and C2 zoning development that we've seen on Weddington and how the community services that's requested here would be different form while allowing for a lot of the same uses. Um... There is still concern primarily around the possibility for all-night businesses that will drive some after-hours traffic and lighting issues, but I think as a whole, we have a group of neighbors that understand that it is time for some appropriate services out there as the roach changes its form. So there was some trepidation but no outright opposition there. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Everybody understand the rules? one turn to mike five minutes keep your comments to me don't engage council member anybody in the public or the staff or anybody uh stay on topic five minute limit one turn it to mike and unless they ask the council asked you questions or by motion and the second and majority of the council they can give you more minutes so who would like to be first name the address please too Okay, no public comment. All right, bring it back to the council. File of comments. We good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? I told you you had a final comment. No. Sorry. Wrong button. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number four. In order to discharge and remove the bill of assurance related to the property described in Exhibit A because such protective language is no longer needed, I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on that one. Adele? I so move. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. No, I'm sorry, the third reading. Second reading. I think it's probably second. Second, sorry. Senator, please call the roll. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. In order to discharge or remove the bill of assurance related to the property described in Exhibit A because such protective language is no longer needed. Okay. Who has that? Well, I drafted it up because we were requested to by the property owner, and I think they probably have a representative here now. Oh, okay, sure. Please introduce yourself. Mr. Mayor, thank you. City Council members, my name is Rick Woods. I'm with Taylor Law Partners. I have Sonia Yates-Hubbard, who is the CEO of Easy Mart Stores, Inc. Our main purpose here is to explain what's going on and entertain any questions that you have. This property, as you can see, is at the corner of Curtis and 15th Street. It's near the industrial park. The city has a shop down there and some other facilities, packaging specialties across the street. Mr. Hanna's old warehouse is across the street to the south and west. This property was deeded by the city of Fayetteville to Greenwood Food Stores in 1982. The deed was not filed until 1984. It was not filed until 1984. On the same date that the deed was prepared, there was a declaration of a bill of assurance filed by the city. It was dated 5-28, the same day as the deed, but filed on June 9th of 82. What I got from reading that was that that property had just been rezoned from RO to C1. Well, service stations are included in that C1 zoning. Eateries, government buildings, service type businesses also go under C1. But interestingly enough, in the bill of assurance, this property is limited to a convenience grocery store with gasoline pumps and a car wash. My client bought this property in 1997 and has operated as an EasyMark store. Recently, EasyMark stores have sold to GPM Investments. GPM Investments is a large operator convenience store throughout the United States, and they're moving west. The financial institution financing this deal is a real estate investment trust. And when the title search was performed as part of this transaction, this bill of assurance showed up. So they have refused to finance this transaction. Their response was it puts an unreasonable restriction and limits the reasonable value of the property. And that's what we're asking you to do is lift that bill of assurance. Having worked for different convenience store operators, I'm a little bit more acutely aware of what's going on. You have cases coming and going with some of these other large operators who come in and buy up smaller operations. They close stores on a whim because they're not profitable. So they want this property to have some flexibility They want to be able to take this property remove the pumps for sure at the state law and sell this property for C1 uses if it's necessary right now. They're committed to operating as a convenience store, so our request is simple We don't want to change anything with respect to the zoning and its intended uses in that area Just we're asking the council to remove that bill of insurance any questions any The question is Sarah. Oh, I'm sorry. You don't have that? All right. Okay. I would like to add, Mayor, if I could. Sure. And I want to thank Kit Williams for trying to do some research for me. We don't know why this restriction is there. And I don't believe Kit could ever figure that out either. So a lot of times the question is why, and I forgot to mention that. We don't know why. Okay. All we know is it's restricting the use of the property. I'm sorry I left that out. Okay. Thank you. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Actually, Mayor, I have one question for the applicant. Did you consider requesting a change of uses to any of our form-based zones, which are more in compliance with our 2030 city plan? No, I mean, my client is trying to sell this facility, and the buyer has just said, we're going to operate it as a convenience store, but the financing company is not going to finance it. So that's the situation we're faced with. They don't want to change the use of the property. The buyer wants to buy the property, but they can't because of the financing company. Okay, thank you. Okay. Thank you. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay. I move that we go to the second reading. We've already done the second. I move we go to the third and final reading. All right. Justin. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sarah, did you have something? I just, well, I'll save my comments for after, for the third reading. Thanks. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to discharge and remove the bill of assurance related to the property described in exhibit A because such protective language is no longer needed. Any final comments from the council? I think that this is a really vital opportunity to have this change from one of our C zoning districts to one of our form-based zoning districts that would allow for more density, better form, and start to create more of a neighborhood atmosphere down in that part of town. So I will not be supporting the removal of the bill of assurance without a – request to rezone it to a form-based zone. I have deep deep objections to our continuances to even allow these C1 zones to exist. I don't think they're good for our community. They're certainly not supportive of our neighborhood or our city plan goals. And if you look at College Avenue, which is predominantly C1 and C2 zoning, I don't think that there's anyone in the city that would think we need more of that type of development in our town. We absolutely do not. So I think this is an opportunity for us to use this as a bargaining chip and hopefully get some better zones. Zoning that would allow for improved development opportunity in that neighborhood. Thank you Would agree with Sarah on that I don't know we don't know why this was put on in 1982, but I'm sure they had a good reason and it may not be an appropriate reason these days But if we're gonna look at changing it, I think we deserve an opportunity to look at the entire use of the property All right Okay. Tony, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Do we count four? Mayor, do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. I think we need to see some more options. Well, I think one thing we might want to do is if Andrew had put the plat of this back up on the board there. The plat of the parcel? As you can see, this is a long triangle. Curtis Avenue is extremely long, and a farm-based zone where you're supposed to be covering the frontage, there is a tremendous amount of frontage in this very long parcel. So I think that that would be a very—and correct me if I'm wrong, Andrew, do we have ways, I guess, somehow to accomplish— covering the frontage in a parcel like this, where it looks like more than half of it is street frontage and very, very narrow areas. It depends on the way it's developed. If it's developed with a convenience store and gas station, they're actually exempt from the percentage requirements, but they still have to have the convenience store actually up at the corner, and the pumps would have to be to the side. So there's a lot more flexibility than when we had some conversations about this exact topic with come and go and Casey's when they were coming through a few years ago. And based on our discussions and working with them, we really did change some of our form-based zones to try to be more conducive to allow for somebody to come in and develop sites like this. That being said, this would be a difficult site if you're not doing, if you have to meet your frontage requirements because as you indicated, it is a long, narrow parcel, and it's not a traditional parcel in the sense of narrow and really deep where you use a limited amount of frontage, like a downtown situation. These are the kinds of situations if, depending on how it was developed, there could be some potential hardships to building out the full frontage because it is a long frontage and some of the back part is very difficult to even build on at all because it's that narrow triangle. Sarah? But Andrew, can you confirm that the Planning Commission does, and the staff do, take into account hardship in determining the development of a parcel? there could be reasonable accommodations made. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. Okay. Well, with the 44 vote, it failed, so it is not being removed. Okay. The next order of business we have is a resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by ATR Properties LLC located at 1946 North College Avenue in the city of Febville, Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment of $11,678. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, Council, David Carver, and the Code Compliance Administrator. This address consists of a single-story, 2,300-square-foot, single-family dwelling and a detached garage. This property has shown obvious signs of vagrant activity, which includes 10 occasions within the past eight years that have required the vacant structure to be secured from forced entry. The interior of the structure is highly concerning from a safety standpoint. A vagrant activity could easily lead to an interior fire. With difficult and highly limited egress from the structure, a fire could lead to loss of life. The deterioration of the interior of the structure constitutes a cost-prohibitive repair. The property owner has been unresponsive as to any intention for abatement. To date, no building permits have been issued or applied for. I'd like to run through some photos with you. So in this first photo, we've got the, you can see the rotten roof trusses, and I've tried to highlight with some red lines, they are kind of thin, sorry about that. You can see the interior is exposed to the elements, there's material there on the left-hand side that was previously used for securing that has been removed by forced entry. Second photo, you can see approximately an eight square foot hole in the roof, the rotten soffit. The interior again has exposed the elements for multiple years. Here you can see the rotten trusses and floor joists have allowed this building to separate from itself on the south side. Moving to the interior, you can again see the hole from the roof that is penetrating to the drop ceiling leading to further interior deterioration. You can see the rotten mold in the drop ceiling and insulation. The supports of the sleepers for the drop ceiling are detached and severely sagging. This could easily lead to a full collapse of the ceiling. My guess is that insulation is highly saturated with water and the insulation, the collapse and the weight of that material can severely injure a person. Again in the interior these floor joists have been exposed from both top and the bottom leading to rot throughout the floor and its support system. Also inside you can see a large amount of combustible material and a fireplace that would easily welcome an interior fire by vagrants or vandals. Again, a severely sagging rotten floor system. Here on the south side you can again see obvious signs of forced entry with the boards that were previously securing this have been removed. And this is the street view that you'd see from College Avenue. Please note the obvious lack of egress due to the boarding, and although this may appear fine or acceptable from a brief glance, the glaring issues which I've highlighted from the rear of the building, the multiple vents of forced entry, the constant exposure of the interior to the elements, this building, like I said, does constitute a cost-prohibitive repair. It is a large safety concern to the public, and again, the staff is recommending the raise and removal of the structure. Thank you. And I'll answer any questions you may have. Okay. What questions do we have today? John. Hang on. I'm sorry, John. Can I do one thing? Is the owner here a representative of the owner? Okay. Very good. Okay. John, go ahead. That would be my question. Have we contacted the owner? What response did we get? We have they've signed for all my notices. They are aware of the situation they have taken action to secure the structure they Have not given any response as to any intentions of raising and removing the structure I did have a brief conversation with one of the representatives from the LLC of the ownership He said you know that they are trying to sell the property they have interested parties and However, this is kind of a hang-up, and it almost seemed that us taking care of this structure was appealing to him, that it would make it more marketable. There were, you know, the liabilities on us and our contractors as far as the demolition and leaving the lot in good shape. So he honestly did not seem to... Objective about the raising removal does he know we're gonna file a lien against his property for the cost of the race I was very clear on that whole situation. We talked about in length that you know that the dollar amount that we have bid this project out So he is aware of all maybe we were the low bid for the raising right well. I mean yeah, we're Okay, thank you. Yes, can I ask you how long have you tried to work with this owner or any representatives I? As far as the securing, the case history goes back easily ten years. I believe the structure has been vacant for at least that time. But like I said, they were getting our notices for the securing. We have not moved to raise and remove this structure until now. So it was a pretty brief conversation, and like I said, he was almost pretty welcoming to the idea, just in my opinion. I see they secured the front but not the back. People could still get in. Well, with those woods, I mean that wooded area behind, those boards pop off weekly. And it was the opinion of your division and the building safety inspector that this is an unsafe structure? It was my determination. Okay. Yes, sir. Just to address that issue, David is now a certified inspector of building raise and removals, just as our building safety official is. It was to reduce the burden so that they could stay focused on new building construction while our code was doing all the work on the front end. So we put him through the same certification processes that they go through to make that determination. I'd also add just to many people in Fayetteville are familiar with this property. It's between... The Formosa Chinese restaurant and the darkroom, it's on an old putt-putt golf course or behind on old putt-putt golf course and there used to be a trailer park behind this property that was removed many years ago. In this commercial corridor, it probably will be a more valuable piece of property with this structure removed. And we are very clear in all communications of a lien of the cost of removal to reimburse the taxpayers for the cost of doing this. Is that bearing masonry or veneer masonry? I believe it's bearing. I believe we do not have legal access to enter the structure unless requested so by the property owner. So it's peeking through windows for most of it. There is a Chamber of Commerce committee focused on North College Avenue that was talking about two years ago about purchasing this piece of property and using that as an anchor for development around Poplar. Were they a part of any conversation with you so far? Just curious. No. Okay, thanks. Okay. I think Matthew may have been hinting at my question too. After we put the bill to remove the structure and make it more appealing to whoever they've got lined up to buy the zoning that's currently on this while we're looking at Redeveloping that corridor the current what's the current zoning on on here? I'll look it up. I'll get back to you You know This is a house that if you're from Fayetteville, you've seen this your whole life, and I really hate to tear it down. It's got such interesting rock work and everything on it. But in this picture, I'm not sure if that's a sidewalk or a trail that has been made to the front of that house there. And I'm thinking, it looks like a trail to me, and why would there be a trail going to a vacant house unless people were going and getting in it all the time? And that's just kind of my take on it. It's like a really dangerous situation with that house, and it's such a shame that it was allowed to deteriorate that way. So that's my two bits. As Dawn had mentioned, the trailer park in the rear of the property was removed several years ago. There was extensive issues with those structures. There was also a smaller... structure back there that the property owner demolished due to similar issues within the last five years. So it's kind of been a domino effect with the vagrant activity. How many acres are in this, including what's behind it? Is it all one piece of property or is it divided into two? I would have to look that up and get back to you. Okay. And I would say I think we need to reserve those sorts of things. Right now, we're only talking about raise and removal. I know that. I mean, I heard some talk about rezoning. We don't need to be looking at rezoning at this point in time. We need to only be looking at raise and removal. Mayor, I did look up the zoning. The front part of the parcel is C2, and it does extend pretty far back into the hillside. It changes to RSF for zoning in the back. But we're deciding that this is an unsafe and dilapidated structure that should be raised and removed. That's the issue before the City Council. Okay. Sarah? I'd also add that this property is sitting on 3.2 acres. Okay. Not that that matters. Sarah? Thank you. I'm having a real hard time with this. I do recognize that the building is in terrible condition. But it really is a spectacular structure in the sense that it has really great masonry detailing. And I just wonder if there's been any opportunity or any exploration of historic preservation tax credits or something that, Because, you know, we've lost so much of our historic context along North College Avenue. And I hate to see us give up on this building in its current state. And, you know, I do know that we need to make sure it's safe. But I think I've long looked at this building and, you know, dreamed of all the things that it could be or things that could go there. And I would like to see, I wish that we had some sort of task force or maybe our historic district board or something that could go and work with the owner and see if there is some opportunity for preservation of this structure. I don't know if it has special historical significance. I'm sure we've got some local experts that could tell us that. But I would like the opportunity, since this is a resolution, to just hold it for two weeks and see what happens. if we could identify some opportunity for preservation before we tear down another landmark structure in our community. OK. Mayor, it's been sitting here for 10 years in this shape, so two weeks isn't going to make a difference. I do want to just remind the council that, again, this is a personal property owned. And so the owner's discretion of what to do, how to pursue those items, we've had numerous discussions with them. Many times these properties that we deal with are out-of-town owners. The last one that you just did was someone from a different location. This is a Fayetteville LLC, and so that's why we have reached out to the ownership. directly to this because it is a local owner. And I just want to make that point because it's someone who's very familiar with the site, the location, the longevity of the property, and the opportunities to discuss with staff, building permit improvements, et cetera, and was invited personally by the phone also to know that the hearing was tonight. Okay. All right. Well, let's take some public comments. Anyone like to address this on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. I don't want that to imply that we're, as staff, we're not supportive of tabling every two weeks. We're supportive of that if you think that will make some difference. We've been waiting 10 years. What's another couple of weeks? I'm Mark. I'm sorry. I would like to move that we table this for two weeks. All right. Adele? I think so. I feel like our staff has spent so much time, many, many, many times, and since it is a local owner, which I think is a very pertinent, very significant thing, I see no reason for making our staff work on it for two more weeks. We've spent enough time on it, I think, so I am not in favor of holding it. It needs to be a second. You're right. Thank you. I thought we were going to get a second, but that's okay. Hang on to those thoughts. Do we have a second? You do. All right. We have a motion and a second, and Nadella has expressed her opinion on that. That's right. Does anybody else have anything? I will say if we don't table it, this will be the first time that I can ever remember one not being tabled, I think. Okay. All right. Senators, please call the roll. French? No. Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. We're going to table it for two weeks. All right. Now moving right along to new business. Does anybody want a break or anything? You need a break, Sondra? Okay. We're going to take a break for about Ten minutes? Okay, ten minutes. Okay, I'm going to call us back to order again. First order of new business is an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6088 for properties located at 525 South School Avenue and 423 Prairie Street to vacate and access easement between the two properties kept. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described access easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates an access easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk Along with a map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit clerk, okay Andrew yes, sir. This property is the mill district It's at the northwest corner of Martin Luther King and South School Avenue as you probably know it's developed with some mixed-use buildings and In 2007, the property was approved for a large-scale development. The project was never built. However, they did go through the process of filing an easement plat, which is required before they get building permits. And as part of the easement plat, they dedicated this small access easement between the Mill District property and Prairie Street across another adjacent property. However, the access easement was really predicated on redeveloping the entire site. And at this point, with the Greenhouse Grill restaurant and the ADA parking that is still there, it really is not functional for the way it has been developed and the way it's existing today. This is a close-up of the survey showing the access easement. The city plan shows this as a city neighborhood area with the potential for a mix of uses. primarily in staff's opinion that the access is not feasible right now until the property redevelops. So we're recommending approval of the vacation, and the Planning Commission also recommended approval. Thank you. Okay. Matthew? Yeah, I recuse as the abutting property owner. Oh, okay. All right, any other comments from the – or questions from the council, I'm sorry. All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Now, I move that we move to the second reading. John. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And in order to approve VAC 18-6088 for properties located at 525 South School Avenue and 423 Prairie Street to vacate and access easement between the two properties. Okay. Adele. I move we move to the third and final reading. Justin. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I have a motion and a second. I'm sorry. Adele and Justin. I'll pay a little closer to my screen. I'm sorry. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 18-6088 for properties located at 525 South School Avenue and 423 Prairie Street to vacate an access easement between the two properties. Any final comments from the council? Justin. Okay. Okay. All right, if there's none, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number two. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6125 for approximately 6.64 acres, located at 4550 North Crossover Road from R.A. Residential Agricultural. to P1 institutional kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A and the legal description, Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional. Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Andrew. So this property is approximately 6.64 acres. It's located northeast of the intersection of Crossover Road and Zion Road. The property is currently zoned residential agricultural, and it contains a single-family house. The eastern portion of the overall parcel is encompassed with a riparian area for a creek adjacent to the east. However, that part of the parcel was intentionally left out of the request. They're intending on leaving that part of the creek in residential agricultural zoning. And as mentioned, the request is to rezone the property to P1 institutional. The applicant has stated the rezoning is needed for a future church at the location. In looking at the land use plan, this is designated as a city neighborhood area which indicates potential for a mix of uses. The creek area of the property is designated as natural area which indicates more preservation and staff recommends that the proposal is in line with the adopted plan. We feel like institutional zoning is an appropriate use in the city neighborhood area, in addition, When you look at the existing land uses in the area, you can see on this exhibit, institutional uses are shown in blue. You can see the subject property highlighted in the white dashed area. Directly to the south is a funeral home, and then to the south of that is the Elks Lodge. Then catty corner across the street is a retirement center. Of course, we're close to Lake Fayetteville and Botanical Gardens and then the Fayetteville Athletic Club. So there are some larger institutions along this portion in this neighborhood. And so we do feel like it would be a compatible and complementary use to the city neighborhood area. This was discussed at the Planning Commission and it was denied by a vote of four to five. And the Planning Commissioners that voted against the P1 proposal, primarily they didn't really discuss that they were against the intensity allowed, but they were really concerned with the form. They were really wanting a form-based zone for buildings that would be close to the street and close to the highway. And in staff's opinion, we certainly understand that and we recommend form-based zones as much as possible where we feel like it's appropriate and necessary. In this case, we do feel like the P1 zoning It does meet the goals of the land use plan and is appropriate to have some flexibility in this particular neighborhood and a part of town, a crossover, where you may not want to have the buildings right at the highway. So with that, we'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here, would they like to say something? The council will take questions for both. Good evening. Blake Jorgensen, Jorgensen Associates. We appreciate y'all taking some time late at night to hear this request. We have John David Lindsay and the prospective pastor for this church here present tonight as well. I want to rehash all the details from Planning Commissioner. I hope you all have heard all those through the agenda session. However, we're all here to try to answer some questions that you all may have. So I'd like to open it up with that. And thanks again for your time. Okay. What questions do we have from the council, either for the staff or for the applicant? Okay. That's green. Okay. Go ahead, sir. Okay. For staff, what form-based zone would be a good fit for this institutional use? Institutional uses are allowed in several of them. It could be in CS, community services, UT, urban thoroughfare. I think several of the downtown zones also allow institutional uses, which fall under use unit 4 by right. Thank you. Okay. I guess this is probably a question for the applicants then. Were there specific challenges with the zones that he just mentioned that caused you to seek institutional instead of one of the farm-based zones? I'll start with the easiest is that the surrounding property owners to the northeast have historically been opposed to zonings that would promote commerce, commercial developments, and whatnot. And we thought the path of least resistance is to simply request a use, a zoning that allowed a church by right to, We could have requested a conditional use permit under the current zoning. We did that with, at the time, it was Culpeper Assisted Living, the one to the south. And then at the time of the occupancy, there was a situation where we couldn't have a sign by right under that. So there are obstacles with requesting a conditional use permit. not just uses by right, but the fact that when we met with staff, it was fairly obvious with that previous diagram that the surrounding uses are by just their institutional by right. And so that was the main goal was to go with staff, go with what's obviously surrounding them, and also we didn't want to – we certainly weren't seeking – to opposition from the surrounding property owners. And I'll just leave it at that. There's other items, but that's the main thing. Okay. Sarah. Yeah. I share the Planning Commission's desire to see this in a four-mace zone. Was it considered to do one of the four-mace zones but then offering a bill of assurance that could reassure the neighborhood that this would not be a commercial use? Because I do think that the proposed use is good. It's really the form that I'm objecting to. We're not supposed to request a bill of assurance. That has to be voluntarily offered by them and not requested by us. So... You probably really shouldn't answer that unless you want to talk to your owner or potential people there. And if they want to offer a bill of assurance, they can, but we're not supposed to be requesting a bill of assurance. All right, well, then I'll just point out that there are tools available to one that could meet all objectives of the differing parties. Do we have any public comment on this? Yeah, I'm John David Lindsay with Lindsay & Associates, and I represented the church on the contract to purchase this property. This property's been on the market for over four years, hasn't been able to sell, it's come down in price. We had met with the adjoining owner, Scott Berna, at Nelson Berna Funeral Home, and had discussions about a joint parking arrangement. The funeral home's not open on Sunday morning. The church has activities on Wednesday night and Sunday morning, predominantly, sometimes Sunday night. So there's a handshake agreement and full support from Scott for this church to go in and for there to be shared parking, which I don't know if y'all have been to a service or a visitation at Nelson Burnett, but when it's full, a person has two choices, either Park at the Elks Lodge and walk across Zion. Park in the yard where the trucks are, the Everett trucks are for sale. Or parallel park on Zion, which is not a good option if any of y'all have done that. This would solve that problem. And I think the configuration of the property being 300 and something feet wide and deep is... gives the seller not as many options. And then secondly, if you go the CS zoning and you push the church, try to push the church right up on the road, then the people are going to have to walk 600 yards to church because the parking is going to be way back in the back. So I've lived here my whole life. I was born at Washington Regional on North Street. in 1971. I've never lived anywhere else. I've never worked anywhere else. I think we have the greatest city in America to live, work, and raise kids as long as you can live without an ocean view. Y'all have done a great job with a lot of the stuff you're trying to accomplish, okay? And Bentonville is the only town that has a surplus in housing. right now. So this was an entertaining night to be here, and I don't envy you, but I would hope that y'all would support this, and I'm doing this for free, okay? I'm not getting paid to do this, and I only tell you that so you know that my motives are pure. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. Who else would like to address this? How are y'all doing tonight? My name is Casey Hannigan. I am the lead pastor. I am the lead pastor of Key Point Church. And a little more than 13 years ago, my wife and I and two children of four and three at the time looked at five different cities in the South. I'm originally from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, so I'm a crazy Cajun boy who eats crawfish. But I was looking for a place that people were moving to. People wanted to live there. And every time I kept coming to Northwest Arkansas, the charm, the draw kept pulling me back. I met a young man by the name of Brian Anderson who was currently getting his master's degree at the U of A because he wanted to coach high school football. He heard me speak and said, hey, if you ever come to Northwest Arkansas, you need to stay with me. He lived in a Lindsay apartment on 8th Street and Martin Luther King Boulevard. Every time I drive up here, I would stay with him. And he had just been married, so he and his wife, Michelle, we would talk all night long about a church that would thrive, which I believe is part of the mission statement of the council here, is for Fayetteville to be a city that thrives. And we're all results wanted. We all, at the end of the day, want results. We want a better community. We want better families. We want better education. We want less crime. We want a safer place to live. And 12 years ago, we launched Key Point Church at Tucker Elementary in Lowell, Arkansas. We met there for three years. We moved to Bentonville Commerce. We remodeled about 25,000 square foot right behind the post office in Bentonville. We secured a location in Springdale, which is currently our second location right there off of Highway 71 behind the two-story Arvest Bank. And we are currently looking to develop a thriving church in Fayetteville. We have loved in our communities. Our desire since day one has always been to help people. We want to help people find a place to belong. We want people to know that they matter. All people matter. Red, white, black, green, short, tall, from whatever socioeconomic background. All people matter. And then thirdly, we have always provided a safe place for people to come and find healing. And since the beginning of our church, our first service, we had over 300 people. I moved here and had four months to plant the church. I knew two people. Marketing and advertising is my background, which my father owned an outdoor advertising company in South Louisiana. And we have seen the church thrive in helping people. Stories after stories after stories. In fact, there are some that are in this room tonight. A gentleman by the name of David Mayhew, who currently lives in Fayetteville, who At the end of last year, lost his wife, who'd been married to for over three decades, in a head-on collision. And it was because of the church that was there for him. He is now thriving today and living here in Fayetteville. So I'm asking you to help me, to help Q Point Church and those that are considered congregants at Q Point Church, to help us continue to reach people, to make this a better community. Vote in favor of this zoning so that we can... Walk alongside you and help you make Fayetteville a place that is thriving. Okay. Thank you. Justin, can I ask you a question, sir, please? First of all, it's a pleasure to meet you. And I'm very glad that you might possibly come to this location. One of the things that I... see as such a great value of a church, and certainly the one I belong to is no exception, is your efforts in the community, whether that's charitable efforts, it's helping out people, it's mission work, it's whatever. Could you summarize just in a short while sort of some of your bigger objectives when it comes to community service? Absolutely. One of our passions since day one is to be a church that the community knows. And when I say community, I mean our schools, our mayors. Go and talk to Mayor McCaslin, Mayor Himes, Mayor Sprouse, and they will all vouch for Key Point Church. Last year, we adopted Grace Hills Elementary in Rogers. Very low-income children. We've supplied close to 1,000 back sacks filled with supplies for their children. And we asked... Principal Little, what she would like, and we gave her the opportunity. What would you like? She said, we would like to send some teachers to a conference, but we do not have the money. And our congregation gave thousands of dollars and sent the teachers that she chose to a conference so that we could have a better educational system there in Rogers for these children. And that's just one of many, many things. We're very heavily involved with Pack Shack here locally. Okay. We've helped schools, Naps Elementary here in Springdale, right north of here. Many, many things we've done there. Many Christmas outreaches with no strings attached. Nothing about our church. It's just, look, we want to love on you, want to help you. Giving them different things for Christmas that normally they would not get. Thank you very much, Pastor. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you, Pastor, very much. Yeah, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. Mr. Mayor, I probably should say or answer a question that might be in some of your minds. Why are we talking about what a development would be in this particular case? Because the normal and ordinary rules that the project that the rezoning applicant may be considering is really not relevant in a zoning decision. But there is an exception to that. And one of the exceptions is if the type of proposed project would be such a type of project that would be granted special status by the courts. and one of those is a church or religious facility because they are protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution. There are other laws also on that, but I felt like this is something that we must look at very carefully here. As you know, and I had already told you in my memo to you that's in the file, that there is but a single zoning that actually has as its purpose And let me read it. The institutional district is designed to protect and facilitate use of property owned by larger public institutions and church-related organizations. The form-based zones do allow for a church by right, but they're not nowhere in their purpose section does it talk about that. It talks about commercial. It talks about multifamily. It talks about mixed-use property. Never in their purpose section does it refer to a church. And this particular group is requesting that for their church, and I think that that is important. I think it's also important to look at the fact that this is on a major highway, a high-speed highway, where the current facilities are all P1 and all back off the highway a little bit. And I think the Funeral Home and the Elks Club, they use their parking lots really as a buffer against the highway because there are high speeds there. There's tremendous traffic on 265. And so I think the church has requested the fundamental zoning that the city council enacted for churches, And I would hope that you would give that careful consideration. While the purpose of the institutional district may be to accommodate religious institutions, the purpose of zoning is to regulate land use and building form. And I have no objection to the proposed land use, but I do object to the building form. I do not want to see us develop crossover road to look like College Avenue, and so I think we need to set a higher standard for development in this corridor, and so with We'll be voting against overturning the Planning Commission's ruling. I think that they were spot on when they said that this needed a different building form. Okay. We're not there yet. We're still on the first three. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would encourage us to support this change in zoning and give them their P1 requested. I like what Mr. Williams says. This is a high-speed highway that's very well used. To put the building right up against the street would cause unnecessary risk to participants, would cause unnecessary noise from street cars passing up and down. I'd rather see the building further away from the street to act as that buffer, as Mr. Williams described. It's a good idea. So I would encourage us to grant this zoning change. Thank you. Okay. I agree completely and I also agree with what our developers said about where the parking lot would have to be and how far people would have to walk and that's in snow and rain and high wind and so forth. So to me, you know, I just think. Yes, we do want to look at form base, but that is our job up here is to look at how each individual request would, how it would be best served by our zoning and not that we have to. have every single thing look at the the form based zoning If we did that we could just kind of send out memos and sign them We would never have to meet and talk we could just you know say that's the rule. We're going to follow it So I certainly agree that we should give this developer and this owner and this this pastor and what they've requested and what they feel best suits their needs. They are the person coming to our city, and to me it's not very welcoming to say, well, you know, you can build your church, but you have to build it just like we want it built. You know, we need to have some rules, but we don't need to be so hard-nosed that we can't listen and consider individuality. Okay, just... Well, sending out memos wouldn't be nearly as fun as coming here on Tuesdays. There have been a couple of meetings where I've preferred memos, but most of all, they're a lot of fun. have not gotten any pushback from anybody in Ward 3. I'm not going to speak for Sarah, of course, but I haven't seen anybody against this. As a matter of fact, the reasons that I've heard for it are very similar to what John David said, which was this particular spot is a little weird in that there's not a lot of frontage compared to the depth of it. So If we wanted to force fit something in there, it would be a little difficult, I think, for a lot of different things to go in there. 265 is a major highway, second only to 49 in traffic. The fact that Scott Berna is the neighbor and he is so in favor of this, I spoke with him and he echoed what John David said, which this parking situation, it's a perfect way for them to be in partnership here. And it's really, really going to, I think, help. It's... Because of the fact that what Kit said about that we do consider the potential of the church situation going in there. And I think it is relevant to say that our side of town will be a better place for a community-minded group of individuals of all kinds and welcoming people into that area. I think that's a good thing. And that's why I asked the question about community and certainly got, I think, more than enough answer to be in favor of this. So I appreciate and respect the ideas of the form-based codes and understand why they're there. But in this particular case, I think doing this makes a lot of sense. I would like to spend the rest of the second reading, but I can wait until after Kyle or Sarah finish. OK. Kyle. I want to be careful when we start talking about walking distance through parking lots and parking lot placement. Whether the building is at the front and the parking is in the back, or the building is in the back and the parking is at the front, we've got the same number of cars and the same amount of pavement, and we're going to walk the same distance to the building. Not if you have a church in the middle. Well, if the church is in the middle, you've got parking in the front and the back, and you only have to walk half the spot. So, but I think when we look at what the churches bring to the surrounding neighborhood, it's really hard to come up with a reason to discourage a church use in any of our communities. zones that allow for the sort of traffic they're going to generate based on size. So like Justin said, this is, look at it on the map, this is a weird property. I know we've got a lot of weird stuff in Fayetteville thanks to our terrain. But given the surrounding area use, I will almost certainly support this. in this instance, under the institutional zone, because I think it kind of fits here. But I think what I'm hearing is there are a lot of challenges for churches seeking to develop in some of our other zones. And I think maybe we should listen to some of their experiences and look at ways to make it easier for them to use the form-based zones that... that we want to see used more to get the development to create the kind of places we want to see. So I hope that when we're done here, y'all will come back and share some of your experiences there so we can maybe move that experience out for next time. And... No, not yet. Okay. Sure. Yes. Justin brought up... Excuse me. If I've gotten any comments from anyone and I haven't, Sorry about that. I hadn't gotten any comments from anybody, good or bad. But with the neighborhood behind there, we've had dealings in the past, and with commercial properties that were proposed or rezonings involving commercial property, there was a lot of pushback. But I think that this is a good use of this site because it is, like everybody says, it's kind of an unusual site. But I think that the church would be a welcome member of that neighborhood and that community over there, and I'm going to be in support of it. Thank you. Justin. If there's no other comments, I'll move to suspend the rule to go to the second reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Justin. John. Second, Mayor. We have a motion to second the third and final reading. Please call the roll. Okay. We're fine. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 18-6125 for approximately 6.64 acres located at 4550 North Crossover Road from R.A. Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I don't have much to say, but I'm going to support this if only because of the purpose statement that's in P1 and the legal liability might be associated with that. I think that purpose statement should be rewritten. to eliminate that liability. It's dead simple to permit a church in our form-based codes. Not in RSF4, that it's on now, but in our form-based codes, it's by right. The only reason not to pursue that, I think, was clearly and honestly stated that there's probably neighborhood opposition to that, and that's a fine enough reason to request something else. I don't think there's anything wrong with a church being close to the street. I don't think there's anything wrong with any of the buildings being close to the street, and I think that's how you start to change things the trajectory of the highway there and i've been trying like uh really hard for the past 10 minutes to think of a of some kind of quip about the road to north college being paved in good good intentions um but it's not coming to me so anyway i'll support it for the reasons i stated okay any other final comments all right saundra would you please call the road Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, in Ordinance to Mend 111.30 Retail and Chapter 111 Alcoholic Beverages, The city code to allow private clubs and on-premises consumption hotel Motel and restaurant alcohol permit holders to self-serve or permit the consumption of controlled beverages beginning at 7 a.m Monday through Saturday Be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend section 111.30 subsection D private club permit and By repealing subsection D.3. Hours of Operation and enacting a replacement subsection D.3. as follows. Subsection 3. Hours of Operation. It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or any employee of a private club to serve or permit the consumption of any controlled beverages on the premises of said private club between the hours of 2 a.m. and 7 a.m. on any day. Section 2. Let the City Council or City of Fayetteville Archive hereby amend Section 111.30E, On-Premises Consumption, Hotel, Motel, or Restaurant Permit, by repealing Subsection E3, Hours of Operation, and enacting a replacement Subsection E3 as follows. Hours of Operation. It shall be unlawful for any person holding an On-Premises Consumption, Hotel, Motel, or Restaurant Permit. to sell, offer for sale, serve, give away, or permit consumption of any controlled beverages between the hours of 2 a.m. and 7 a.m. on Monday through Saturday, on Sunday except between the hours of 10 a.m. until midnight on Christmas Day, or during any 24-hour interval designated an emergency period by the mayor, city council, or any person acting in the mayor's or the city council's capacity. I think this was brought forward by Councilmember Tennant. Yes, it was. And the reason that it came forward was I was approached by a restaurant owner who's near the hospital. And they mentioned that they had several employees who were, quote, third shifters. And they were nurses and doctors and other employees who got off work. at 7 a.m. in some cases, and they work every night. And they come to his restaurant. He opens at 7. They come to his restaurant, and they're eating dinner. They're not eating breakfast, and they can't have a drink. And he just thought that that was wrong. He thought he was following the state law. It doesn't say anything about it. But the city code, correct me if I'm wrong, is what separates this. And so I did some just investigating on my own. The city attorney's office was helpful as always. And it did look like that it was a very, I'm still not sure why exactly we did it when we did, but I felt like what's different about these people that they can't do what I can do at five or six o'clock. At seven or eight o'clock and talk to some other restaurant owners who felt the same way. And I just thought we were being unfair to those people. And, and we have a lot of people, not just, you know, hospital workers, but they were the ones that, that, that I think wrote some letters and said some things and just. just said, why is it any different for me? They still have to, the restaurants and clubs or whatever, still have to follow the same rules about overconsumption. The police department has no issues with this. They don't see any extra problems that I know of. So I just feel like it makes sense for our business owners and for our residents. So that's why I wanted to make this change. Okay. Don? Yeah. Mayor, I just wanted to reiterate for Chief Tabor, who's not here right now unless he appears, that we did reach out to him and ask him regarding his support for this ordinance change. He is supportive of the change. Tom making it earlier, what he was not supportive of was extending the 2 a.m. side of it. So he's okay on the morning operating side as the police chief for the city. I might also add this has been a numerous request that has come in numerous times, not only for the situation that Councilmember Tennant said, but on weekends, on Saturdays when we've had early football games at 11 a.m. and people want to start their festivities earlier, this has also been a request for the City Council to look at. And so those individuals will be happy as well, Councilmember Tennant. Okay. Sure. I have a question. Why are we treating Sunday differently than the rest of the week? Is this something related to state law? And then why are we also exempting Christmas Day? Sunday for liquor by the drink restaurants is a different issue. We did have a vote that went to, first we had to have a vote to pass liquor by the drink, and that passed, and then later on they added Sunday on it, but they had these hours passed. And so that's why it's different. And as you can see in the private club, it's not there, but it is for the liquor by the drink establishments. Okay, and the same with Christmas Day? You got me on Christmas Day. That's what the ordinance read. I don't know if state law says that. It might. I'm not sure, but we didn't change any of that. We only changed this beginning time. And I did like that language at the end about a 24-hour interval designated emergency by the mayor, city council, or any person acting as a mayor or city council's capacity. I don't know who that's going to be. Not me, I guarantee you. So if you all want to declare emergency, I don't know how you're going to do it. Probably not going to make the mayor do it. Okay. But that was, again, that was language that was there, so we just left it as it was. Okay, but we could legally take out the part about Christmas Day and allow people to sell on Christmas Day. I'm not sure. I mean, state law might certainly say something about Christmas Day. We didn't look at this. We just changed the 7 a.m. We didn't change anything else. So before we take out Christmas Day, we would need to look and make sure that that's not in violation of the state law. Okay, so then the state law wouldn't supersede us if we took that out. Or, I mean, they wouldn't still have to... They always have to comply with state law. They always have to comply with state law, so I'm just wondering if it's redundant if it's in our ordinance as well. Or maybe we could just strike it and leave that up to the state. Okay. Yeah, I mean, they've got to comply with state law regardless. Okay, so I move that we strike Christmas Day and we'll leave the state up to regulate that part. Okay. May I ask you if that's something you've always been doing? Yeah. Does this not affect you drinking at home at any time? Solidarity with my brother. All right. Well, I'm not even going to make any comments. I can go for a ways on that one. So the motion was to strike on Christmas Day? Yes. As an amendment. As an amendment. Okay. Can I ask one question? But then... It falls to whatever the state law is anyway. Yes, we can go less than state law. We actually got sued over that and won when we went to 2 a.m. and state law allowed the three. So we're allowed to go less, not more. Okay, thank you. So we want to, for an amendment, we want to strike Christmas Day from this ordinance, correct? Yes, to enable people to drink on Christmas Day. I'm trying to get my bearings here. Even if it's just communion wine at the private club. Okay. What discussion do we have on that one? I will note that this was passed by the voters. So it probably requires, if you're going to strike something out like that, a two-thirds vote. I thought we were going to get a two-thirds vote pretty easy, but even your amendment on Christmas Day would require a two-thirds vote of the council in order to change what was on the ballot when the voters approved it. And you can't vote, Mayor. All right, then. What public comment do we have on the amendment? Yes. Yeah. Okay. My name is Wes Travis, owner-operator of Fuzzy's Taco Shop here in Fayetteville. And Justin, thank you for all your research and background check on everything. Thank you. He's exactly right. We have a ton of nurses that come over from Washington Regional. And if you've ever told a nurse that they can't have a beer or a glass of wine first thing in the morning after they get done with their shift. Could you define ton for us? It can be pretty scary. But no, I mean, we also have several people that have come over from distribution, Tyson, some different places. And, you know, 7 a.m., they're getting off work. That's dinner for them. And also, you know, the loss of revenue for the city and liquor taxes and everything else. You know, I don't see it as a loss in any direction. I see it as a win kind of for everybody. Honestly, I'd like to understand why it was put that way in the first place. But I would urge everyone to please vote for it. And I'd like to see it passed. Thank you. Okay. Just a quick Google search did show that Arkansas does have a restriction on Christmas Day. So I just wanted to let you know that. Oh, man. All right. There you go. Thanks, Will. Okay. Okay, so we have any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, being that the state law, I don't know. It might. It's probably helpful if our law accurately reflects the state law, so if somebody's looking at our code rather than the state code, they can find that. Okay. Well, with that, I'll withdraw my motion, but I object to the state law. I go on the record. Well, Sarah, I object to a lot of state laws these days. But anyway, . Yes, John. Thank you, Mayor. I'll be in the minority here. With all due deference to all of my colleagues on the City Council. Sunday and Christmas Day and Easter Day have been recognized by Christians for millennia, thousands of years. That's why it was special. That's why it's in our state law. And just so you understand, we believe that Jesus died on the cross for our mistakes. And that deserves respect. This is going to sound like a religion lesson, I know. But I just want you to look at it from our perspective for just a minute. We don't condemn anybody. We believe we've all made mistakes. And for a man to give his life for someone else that demands at least respect, you don't have to agree with it, you don't have to adhere to his religion, but at least respect it. That's why Sunday and Christmas Day were cut out as special days in our codes. And that wasn't just in Arkansas, that was throughout the country. And as time goes on, people forget why it was there and they do away with it, just like we attempted to do here tonight. I just wanted you to hear that perspective. Thank you. All right. Anyone else? We're on the first reading. But we're not doing the amendment poll. Yeah, the amendment's over. I think that was withdrawn, wasn't it? It was withdrawn. Yeah, that's what I meant. Yeah, it was withdrawn. Just making sure. We're on the ordinance. Correct. So is there a motion to suspend the rules? I would like to make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. All right. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please come on the road? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Section 111.30 Retail in Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages of the City Code to Allow Private Clubs and On-Premises Consumption Hotel, Motel, and Restaurant Alcohol Permit Holders to sell, serve, or permit the consumption of controlled beverages beginning at 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday. Adele. And may we go to the third and final reading? Justin. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. I'm waiting for the mover and seconder. I don't have anything on my screen yet. You got it up here. You got it? Okay. Thank you. All right. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. And ordinance amends section 111.30 retail in chapter 111 alcoholic beverages of the city code to allow private clubs and on-premises consumption hotel, motel, and restaurant alcohol permit holders. to sell, serve, or permit the consumption of controlled beverages beginning at 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday. All right. Comments, Kyle. John's comment got me wondering, we're not changing anything about the Sunday hours, right? We are not. No. That's going to be a load of people if they decide to start doing it on Sunday. Okay. I'm just making sure that that's not one of the things we're adjusting. No, it's still 10 a.m. to midnight on Sunday. Thank you. I do think that brings up a point. We get asked very often about liquor or alcohol sales on Sunday. That actually requires, I think, the city attorney has opined. That's an off-premises liquor store, and so that would require something else that we had not approved yet. A petition, signature, and an election. And as you've seen in other cities, it can be very difficult just to get the petitions. Once you get the petition signed, so many are required that you're going to win the vote. I just wanted to make it clear for people so they're not confused between those two items. I actually have called Kit a couple of times on the last Super Bowl Sunday while I'm standing in a 50-deck car line right across the Fayetteville-Springdale border at the stores. I wonder why we're not getting that revenue. And it does look a little daunting to try to change that. So maybe one day. But not now. Well, you know, our local liquor store owners were actually questioned about that several years ago, and they didn't want to be open seven days. Yeah. Because they thought they'd have basically the same sales, but spread out over seven days instead of six days. Yeah. I heard that, too. That's a fact. Okay. But anyway, any other final comments? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I want Matthew and I'm going to his house Christmas morning. Yes. You're all welcome. I've got to tell you, there's no emergency clause. You've got to wait for 31 days. B-Y-O-B. All right. Thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to amend 164.22, Cluster Housing Development Seed Development Review Process and 166.01, Development Categories B, Subdivision Plan 1, lot split to allow individual cluster housing unit lots to be processed through the subdivision planning process as a lot split. Kip. Whereas cluster housing proposals are subject to many protective development requirements pursuant to section 164.22 cluster housing development, and whereas authorizing a simpler individual cluster housing lot subdivision planning process increases the utility of a cluster housing development. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 164.22 Cluster Housing Development Subsection C Development Review Process by repealing the last sentence in Subsection C in its entirety and enacting a replacement sentence as follows, quote, If individual cluster housing unit lots are proposed and the proposal meets all of the requirements in this section, The subdivision shall be processed through the subdivision planning process as a lot split, regardless of the number of lots created, unquote. Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby amend Section 16601 Development Categories, Subsection B, the subdivision of land, and Subsection 1, lot split, by repealing the second sentence of B1 and enacting a replacement sentence as follows, quote, Except for lot splits created pursuant to Section 164.22, Cluster Housing Development Subsection C Development Review Process. After the creation of more than four lots from an original parent tract, any subsequent subdivision of the parent or resulting tracts is required to be processed as a preliminary final plat or concurrent plat." Matthew, I guess you have this. Yes, thank you. I brought this forward. So generally speaking, there are kind of three transactions an owner can use to get revenue from any particular property. You've got rental leases, you've got condo sales, and you've got fee-simple sales. So all this says is... If you got a Cluster Housing Development and it's been approved and it's met all the other requirements, then replatting the parent parcel to allow for fee-simple sales is now an option. That's always been an option, that's an option in the current code, but it's processed the same as other large plats, which means it has to go through a full review at the Planning Commission and requires a little bit of additional engineering and more notification time and so on and so forth. The lot splits are what we typically do for small subdivisions of land, parent tracking up to four new parcels. We process mostly administratively, and this says that we'd use the same process for closer housing development on the justification that closer housing developments are subject to far stricter standards than PLATS generally. Anybody got any questions for Matthew on this? Any public comment? Okay. We're back to the council. John. Move to suspend the rule and go to second reading. Thank you. Chair. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second meeting. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend section 164.22 cluster housing development subsection C development review process and section 166.01 Development category subsection B subdivision of land subsection 1 lot split to allow individual cluster housing unit lots To be processed through the subdivision planning processes process as a lot split We suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading John? Second motion, aye. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Aye. Yes. Mr. Aaron? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to amend Section 164.22, Cluster Housing Development, Subsection C, Development Review Process, and Section 166.01, Development Category, Subsection B, Subdivision of Land, Subsection 1, Lot Split, to allow individual cluster housing unit lots to be processed through the subdivision planning process as a lot split. Okay. You're calling this from the council. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? We have several announcements tonight. In 2014, the Fayetteville Fire Department jumped from a Class 4 rating to a Class 2 rating for our ISO score for the city, which is used to determine property insurance rates. After improvements such as updating mapping software, creating real-time response routes, reducing response times, acquiring another ladder truck and a rescue engine company, staffing additional personnel per shift, and providing more training and gathering more accurate water availability data, thanks to our council's water and sewer committee, We are thrilled to announce that the City of Fayetteville has received a public protection classification of 1 and the best possible classification for the insurance services offices. This new classification has the potential to really reduce insurance premiums for all of our residents, commercial and industrial property owners here in the City of Fayetteville. That rating becomes effective May 1, 2018. When you do your insurance renewals over the coming year, ask your agents about that because that talks about our safety improvement capabilities and the lower risk for insurance because of this improved rating for the decisions you've made on all those things I just outlined. Thank you. The second item, so we're really excited about that. We also hope that you will help us tell that story. That's an incredible accomplishment for the council. Basically, we're number one. Yeah, exactly. And the challenge of that is these decisions that you've made, maintaining that while we have population growth, because remember that we started out at a four. Yep. When this administration and this council took over, that's where you were, and today you're at a one. Yeah. The second item is the city is asking for survey participants in the first phase of parks strategic planning process. We've been holding numerous public meetings. We do want to remind citizens that this survey is online and available for those who have not been able to make a meeting. Um, we're getting great feedback. There was a meeting yesterday at the Walker Park Baseball Concession. There's a meeting this Thursday, May the 3rd from 5 to 7 p.m. at the Lake Fayetteville Arena, uh, and Saturday, May 5th from 8 to noon at the Fayetteville Square. Um... It's important, we're trying to not only have we had an overall survey, but we've had park-specific questions in each of the parks, Wilson, Walker, Gully. This week, obviously, is Lake Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Square Park. But I do want to encourage citizens to look at our website. The survey is available. We'd love your input. The last and final spring bulky waste cleanup is this coming Saturday. So if you don't get it done today, you've got to hold it until the fall if you want the city bulky waste cleanup. These are Ward 4 locations. So the location is Owl Creek School at 375 North Grupo Road and the Recycling and Trash Collection Facility. The hours are 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday, May 5th. We had a very successful cleanup in Ward 3 last weekend. And then we have a public art installation taking place this week on School Avenue. So you'll see temporary closures of that installation. project as the artist installs a form of life-scale topographic map of terrain between Dixon and Mountain Street as a visual reminder of the issues of water in Fayetteville's hilly landscape. It's a part of the Artisphere project, and the details of the... uh... triple map installation on the others for a website with a lot more center but you get a chance uh... after this week uh... check that part installation out It is a temporary installation, but a very visual on-the-ground installation. So I wanted to make people aware that if you're traveling in downtown and you utilize School Street, you will see periodic closures as that installation takes place. So plan for that on your routes between May 1st and May 4th. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.