I'm going to call the meeting of the City Council to order from May the 5th, 2020. Kevin, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Here. Pinion. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Fayetteville City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, and I am present in the council chambers
 with a handful of essential sports staff kit williams city attorney cara paxton city clerk treasurer susan norton chief of staff police chief mike lennels fire chief brad harden finance director paul becker and two representatives from federal's i.t department city council members city staff and the public are participating online or by phone other than those of us you see before you
 the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting
 viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Instructions are being shown on screen. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to speak.
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized please state your name and address for the record each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment which staff will monitor now let's begin the first order of business that we have tonight under presentations is our monthly financial report by paul becker paul
 good evening mayor and council this report will be uh for the month of march which is the end of the first quarter of 2020. i want to caution everybody uh and remember basically all the revenues we're going to be talking about right now are collections
 through the month of February. So they're going to look, so our revenue is going to look better than it will in the future because essentially this revenue was before the pandemic. With that said, let me begin.
 Sales tax at that point in time, as of March, which were collections through February for sales here in Fayetteville, were up 8% compared to last year. That was 5% over budget. Building permits were also up compared to the prior year. Beverage taxes were up.
 Court fees were down a bit and franchise fees were pretty level. All in all, the entire city was about five percent over budget through the period.
 So at that point in time, the general funds revenue was in fact up. For the street fund, revenue was up over 10% over the budget, and that was driven by the collections of the state sales tax committed for roads and transportation. Expenditures were about at the position that I would expect them to be, so we were pretty solid in the street fund through the first quarter.
 the parking fund and this again is in total at this point through the year revenue is down about five percent uh through the first quarter between four and five percent that would be fines were down however almost 25 for that period now when we're talking about the parking fund you remember that is legitimately march because those collections are in fact recorded in that month so
 In parking, we're starting to see the effect of the pandemic and the slowdown. At the end of April, we'll talk about that, but we'll see that the parking fund was down significantly at that point in time, but that's about a month away before that report comes forward. For the parks development fees, those are HMR taxes. And at that point in time, at the end of the first quarter, we were up 1%.
 uh for parks development fees again we will see that decline certainly when we move forward into the period which will cover the actual march collections this is collections through february
 Water and sewer were up about 3%. So water and sewer is fairly solid at this point in time. Remembering water and sewer, we've got over a $40 million capital budget. As I reported the last time when we talked about this, we're carrying on with the capital budget. That money is up.
 In the city coffers at this point in time, we still have a solid reserve position even after those capital project checks. So we're moving ahead pretty aggressively with them at this point in time. So far, we've got about $10 million of that committed for the year.
 Recycling and trash collection, we were down, our service charges were down 8% through the period of February. And remember, we were budgeted at about a $1.3 million loss based on the new rate study that had been done last year, where we had intended to reduce reserves at that point in time.
 The airport at the end of February, actually their sales were doing fairly well. They were up about 6% in gallonage of jet fuel sales compared to the prior year. So they were doing well at that point in time. Again, I'll report and I'll reiterate that this is through
 March the first quarter, how most of the revenues, however, are reported on collections of February before we really got into the pandemic. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. Is there any questions from the council on the finance report? All right, let's move on to consent agenda. All right, number one, approval of the April 21st, 2020 city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to convey
 1 434 square feet of right-of-way along highway 16 the arkansas highway and trans highway arkansas department of transportation for the highway 16 interchange project for the amount of five thousand one hundred seventy five dollars number three a resolution award bid number 20-28
 and authorize the purchase of oil and lubricants from the mcpherson companies incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices is needed for a term of one year the option to renew for four additional one-year terms number four
 a resolution to award bid number 20-35 and to prove the purchase of two ford 550 and one ford 350 trucks from lewis ford at fedmo in the total amount of 172 298 dollars for use by the parks and recreation department and water and sewer operations division number five a resolution to approve the purchase of a compact excavator with hammer attachment from the
 H&E Equipment Services of Springdale, Arkansas, in the amount of $72,491.21, plus political taxes and freight charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract reused by the Utilities Department. Number six, a resolution authorized the purchase of three Kenworth dump trucks from MHC Kenworth of Springdale, Arkansas, for the total amount of $5,000.
 $1,927.32 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract for use by the utilities department and to approve budget justice. Number seven, a resolution authorized purchase of a dump truck from Peterbilt of Fort Smith, Arkansas for the amount of $174,480 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract.
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $4,329 representing donations from friends of YRCC to fund a summer internship with the Summer Fund for Kids and Fund for Teens Camp Programs offered by the Yvonne Richardson Community Center. Number nine, a resolution to approve task order number four
 with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $58,000 for continuing native vegetation establishment efforts and minor adjustments within the stream is necessary to ensure continued success
 of restoration projects number 10 a resolution to prove the purchase of a thousand cellular advanced metering infrastructure water meters from hannard utility products incorporated any amount of 196 960 plus applicable taxes freight charges used by the utilities department and to approve budget adjustment number 11 a resolution award bid number 20-33 and to authorize contract with
 with the field shop corporate in the amount of $47,020.41 plus applicable taxes and freight charges for the installation of new LED lighting fixtures and dimming system in the television center studio. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Second then. All right. How is the one that made the motion and Sonja second?
 All right, everybody good? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Petty. Yes. Scroggen. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Moving along to unfinished business.
 Okay, number one resolution authorized the city attorney to seek condemnation possession of certain lands owned by Tracy Gatti Mays needed for design road construction project. Chris, I understand you have this one.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'm happy to report that we do not need this council action. We were able to come to an agreement with the property owner. We received the signed right-of-way and easement documents today, so this issue is resolved. We do now have all the right-of-way necessary, and we'll be able to move forward to bidding and construction very soon. I can answer any questions if anybody has any. Does anybody have any questions for Chris on this?
 Do we need to table this or what would be the appropriate action? Yeah, I was going to suggest that we table this indefinitely. So I need a motion and second to table indefinitely if you're agreeable to that. I'll table indefinitely unless we need public comment. Second that. We have a motion and second to table indefinitely. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. Matthew. Oh, sorry. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number two, an ordinance rezoning that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7014 for approximately 0.27 acres located at 1324 West Mount Comfort Road from RSF
 for residential single four units per acre to RAU residential intermediate urban. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Move to go to the second reading. So, Sloan, you're making a motion to go to the second reading? Yes. Second. Do we have a second on that? We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerwood, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. And your ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZM 20-7014 for approximately 0.27 acres located at 1324 Westmount Comfort Road from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 Okay, Garth. Yes, Mayor. I don't have anything to add to the rezoning request. I did put together a memo about the infill scoring matrix that Councilmember Petty inquired about.
 And I could do a little demonstration of that, assuming I can make my technology work, which is sometimes a little bit challenging for me. Or I could answer questions about the memo, however you want to go. I can go to it live and do a little demonstration of the infill matrix and talk about the parameters that are on the matrix and how we derive those. Okay, why don't you do, oh, I'm sorry. You have questions there?
 I'd just like to hear the information that Garner has to present and learn about the matrix. Okay. That's where I was going to go. Garner, why don't you give us a presentation and then take whatever questions after the presentation. All right. Here we go. I'm sharing the matrix. Did it magically appear? Yes. Hello? Yes. Okay. So this is an interactive tool. And it goes to a lot specific level. And you can click on...
 any lot in the town and get a score and then get how the score was derived. So I'm going to click on the lot from tonight and then you punch this. Now, can you all read the score of seven on top? Yes. Okay. So does it have sufficient intersection density? This did not.
 Let me explain what that is. The National Neighborhood Planning Menu bleed has a recommended density, and that's 140 intersections per square mile. So all that this means is that this particular neighborhood doesn't have that density. Appropriate land use, again, it's a broad category.
 but it's very specific and it refers to the designated city, neighborhood or urban center designation on the future land use plan, the land use map, the future 2040 map. And it doesn't have that designation. So is it near one half mile from a grocery store? Yes, it is. Is it within a master plan area? No, it isn't.
 Is it with the Ozark Regional Transit bus stop? No. Near a park? We yet know because we don't yet call Lewisville Park. So I'm kind of going through this just to show you the limitations that something that is extremely objective has when you're using it for legislative decision. Near public school? Yes, it's within a half mile. It's within a half mile of a Razorback bus stop.
 It is within 300 feet of a sewer main. It is not in the 71B corridor. It is near a paved trail. It is not within half mile of the campus. That also is a near miss. It is close to being a yes there. It is near a water main 300 feet. It is within the four minute response time of the fire protection. These are the three main things
 14 possible parameters. You can't get to 14, and I could explain that too. The highest I could find was 13. So this scored seven. And I think going through it, it has a lot of possibilities. I think it can add objectivity and consistency to the information that you're using.
 but it certainly can't substitute for a much broader range of considerations that typically go into rezoning items. The other item I would point out is these scores are yes-no, and a more sophisticated version of this would be to actually weight the yes-no or put a weight on the scores. Maybe being closer to a grocery store is more important than some of the other parameters.
 I think a summary is that it's a new tool. It needs to be used, it needs to be refined, and it needs to be used differently depending on what decision is being contemplated. For instance, if you were evaluating whether you want to, or staff were evaluating whether we want to add a subsidy,
 to pay for some of the public facilities in Curry's infield. This score might be weighted by the mayor and council preemptively and be very useful because your values then would be translated into that staff decision. However, if you're making a legislative decision which has a high degree of discretion associated with it and should,
 you individually can weigh those parameters and it's all part of the legislative process. So I think it adds objectivity to the process and it has a lot of potential, but we need to use it and refine it as we go forward. Happy to answer any questions. Mayor Kite, do you have a question? Mayor, I have a question. Sure. Matthew, go ahead.
 Yeah sure, I'm sorry. Okay. I'm a little behind. I agree with what you said that it needs, that its utility is a little limited right now. Especially I think it would benefit from some waiting. I don't want to use my time to, especially on this agenda item, to, for my part, to discuss the InfoScore at length. But I did want to ask a question. You mentioned
 Two of the parameters with respect to this particular property, you seem to describe as being unusual. The first was whether or not it was near a park. I think you said that it was near Lewis Fields, but that those were not counted as a park. Yes. And I think you also said that it squeaked just out of the boundaries, which would have checked the box for being quote unquote
 near the university? Yes, council member, I was using that to try to make the point that the fact that it is objective also brings into the focus its limitation. Absolutely, it should be no replacement for a more nuanced way of thinking.
 But you did say that it was useful and that it was useful for comparing two different properties in at least some of these dimensions. It seems like the truer score is at least an eight and it's probably somewhere closer to a nine, maybe between an eight and or nine, but closer to a nine based on your explanation of the park parameter. I think that's perfectly legitimate legislative interpretation of that score, yes.
 I may have some more thoughts on the agenda item later. Thank you for taking the time to explain this. Do we have any other questions? I have a question. Sure, go ahead Theresa. Thank you. Gardner, could you elaborate on how those parameters were derived? Because that seems very interesting. And are there other cities that have similar infill
 I guess scorecards that you use to review this. The history of this particular effort was the mobility plan. Consultants brought metrics with that plan, which we use to score projects now. We score sidewalk projects, street projects, and infill was such a high priority issue with the public input as we were doing 2040.
 that we thought perhaps we could see if we could create a score that would measure, first of all, what public facilities are nearby that don't have to be extended, which is an efficiency issue. And secondly, what attractions or services are nearby, which is a quality of life issue, which I think is important for many, many city decisions.
 the process for putting together the score was the planning staff worked with the i.t department and very extensively with our planning commission if you go back go to appendix 3 of 2040 you can find more background information about that as well as the planning commission's effort to add weight to the the factors does that answer your question
 Yes it does. I'm trying to unmute. I'm having a little technical difficulty. Thank you Gardner. That's fine. Any other questions for Gardner? Yes, I have a question. Sure. Go ahead, Simon. Thank you very much for the example as we're getting an actual rezone. I think it's very helpful.
 I am looking forward to using those the tool a lot more uh it still feels really new and and I appreciate you saying it's just one of many ways that we can look to evaluate property um I think one thing I've been thinking about um because we talked about this recently is trying to understand like a score what's the average score in Fayetteville um for a piece of property um and then what is um
 you know the low and what is the high i guess maybe zero is a low 14 is the high so maybe that's already said but i guess i kind of want to understand um where where most of our property is um and if it's if it's just to have a comparison does that make sense sure um if you go to that map and look at the uh the map the similar colors have similar scores um i would say the seven
 is pretty typical. There, you can find scores up to 9-11. I found one that was 13. If you go to the perimeter of the city, in the serviced area, you often get scores of three or four, meaning water and sewer and fire response time and sometimes a park.
 And sometimes they're close to the services too. So you'll see, I actually have them for the rest of the zoning items tonight. And on Rupert Road, we're actually showing for the P1 request on Rupert Road, it's got a nine. That's on the high side. That's great, thank you. And then I'm thinking to get to this infill map, I just go to the map, the GIS maps on the website? If you'll go, do you have a memo that's attached to the agenda item?
 I will look at it. Okay, go to that memo, and then it says click here, and double-click, and it'll take you right to it. Right, okay. And then you can save that link. Okay, all right. Yeah, that'd be great to eventually, I guess, is this still in progress? Is that way, if we could add it to those maps, the city maps, eventually? Is it still in progress? Yeah, like, are we, is it kind of in their beta, or can we, is it something that I could share with
 It is entirely usable. It's online. Anybody can go to it and get the score. Awesome. And see the parameters that scored yes or no. Great. Thank you.
 Sure. Thank you. I'm glad that we're developing this tool. I really agree that it's not there yet. Just some comments on it. I would really like to see transit lines considered together, because I think that how they're working now is a more holistic system. And I think that we've tried to eliminate some of the duplicates in service areas. So I'm
 I think that could be helpful. Also, I think we're over prioritizing the 71 by B corridor and that we should also give some weight to our various neighborhood centers. It and as well as the box around the city, because I think that we do want to encourage and fill along those nodes.
 As well as adding a weighted value to the proximity of the U of A, since that's our largest employer and that is kind of an arbitrary cutoff. I think that it is probably about walking distance or cycling distance, but having that weighted value I think is especially important there. And then on grocery stores, I like the idea there, but I would like to see us look at other services. And I think LEED does a really good job of...
 defining kind of what basic services we might want to include, like banks, restaurants, stores, child care. And so expanding beyond grocery stores, because we do have a lot of food deserts in this community. But I don't think that that should be a barrier to infill. I think that, you know, it's kind of like when we look at putting in crosswalks and we don't quite have the traffic or the pedestrian counts yet because there's no crosswalk there and there's no safe opportunity for that.
 So I think if we did that, that would be really helpful. But overall, I think that we're headed in a really good direction and I would like the council to have an opportunity to workshop this and help improve the tool because I think it is helpful. So thank you for your efforts in moving this along. Thank you. All good points. Just to throw in my interpretation of this, because I'm glad that we're finally getting to see this in action.
 I look at it a little differently though. I don't view this This data map as instructive as far as where we should look for places to infill I look at it as more of an analytical tool that measures the infrastructure to tell us what areas Have what it needs have what they need to be ready to be in filled Currently, so the fact that I look at this and see I
 yellow in some areas and purple in others doesn't mean let's go build where the yellow is. We have our own intuition and judgment for that for where we should look for infill areas. But if I see an area that
 the council thinks should be an infill zone that is a pale purple then that's a sign that it doesn't have the infrastructure to accomplish our goals and we should use that to guide our investments maybe more so than our individual zoning also excellent point it's not it doesn't create
 the full range of information you need to make decisions, but it adds a convenient list of facts about each parcel and that everybody has access. And it's excellent for spotting gaps. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions? Mayor, I believe that if no one has any questions, I believe that Blake Jorgensen, the applicant, is online.
 I believe he also requested to do a presentation, and we told him that that would be up to the council. Well, I think a presentation would be okay unless the council disagrees with that. Anybody in disagreement with seeing a presentation from Ms. Jorgensen? Okay. Blake, go ahead. Blake, I'm actually gonna promote you to a panelist so that you're able to share your screen. Okay, go ahead.
 Mr. Jordan, go ahead with your presentation. All right. Well, let's see if I can share content. Let's see. Honestly, I don't think the presentation is necessary at this point. I'm trying to figure out how I can, because now...
 Let's just, let me just go ahead and give a, let me just go ahead and expand on where we left this at the last point. The presentation namely was going to give an exhibit, which I had shared with staff, you know, we're in different times. Typically we'd be all, you know, I'd be at the podium, you guys be up in your good comfortable chairs and we'd have a nice big screen to share things with. And, uh,
 And honestly, I can't share the exhibits that I had, but I can run through them. They're all rezonings that this current council had previously approved. But to get back to what I was saying,
 The first time we were on this reading, I was okay to table it and let things settle in. And I wasn't aware tonight that we were going to have some matrix score. That tool, yes, I understand it's got some tweaking to do, but I think it does improve.
 illustrate the point that this property is, it's not an unreasonable request. The whole point of the presentation was to show several properties that did get RIU successfully. Anything from the far west side of town, which is the street of 54th and 16th, I believe it's around 30 acres. Um, we have a property at Cleveland and Razorback that got it
 Porter and Houston, we actually did that one. That's about probably two miles west of here. Y'all are familiar with the Pratt Place Inn, it got RRU. Something two miles east of here is Gregg and Spruce. And something that Council Member Kenyon was trying to wrap his head around was that one of the property owners on Hendrix had,
 conveyed to him he was interested in a rezoning well he has now submitted that rezoning as well as another landowner on hendrix uh will um fugate so we do have other requests coming down the pipeline um this is the first one there's going to be i believe six more so um i'm real excited to see that you know that matrix score come up or i'm sorry the infill scoring um
 I'm sorry, I haven't dealt with matrixes since college or seen the movie. So this is all the future stuff. So, I don't have much more to add now that I've seen that. I feel that it's not an unreasonable request. I think it is something that this council has approved in the past from several different varying properties from far west side of town, from downtown Fayetteville. I think it's a good zoning.
 it opens up the palette for development and I don't want to go much further than that. And sorry, I could not share that presentation. If I have to, I can probably click some buttons and then next thing you know, I may not be here anymore on the screen. So I'm gonna turn it back to the council, to Mr. Lionel Jordan, the mayor, and we'll go from there. All right, thank you, Mr. Horton. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Okay, all right. Now we will take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five-minute limit. Unless City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, say on topics, topics that are rezoning, no rude behavior. And please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Mayor, I see Terry Phelan. Okay. Terry, you're on. Can you hear me now?
 Yes. Okay, there we go. All right. So I have sent the council and the planning staff my email. I'm not going to read through it, but I am against this rezoning, and you have my email that enumerates why. I will touch on a couple of issues, however.
 i i agree that i or excuse me i disagree that this uh is uh appropriate for uh this lot in this neighborhood uh that lot um uh touches both uh it touches not just uh mount comfort but it touches uh hendrix also uh it's it's a it's long been a residential uh neighborhood and um i don't think um
 this R-I-U rezoning would respect that. There is absolutely no bill of assurance attached to the rezoning request that assures that single family housing would be built. In the first reading, Mr. Jorgensen stated
 as i recall something about uh all he wanted to do was was build a uh you know split the lot and build a couple of four bedroom homes but the reality is as as i said in my email from information i got from garner stowell that this riu would open it up to much more than that and and a stated a stated intent does not equal
 a um a requirement and so uh jorgensen or whoever it is that owns that lot uh once that riu is approved could build uh some monstrosity that absolutely does not fit in with um residential um single-family zoning uh this rezoning request i do not believe is is being done in the spirit of being a good neighbor to the rest of us
 We have not seen any building designs. We don't know how tall, I mean, we don't want to end up with, you know, a three-story mini feed mills like what happened over on West Hickory across the street from, across Garland from this neighborhood. The planning staff, if I can get them to come up,
 Didn't if I missed did not miss read it even the planning staff States that this isn't really not an appropriate Zoning for this area and I would encourage and ask that all of the council members vote against this The council really, you know infill has its place but it's not this zoning and not this neighborhood not on this lot and
 And it's, you know, what really, what I would like to see the city council spend their efforts in is in planning staff is maybe coming up with a program that gives that gives the city council a chance to
 property owners of older homes and older neighborhoods access to low-cost uh you know remodeling programs repair improve upgrade maybe even build on a bedroom or two but um but this this infill these infill requests are are getting um
 getting ridiculous and um i feel sorry for uh the neighborhood to excuse me for the neighborhood neighbor who is right next to this uh given the setbacks and who knows what would be built there but um i'm against this
 absolutely vehemently against this. There's no bill of assurance and he can say whatever he wants, but if this gets passed, he can build up whatever he wants. Apparently. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Terry. Is there any other public comment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So what's the wishes to council? Short wish list. Okay. So, uh,
 Y'all want to hold it on this reading? What y'all want to do? I'd like to hold it on this reading. Okay. Is anybody in disagreement? If there was a motion, I'd vote to advance it. Okay. I move that we advance to the next reading. Okay, that would be the third and final reading. We have a motion to move to the third and final reading. Is there a second? I second the motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Is there discussion on this motion? Yes, Mark. Yes. I would like to hold this. This is in my ward. And with the situation that we're in where there's not a lot of social interaction, there's a lot of isolation.
 and less communication. We know in this neighborhood that there is a deep connection with the neighbors. There's a heritage in the neighborhood of looking out for each other. And there's a real concern, and we know this from recent discussions and traveling to that neighborhood and looking around, of having some measure to protect some of the heritage of the neighborhood.
 I don't know how it will turn out any different if we do delay it, but I think out of respect for the neighbors and the neighborhood, and in light of the situation we're in, where we're not having a lot of social interaction, that this should be held on this reading. So that's my point of view and it is in my ward. And I do represent these people. They elected me to represent them and I'm going to stand up for them every chance I get.
 Any other discussion? I would just like to say that I completely agree with Mark. And I really think the council, if anything, we should err on allowing more discussion from the public.
 I think many people are intimidated by using the Zoom or calling in. And, you know, we're in difficult times right now. And so allowing three readings, not just moving things along as we do commonly, I think is something that we should really make do with and consider during these times. Okay. Thank you. Any other discussion on it?
 Yes, I'm going to have to agree with Teresa on that one because I think a lot of people are kind of intimidated by using the Zoom feature and we don't seem to have the few meetings we've had so far this way. We haven't had nearly as many comments and public input. So I'm going to be in favor of that. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Yes, I'm also going to be. Go ahead.
 I'm going to also be in favor of holding this. I was able to go over there and check out the property and I would encourage everyone to go over there if you haven't already. It's incredibly narrow and I'm concerned about the setbacks and I'm concerned that the neighbors do not know that this is up for discussion so I just want to make sure and give ample time.
 And we've already seen public input be much lower than it has been. So I just want to consider that as well. Okay. Any other discussion? I'm looking at the map and who owns what. And the applicant mentioned that, I mean, clearly a lot of these are renters. There are trusts that own massive blocks. It would be nice to know.
 which rezonings are going through planning commission because maybe rezoning this as an entire block would make more sense than spot okay other discussion we have on advancement to the third reading
 I'm happy to hold it here. It's not going to change my mind. We have a housing crisis that we're dealing with. We need more housing, and we need it in close proximity to transit and services and existing infrastructure. And this is that place. So I'm strongly supportive of this rezoning. I think we need more diversity of housing types. We need to be better about meeting our housing needs.
 And if that takes us several weeks rather than just doing this, then that's fine. But our housing crisis is only getting worse and we need to be building and we need to be building a diversity of housing types.
 As far as the person's comments, the public's comment about not having seen plans, well, this isn't, we're not approving a specific development proposal. We're approving a change in land use. And regarding respecting the heritage of the neighborhood, for a long time in this country, people of color, people were denied opportunities to own homes. And so when you talk about heritage, you're talking about this,
 history of people being limited in who can live in what neighborhood by zoning and by lending practices.
 And that was by design. And we need to open up opportunities for housing all around our community. And having that diversity of housing types is so important. And just because people are renting does not necessarily mean that they behave differently than people who are owning. And I'm tired of this bias against people who do not have the economic means or necessarily desire to be homeowners. Right.
 I think that this should be a city for everyone and that is best achieved through diversification in our neighborhoods and this is a great opportunity to advance that. Thank you. So Sarah, are you saying that you're going to pull your motion? Yeah, I'll pull the motion. You know, we have a lot of people that want to wait so we'll wait. Okay, you'll have to pull the second too.
 I'll hold a second and Mayor, when we've dispensed with this procedure, I do have a comment. Sure. Thank you. I appreciate that Councilmember Marsh is raising what I think is the most important issue that's relevant to the discussion today. We've seen homelessness increase by 150% over the last 10 or 12 years. I don't have the exact numbers in front of me.
 It's easy for us to say that all of that is due to wage stagnation and that our decisions about how housing is built in the city have had nothing to do with it. But I think that's the equivalent of burying our heads in the sand. When people move to Northwest Arkansas, they're typically moving from somewhere else and they're coming here because they are getting a better life. And usually that means that they're earning higher incomes than the people who already live here.
 And that means they're outbidding people who live in these houses. If housing is not provided at the same rate that people move here, housing prices skyrocket and people get evicted. The way I was raised, it's a sacred duty to care for future generations. With respect to decisions like climate change and housing, it could be more helpless. We'll do the right thing. I have a question for Garner.
 earner last uh meeting i asked you about the role of the infill score in the planning department's decision making process tonight i'd like to ask you about the role of the energy action plan well it's certainly a plan that is significant in in fact many elements of the energy action plan were translated to 2040.
 So our planning staff relates when they evaluate the rezoning request, they obviously look at the land use and 2040 and the energy action plan are largely supportive of each other, I believe. Energy action plan is all over the idea of reducing the length of trips, providing alternatives for
 making trips other than using a car. And we always use that in our planning staff reports. We talk about mixed use and variety of housing types. All that I think are supportive of the energy action plan. Governor. The last thing I feel as though I need to say as a representative for this ward
 and in many ways I regret saying it, is that it seems to me like the adopted policies as represented in the plans that this council has passed were largely ignored or paid lip service when staff considered this property. When I read the staff memo, I see that there were barely a few sentences that speak directly to the goals of our comp plan. And I see that most of the narrative explain why
 the recommendation is still justified even though it does not advance the other goals. It's very concerning for me. I feel as though we have been given a political recommendation, but not one that speaks to the policy goals that we have enumerated in our planning document. I understand your viewpoint. I disagree. That area is designated a residential neighborhood
 and read the plan, read the description residential neighborhood. It doesn't mean exclusively. It's not city neighborhood. It's designated residential neighborhood. Now if you go to the south side, it's city neighborhood. South side of Mount Comfort. North side is not. And if you look at the districts that were contemplated as appropriate to implement
 residential neighborhood concepts. It's a broad range of districts, but it certainly includes the district that we had suggested which is RSF 8. Thank you for explaining the distinction between the designations on the future land use map and I respect you quite a bit and respect that we may agree to disagree about this particular matter. However,
 The location of this property with respect to other recommendations looks like a smoking gun on the recommendation to me. This is a highly preferenced location with respect to jobs, with respect to services, with respect to transportation. I might be able to accept an explanation that the comprehensive plan and the goals within it had been given the consideration that
 that we expect if the recommendation had not been for RSF8. It is clear from the definition of residential neighborhood area in our comprehensive plan that it is intended to encourage a mix of residential types and yet the planning department's recommendation was for a exclusively single family district. It is bizarre to me, it doesn't comport
 I appreciate the designation between residential neighborhood area and city neighborhood area because I note that this request is not for anything other than a residential zone. It's not a city neighborhood area, and it is not a zoning request that would allow anything other than residences. I will gather my thoughts for next week, next two weeks. Okay. Any other discussion? I have a little bit of clarification now that we've gone this far. Yes, Mark.
 First of all, to mention the heritage of the neighborhood and turn it into some kind of racial argument was very offensive. That's certainly not what I meant. What I'm talking about is the promise that the city council made to an established neighborhood to help protect their neighborhood as a residential neighborhood. That's exactly the promise and that's exactly the recommendation that was made. This is what I'm looking at from my point of view.
 The point of when we're talking about buying a home and you say that we need more housing, we do need more housing, but we need affordable housing. And this is an area that currently does have single family homes that are somewhat affordable. But I have seen and you can look at recent, let's say over the past five years, where we looked at the argument that the more density we have, the more affordable the homes will be.
 That has not been the case. I guess we can go on and on and talk about that maybe being the case, but it isn't. And the fact of the matter is we did promise as a city council to help this neighborhood protect
 the residential neighborhood that they live in. And that's what I've got to think about. Plus from planning staff, thank you, Mr. Stull, for trying to clarify the point of view. It is exactly the point of view that we established
 before we got down to this point so i'm going to respect that a great deal and i'm going to respect the neighbors and i think that there has to be a lot more discussion on this to see if there's some way that we can come up with a a resolution uh through a compromise perhaps but
 This is not the right zoning for this property if you look at the total story and you look at what the council had done in the past and you look at what the planning department has recommended. So there is a lot. I've got to do more homework myself.
 But I do know, and I am not a person that says, I'm going to vote one way or another, period. I'm one that's looking for valid arguments to help me understand why I would have to change my point of view. And I have not heard them yet. I hope that the neighbors will certainly get together and work on this also. It's happened in the past in this area. So I think we can work out something but,
 As the rezoning stands in this ordinance and this rezoning, I have to say that the residential neighborhood needs to be protected.
 I'd like to note that the zoning that they're requesting is a residential zone. So we're just looking to add more residences to this neighborhood. And really what it's allowing is smaller lot sizes. And if we were to look at housing affordability, first of all, I think it's really important that we understand that new homes are naturally more expensive than existing homes, just like new cars. You can't compare the price of a new car to an old car.
 So there is a certain new home cost that comes from better building standards, higher wages, and higher materials prices that...
 that creates a natural indifference in the cost of new homes versus older homes. But what can really impact the housing affordability is the land cost. And allowing smaller lot sizes will enable that, that lowers the land cost, which by consequence will lower the overall housing cost.
 And one of the reasons that we're seeing some of the more inappropriately large homes, like the four bedrooms that are being rented out by the room, is because we have barriers to building apartments and small homes in this city. To build four one-bedroom cottages, you would still have to pay the same impact fees, or actually you'd pay four times the impact fees to build one room.
 four-bedroom house that you were then able to rent by the room. So we have these inequalities already in our fee structure system that are incentivizing the creation of these monster houses rented by the room that are preventing the development of small infill homes like cottages or small apartment buildings. But I think that what we
 What we need to also remember is in addition to our energy action plan and our 2040 city plan, we also have our welcoming cities plan.
 And what does it actually mean to be a welcoming city? And if we were to look at our approved welcoming city plan, tenants five, eight, and nine, five is to develop intentional, thoughtful approaches to programs that take into consideration all residents, not just existing homeowners, all residents. And some of those are renters. Some of those are new residents. Some of that is planning for the future. So all residents should be equally considered.
 Number eight is to increase efforts to attract and retain talent, including international students. And, you know, they need a variety of housing types, including apartments, houses that you can rent and share. And tenet number nine is to increase access to housing and transportation services. And this lot is on a transit line.
 And this is an opportunity to increase housing in an area that is served by transit, that's in close proximity to services and our university. So being a welcoming city isn't just about saying we're welcoming, but it's actually welcoming people who are different from us as well as similar to us into our neighborhoods.
 And so if we want to be welcoming, let's infill these lots that are being underutilized and create some opportunities for housing. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? I'll make one more comment.
 Yes, here we go again. So we're trying to destabilize a stable, modest neighborhood by totally transforming this neighborhood in a very large way. I really think we need to have some consideration about the existing residents that have been there. And not just I mean, what happens is that you take away these houses that are affordable for renters.
 And then you build a house that's $400,000. That's unaffordable. And that's what's been going on all over town. So we are losing affordable housing. We're not gaining anything. I'd also like to finally comment and say, we're in the middle of pandemic. We're gonna have the projections that we've been under saying a tremendous amount of growth up here. Those may need to be revised. We don't really know what's gonna happen in the future.
 And so we need to be thinking that way. But I think the first point should be we need to consider the people that have been living in those areas for the last 30 years, paying taxes, owning their homes or renting them out and enjoying that neighborhood. So I do look forward to two weeks of more discussion about this. I think this will be a long, a long issue. Thank you. Okay.
 I've got some issues if we consider enjoying a neighborhood is making sure that people that have different incomes from us don't get to live there. I don't like saying that. Speaking of pandemics and people coming or going, uh,
 the models of climate change actually say more people are going to come here. So Northwest Arkansas, if other places have issues, they're actually going to come here more, not less. Okay. Anybody else? Well, Mayor, if I were smart, I would keep my mouth shut because I'm sitting here thinking I'm the one that wants to make everybody unhappy. If we were going ahead and voting on this tonight, I would be ready to do that.
 I think we will still be on Zoom. I think people who are not taking part in Zoom meetings probably still won't be. I think that we have heard from this neighborhood, not on this petition, but in very recent memory we have heard from this neighborhood. I think I can say with pretty strong confidence that I know how they would feel about this one. I think we will continue to work with them.
 I have visited with Ms. Phelan and I'm 100% confident that I would support a denser development for this neighborhood than she would feel comfortable with. But two weeks ago, I made clear that the petition in front of us right now is not the way I would do it. And that's because it's
 I'm not willing to do that one lot at a time. Mr. Jorgensen pointed out tonight that we're about to get an opportunity to do quite a bit more than one lot at a time. And I flipped over and I looked at the planning map and it's a multi-lot plan. And I think that's a good example of what we're doing. And I think that's a good example of what we're doing. And I think that's a good example of what we're doing.
 that we're going to get to see coming up. And that, and the one that we just talked about rezoning to RSF8 a few weeks ago is now back asking for the same RAU that we're talking about now.
 If that's the way we're going to approach this neighborhood, my votes are going to make a lot of applicants unhappy because I don't want to do this one piece at a time and cobble it together. But I think this is as clear an indication as we've ever seen that we need to look at a broader area and make a unified decision. Thank you.
 And I hope that Mr. Jorgensen will go visit with some of those other applicants and that Ms. Phelan will go visit with some of her other neighbors and that we can start a broader discussion that gets everybody's interests out on the table. And maybe we can organize a neighborhood rezone on this that will save us from having to piecemeal it. Okay, anybody else?
 Certainly hold this for two weeks on third reading. Everybody okay? If you're not, let me know because I'm fixing to move on to the next item. Okay. Let's go on to number three. An ordinance to amend 96.02 unreasonable or excessive noise prohibited exceptions to extend to the city's noise regulations to all vehicles related businesses. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Thank you.
 So moved. Second. OK. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final read. Aaron, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 and ordinance amend section 9602 unreasonable or excessive noise prohibited exceptions to extend the city's noise regulations to all vehicle related businesses and of course at the last meeting we added bikes right all right uh sir do you have anything you want to add or no no use okay give up at you anything uh no nothing okay
 All right. Third and final reading. What questions do we have from the council as a whole? You think? I have one. I do have a question from, oh. I've got Theresa on the screen right now. Okay. Take Theresa then. Okay. Thanks, Kyle. I just wonder how often the noise regulation is enforced, the existing one that we have right now, and how difficult or easy it is to enforce that regulation.
 well we'll bring the chief right on up good evening mayor council um it's kind of a loaded question i guess it's from time to time it varies throughout my 27 years you know we've had uh different incidents that have come up you know we had the noise ordinance down dixon street so it was enforced quite heavily and then we had issues that came up about vehicles
 and sound amplification devices, and the booming bass from those vehicles, and we enforced it. And it just takes time to change that behavior. I don't feel like the city has any issues right now that are overwhelming for the police department to enforce. So I think we have a pretty good handle on the noise ordinance at this time. So to answer your question in short,
 It's rarely enforced at this time, and typically we gain compliance and we don't see repeat offenders by just through education, by our presence, through warnings. And so I think we can get a grasp on this. And, you know, as far as the trail system goes and the bicycles, you know, as long as we have the capacity and resources, I think we can also enforce that. And so I don't see this being a big issue for the police department at this time.
 So just to follow up, so you feel comfortable with enforcing the ordinance on the bike trails?
 I do feel comfortable at this time. I don't feel like we get an overwhelming amount of complaints. Certainly if those complaints increase at this particular time, we have one officer that's assigned to the trails full-time. Officer Clarissa Navarro, which most of you have met. We also have been able to utilize our school resource officers during this pandemic and been able to put them out on the trail system as well.
 We currently have four officers that are full time on that trail system. So, yes, throughout the summer, I don't think we'll have a problem. I think it'll be a good opportunity for the police department to educate our community members. OK, thank you, Chief. You're very welcome. All right. Any other questions, comments from the council? Yes. Just to follow up on the question about bicycle enforcement. I had a couple of people reach out to me and ask what that what that meant and what that experience would be like. Can you.
 It's kind of a new idea for somebody to be riding around with amplified music on their bike and get stopped for making too much noise. What does too much noise look like on that? I mean, is that measured at the trail from a property line on private property? Just kind of elaborate on how that's handled.
 Yeah, I'll do the best job I can. So from a vehicle, from a bicycle, the way that this ordinance is going to be written, it's from 30 feet. And so the way that the ordinance is written, it's plainly audible from 30 feet. And so simply the officer that's enforcing that, it would be a judgment call on what plainly audible is, so the loud bass.
 You know, if you can plainly hear voices or if you can plainly hear, you know, the lyrics of the music from 30 feet away, that's what that would look like. Okay. But not, oh, I hear somebody coming with music and then as they pass you, you can hear it and then it's gone. It's like the out in the distance is when that would kick in.
 No, I think we would use good common sense judgment. I think that we've proven that as a police department. And so it wouldn't be just someone merely riding a bicycle and listening to some music that wasn't disturbing, you know, beyond that 30 feet. So it'd be something that would be, Council Member Smith, I guess the best term I could use is something that would be egregious in nature. And so something that was certainly disturbing to others or complaint driven.
 as well. So we wouldn't actively be out there looking for that as your police department, but certainly if it was egregious and the officers were out there randomly patrolling and they heard that, then they would stop and try to educate those citizens. And then as you know, our records management system
 has the ability to issue warnings. And so we would know who our repeat offenders are. And so obviously, if they're not getting the message through warnings and through education, then we would have to step it up and issue the citations at that point. But that would be a last resort for the police department. Thank you. I think that'll make the folks that asked me some questions about it feel a lot better. You're welcome. Any other questions, Mr. Chief? Okay, okay, let's take some public comment on this.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute time limit. Unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, stay on the topic, which would be the excessive noise prohibition on all related businesses and bikes, and vehicle related businesses. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to comment on this? Who would like to be first?
 Okay, we're bringing back to the council. Any final comments from the council before we vote? Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Now let's move along to new business.
 All right. Number one, a resolution to name the baseball complex at Kessler Mountain Regional Park the Chambers Baseball Complex. Connie, I believe you have this. Yes, I do, Mayor. Good evening, City Council. Thank you, Council.
 In 2010, the Chambers Bank graciously donated 200 acres so that we could build a regional park that would have all of our sports, youth sports programs in one location, and also to have a 620 acre park that would have something for everybody.
 And then again in 2014, the Chambers Bank sold the city an additional 328 acres for the park at a fair and reasonable price.
 The bank then donated an additional 47.75 acres adjoining the park in which they banked parkland credits to offset future parkland credits for residential development in the Southwest Park Quadrant.
 In December of last year, City Council approved agreement with the Chambers Bank Chief Executive Officer, John Ed Chambers III, to donate the bank parkland credits worth over $2.25 million to the city.
 In lieu of this gracious donation made by the Chambers Bank throughout the years that have benefited Kessler Mountain Regional Park and our citizens, we are recommending to name the existing baseball complex Chambers Baseball Complex. This complex consists of the four existing fields, a concession and restroom building, and batting cages. Thank you.
 The proposed name was unanimously approved at our March meeting Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. It does meet the park naming policy, the platinum category for complex with a donation of 1 million up to 5 million for a 30 year period. Can I answer any questions for you? What questions do we have for Connie on this? I have a question. Sure, go ahead. Connie, is there anything time sensitive about this resolution?
 No, no, not at all. Okay, thank you. I would appreciate, although I know that it is maybe unexpected, I would appreciate having some more time with this particular item. I have a great appreciation for the contributions of Mr. Chambers, but I am also concerned that this is being done in an ad hoc manner and that we're missing an opportunity to consider a more strategic approach to our fundraising for our parks.
 And I'd like the chance to think about this a little bit more and how this opportunity may be. OK. Let's see. Anybody else? OK. So does the council want to hold it, what, Matthew, two weeks? MATTHEW WALKER HENSON, JR.: Thank you, Mayor. I would make a motion to table this to the following meeting. OK. Second. Do we have a second? Second. Thank you, Kyle. All right. We have a motion and a second to table for.
 two weeks uh i would like to take public comment before we vote on the table so does anybody that wants to speak on this tonight we're gonna we're gonna vote the table one way or the other but
 I want to take some public comment if there's anybody out there that wants to comment on it. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute limit. Unless City Council by a majority vote gives you more time or if City Council has questions for you, stay on the topic, which is renaming the baseball complex Kessler Mountain to the Chambers Baseball Complex. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Does anybody like to address us on this? Who would like to be first?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks Is there any discussion on that from the council? Yeah, I have a question for Matthew Matthew I want to just understand so what is the action item that will happen between now and the next Meeting and what are we looking forward to make sure that you feel that this is a better in a better done in a better manner
 I feel with your question, it's important for me to manage expectations. I'm not going to bring back an action item or a fundraising plan or anything that looks like that. I am, let me be explicit, asking for the courtesy of the council. Maybe some of you would appreciate the same courtesy to consider this a little longer. When I previewed my concern that this is being done in an ad hoc manner and that I thought there may be an opportunity to be more strategic here,
 What I mean to say or to learn more about as I talk with some of my colleagues over the next two weeks, I would like to know how other communities raise funds deliberately. We heard at the agenda session that we have not been raising funds in a deliberate manner, that we do not have a plan to raise funds for our parks in the future.
 And I think that Fayetteville deserves one. We're big enough to have one. We have probably been big enough to have one for quite some time. I'm also optimistic that we can save some money from our bond issue if we are able to have a deliberately created fundraising plan that we might be able to save some money from the bond issue and instead not spend it. I expect there also may be some potential benefits to our capital.
 Council Member Petty, thank you for those comments. I wanted to add that Connie and I have spoken recently since the agenda setting session that it is a unique opportunity right now with our bond programs that we would possibly want to at least identify some strategy for fundraising or naming rights. I know Connie does have some specific plans around the Yvonne Richardson Center program,
 program or that particular bond issuance. And so, Connie, if you want to speak to that right quick, then I think we will be more prepared in a couple of weeks to talk about some strategy for the bond projects, particularly not that we would necessarily have a sweeping parks fundraising plan by that time. But I did encourage Connie to think about, and she and I will together think about, the
 possibilities, particularly around bond projects. Connie, would you like to say a word about the Yvonne Richardson Center? Yes, we have been visiting with a potential donor who is very interested in adding on to the Yvonne Richardson Community Center.
 And we're in communication with them. As part of our bomb project, we are going, we're trying to get a schematic so that we can take back to them what exactly this might be.
 In the past, we did have a Friends of Parks group that met periodically, was trying to raise some funding to actually build the regional park. They didn't have, you know, a lot of success. They were starting, you know, to form as a group. We also at that time decided that there might be a possibility to hire...
 someone to help us fundraise. And we did put out an RFQ at that point in time. It's been a couple of years ago and the cost came in a little bit higher than what we had budget for. So that didn't happen. So that's kind of where we're at.
 And so we'll take the next couple of weeks to try to at least identify some potential opportunities in that area. Thank you, Council Member Petty. May I ask a brief follow-up question? What is the operating budget of the Yvonne Richardson Center, roughly? I don't need an exact number. $100,000, $200,000, $500,000?
 I see you're looking, you don't need to look it up, Connie. Here's the follow-up question. What do we think the yearly operating budget is gonna be for the regional park or for the cultural arts corridor or for the rest of the park system? And this isn't meant to be a call out, it's meant to highlight an opportunity that, this is a timely, this is very timely for us to consider this now. We're talking about spending,
 multiple millions of dollars in our parks program. And with the contributions of people like Mr. Chambers, we've been able to do that in the past. He deserves recognition. This isn't meant to be a criticism of the proposed naming, but it's a fact that we can potentially raise millions and we have...
 We have cast aside this opportunity in the past because we didn't want to pay the modest amount that would be required for someone to manage a fundraising program or to pursue those kinds of grants and gifts. We are in the middle of a pandemic that has been talked about many times tonight already to justify particular proposals and parliamentary actions. And I would ask the council and the administration
 Is it possible that there are entities in Northwest Arkansas who would like to be front and center in our exemplary park system on the day that they reopen? I think there are. Okay. Thank you.
 I should probably note that actually Kessler Mountain is a big fundraising project from day one. That's how we got the 200 acres given to us by Chambers Bank. It was a lot of hard work and that was a giant donation worth.
 at least $8 million. Then there was the purchase when we bought all the 328 acres and the Walton Family Foundation through work from the city. I think Jeremy Pate led the way on that, was able to secure a million and a half dollars for us so that we could buy that. And then the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association put in two or $300,000 in addition to help build this park.
 Even though we don't have a professional system set up and maybe that would be the right thing to do. I don't know. I wasn't involved in that. But I do know that we've actually raised money many times for our park system in Fayetteville, including the Yvonne Richardson Center. That land was donated by a local law firm.
 so that the Yvonne Richardson Center could be built. So we've worked many times, and that was way back when I was on the council. So it goes way back in history that the city has worked to try to get help with building its parks, and I think we've actually done a pretty good job here, especially recently. But that doesn't mean we can't have consultants that will do even better. So I think that you bring up a good point,
 Councilmember Petty that maybe we should look at something like that so that we could continue to get and maybe even increase the amount of help from the local community. Okay, anybody else? Okay we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Correct? Any final comments on that? Kerridge please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggin? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number two, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for cleaning and refurbishment of the ozone inspection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Any amount of
 thirty nine thousand three hundred dollars plus applicable taxes whereas in 2014 the nolan water resource recovery facility upgraded to ozone disinfection systems which include specialized equipment that the manufacturer must provide and service and whereas pinnacle ozone solutions llc is the sole manufacturer and service provider for the brand quaboc block
 I hope I'm saying that right, the ozone generators that are installed at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the quote from pinnacle ozone solutions llc for cleaning and refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system at the nolan water resource recovery facility in the amount of thirty nine thousand three hundred dollars plus any actual taxes okay tim
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. As Kit stated, the ozone was installed in 2014 as the final part of the treatment process where it goes to the White River. The quad block, as he mentioned, is the oxygen
 or the ozone generating portion of the system. Oxygen is passed through a reaction cell and it's shot with electricity. The oxygen molecule is broken down into oxygen atoms and of that you get ozone which is quite radical that reacts with the disease causing bacteria in the wastewater and destroys them.
 Like Kidd said, Pinnacle Ozone Solution is the sole manufacturer and service provider for this brand of ozone generators that are installed at the NOLA facility. This quote is for cleaning and refurbishing 12 ozone generators in the amount of $39,300. A quad block new is $9,800 a piece, so we're getting these quad blocks refurbished to as new condition for $3,275 a piece.
 this quote does include two trips to the plant to remove refurbish and reinstall the generators and this item was presented to the water and sewer committee on april 14th with a four to nothing vote to fork to the council for consideration for approval be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have for tim on this okay is there any public comment on this and
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five minute limit unless City Council by majority vote gives you more time or if City Council has questions for you. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance. I move we go to the suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Thank you, Teresa. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 In order to waive competitive bidding and approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for cleaning and refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $39,300 plus applicable taxes. And so? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Warren?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. I'd like to waive competitive bidding and approve a quote from Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for the cleaning and refurbishment of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $39,300 plus applicable taxes.
 Any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance waived compared to bidding into approved contract for Pinnacle Over Zone Solutions LLC
 for an initial term of one year with automatic renewals to provide regular services of the ozone disinfection system. It's an Olin water resource recovery facility in the amount of $24,920 per year.
 Whereas in 2014, the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility upgraded to ozone disinfection systems, which includes specialized equipment that the manufacturer must provide and service. And whereas Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC is the sole manufacturer and service provider for the brand WABLOC, the ozone generators that are installed in the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the mayor to sign a contract with pinnacle ozone solutions llc for initial term of one year with automatic renewals provide regular servicing of the ozone disinfection system and the nolan water resource recovery in the amount of 24 920 per year okay tim
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. What the utility is requesting is approval to enter into an equipment service agreement to perform corrective maintenance and preventive maintenance to the ozone generated equipment, which is not just the quad blocks now, it's also the rest of the electronics and the panels that the system is located inside of.
 Pinnacle will perform quarterly service visits. They will perform an annual service to items to the equipment, and they will perform biweekly remote monitoring to the system for a total cost of $24,920 per year. The purpose of the rationale of entering into this agreement, first of all, most of the expenses are determined in advance.
 It eliminates the day when the system goes down and the city would likely pay premium labor rates, rush charges on equipment or emergency rates versus the lower rates provided in the maintenance agreement. Also, with regular testing and inspections that are included in the preventive maintenance agreement, potential problems can be identified in advance. These issues can be resolved based on a schedule that makes sense for the city rather than dealing with costly downtime if an emergency occurs.
 And lastly, routine maintenance on the ozone equipment can increase the longevity of the ozone system itself. A technician can identify simple repair issues before they become serious and potentially threatening. With regular maintenance, it is less likely that the system will experience unexpected failures. With preventive maintenance agreement in place, we can be confident that the ozone system will continue to perform as designed.
 This item was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee on April the 14th with a unanimous vote to forward it to the council for your consideration for approval. Be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay, let's move along to public comment. All right, public comment. One turn to speak, five minute time limit. Unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you.
 say on the topic, which is bidding a contract for Pinnacle Ozone Solutions. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's wishes to council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Seconds. We have a motion to second to go to second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turke? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a contract with Pinnacle Ozone Solutions, LLC for an initial term of one year with automatic renewals to provide regular servicing of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $24,920 per year. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 And ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a contract with Pinnacle Ozone Solutions LLC for an initial term of one year with automatic renewals to provide regular servicing of the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility in the amount of $24,920 per year. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7035 for approximately 8.60 acres located at 618 North Rupert Road, RSA
 neighborhood services limited to be one institutional yeah you're named by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council the city of Fayetteville are so hereby changes his own classification the properties on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from NSL neighborhood services limited to be one institutional
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Mark. Yes, Mayor. This property is located north of Persimmon Street, just north of the Boys and Girls Club on the east side of Ruppel Road.
 It has some mega structures around them, the Boys and Girls Club, and those are electric offices are in this vacant property to the north. It is residential on the west side of Rupert Road. Surrounding zoning, neighborhood services limited, a larger parcel.
 This neighborhood services limited has an interesting history. It used to be a mixed use planned development district that expired and the neighborhood services limited was substituted for something that fit the master plan fairly closely. The boys and girls club is zoned R80. It has a conditional use permit granted in 2004.
 for the boys and girls club and then the parkland is p1 around it and it's a the residential neighborhood across rupal is a planned zoning district it's uh designated as residential neighborhood in the 2040 plan uh the infield score is actually nine it is in the um the weddington area plan which gives it an extra score and it's near a park
 The issues that were debated, this is an appeal from the Planning Commission. They recommended, they did not approve it, so it's appealed. The Planning Commission was interested in finding a zoning district that would require the building to be orientated to the street. The P1 district allows parking between the building and the street.
 uh city attorney sent you a memo regarding legal issues i'll let him address that um with that uh staff recommends approval of the p1 request um we are we're very much uh cognizant of the special considerations that the constitution and federal law grants uh churches
 And we're also, we think from a context specific standpoint, the other structures around that area kind of sets already existing conditions. Also the proposal in their tent letter is for a 40,000 square foot church with ample parking, perhaps two,
 more parking than our ordinance suggests. They're actually going to the Planning Commission to ask for extra parking. So they're suggesting the parking be located both in front and the back of the building. With that, I believe the applicant is present. If you have questions for him, I'd also be happy to answer any questions. Yes, go ahead. We have questions for Gar.
 I have a brief question for Garner. Sure. Thank you, Mayor. Garner, you mentioned two things that caught my attention. The first was you mentioned the particular legal issues and constitutional issues that have been cited by our city attorney in several memos over the years. It seems like this played a major part in the consideration of the staff recommendation for P1.
 Do you think that it's a possibility that the staff would have made a different recommendation if the loopholes in Kitt's memo had been previously addressed? I'm not sure that that makes all that much difference. I think the constitutional and federal law would still be.
 direct you to not consider church as a conditional use, which the present district does. Neighborhood services limited only allows it as a conditional use. A question that we debated among ourselves on the staff level and we think it's a really close call was whether we could suggest community services
 which would require the building to be oriented to the street, but it would be a use by right as an alternative. And I think that's certainly an option you have in front of you, but I think the city attorney feels that even that has issues. Thank you, Garner. I appreciate that explanation, especially the nuance of the conditional use versus use by right.
 For me, it doesn't eliminate the concerns that the city attorney has raised, but it does give me hope that we maybe have a legislative solution so that we don't have to, that we aren't forced to give up our policy and planning goals on items like this in the future. The second question I had for you, the second thing you said that caught my attention was you said that the
 Well, you said the proposed rezoning was in part justified by the existing conditions on the site to the south. And I can see on the screen here why that determination is rational. But it does beg a question for me. When does it stop? We have goals that are clearly aligned towards walkability, safer traffic speeds.
 et cetera, et cetera. And I have a concern that if we use existing conditions as justifications, that there isn't an end in sight to the mistakes that we've made in the past. So is that a justification that we intend to rely on predominantly, or is it the legal issue that we're relying on predominantly?
 i think it's both uh i think the we also looked at what was requested which is a large church and i think it's a debatable question of whether that church would would add the interest and amenities that would soften the walkability of the sidewalk if it were brought up to
 the street and to say they couldn't develop the parcel as a church I think would put us on kind of odd position in terms of the legal issues. So the assumption was that the zoning should allow a church some way
 And the question then becomes, is it better with some parking in front of it or is it better to bring that large mega structure up to the street? You're not gonna get the interesting storefronts with lots of windows and entrances and people coming and going that would add to the walkability anyway. Thank you. There were, I need to follow up on, on that last part that you said,
 What I'm worried about is that the next applicant will be able to say, I should be able to put a big box here or a strip mall here because it matches the conditions to the south and that's the same argument that was justified tonight. So I have a concern about that, but that's a long term concern. The thing that I think is most important here is what you got to at the end and what seems to be implied, and as I've read, we seem to be saying or concluding
 that if a religious institution identifies as a piece of property, they have the right to put their church on it. And that may be so, I'm not arguing that one way or the other. However, it means if that's the case, that any parcel in any neighborhood, in any location in this city could be identified by a church and rezoned to this zone under the present code language.
 That to me seems like a gaping, that seems to me like something that we have overlooked. Yeah, that's a valid point. The list of uses in the P1 district are very, very limited. Public uses, schools, and churches. Anything else, Matthew? No, Mayor, thank you. Okay, anybody else have any questions for Garth? Okay, is the applicant here? Yes, sir. Excuse me, yes, I am.
 Would you introduce yourself please? Yes. I'm Dennis Blind with Olson and I'm representing the applicant tonight, Ripple Road LLC. Can I make a few comments? Sure. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate the time tonight. Just to bring it to be, on March 23rd, the Fayetteville Planning Commission denied our request to rezone from Neighborhood Service Limited to P1 Institutional.
 And in accordance to the Unified Development Ordinance of the City of Fayetteville, we're appealing that decision. We contend that it's in error and we're really appreciative of the opportunity to speak with the City Council tonight. Our appeal is based on a few things. The church is, the applicant is a church member
 related organization and their ministry over the past 20 years has grown to 35 churches in 11 states
 They've had successful growth and I can attest personally to the applicants' meticulous data collection and analysis that they do in their growth strategies. They're as meticulous as any national retailer or franchise. They're very detailed, very methodical.
 One of their growth strategies when they go into a new market, a new community, is if there is a zoning district within that community that allows churches as a permitted use, I mean, that's a goal. They would like to rezone to that. They are in many locations where they are a conditional use. I mean, that's a given as well.
 In Fayetteville, you have P1 institutional where churches are a permitted use. So that was their goal to look at that and say, okay, well, let's see how we can make this work. Their location that they desire is there on Rupert Road, 8.6 acres. It's the NSL zoning. We met and talked.
 communicate with the planning staff considerably and over numerous times to see if we could make this NSL work for their church facility. As I said, it's about 40,000 square feet. They have developed over the years a very successful floor plan that works for their church operations and
 And I guess it boils down when we looked at trying to shift the building, the facility to the build to zone. It was totally contrary to their successful footprint, which is a dual entry building. We have parking in front, parking in back. And so we took a hard look at that and it just wasn't going to work.
 to get the inflow and outflow of attendees at the church services, not only in the building itself, but also on the site. They have the auditorium seats, 730 folks. They have five services on a Sunday. So they've got a lot of folks coming and going and trying to have everything, placing the building at the front with one major entry point.
 would be kind of a choke point. It would also cause more congestion within the traffic circulation in and out of the site and within the parking lot itself. So with that, we had concerns about the aesthetics and the function of the building. It is a larger building. It'd be right up at the build two zone. We were concerned about its scale to the residential across the street from us.
 They do have a standard template on their architecture. It's a church look. They have that aesthetic going. When you see them around in the different locations, you can tell, oh, that's their church, and it is a church. Again, they've developed the dual entry footprint that works very, very well for them to get folks safely, efficiently, in and out of the building and the site to make it work.
 Our appeal is also based on the Planning Commission staff's recommendation of approval, and also our appeal is in direct relevance to the City Attorney's Department correspondence back in April of 2018.
 So for us, for their strategy and a successful church operations that they have that's based on their 35 other locations and more that they're under construction with now across the area. They prefer the P1 zoning so they can have the building in the front or have the parking in the front and the back, have the building kind of centrally located in line with the Boys Club, Boys and Girls Club to our south.
 and that would work out very well for them. And they're looking forward to having their church here in Fayetteville. With that, I'll be glad to answer any questions. What questions does the council have for the applicant? Mayor, I have a question. You said you did look at how the building would fit the land if it were moved up closer to the street in one of our farm-based zones with the build-to. Do you have
 Those kinds of visuals that you could you could share with us just so we could compare our options. No, not not for the presentation tonight. We just did some site plans. Again, they don't have contextual style built for this type of situation. We just had some site plans that we did putting it at the building line. And then the concerns of trying to get people in and out of the building safely and efficiently was,
 with no really front door, it'd be up at Ruppel Road, but the front would really be facing the back. So, and we looked at other strategies and the way the auditorium works and the seating, it was just contrary to what, and detrimental to their successful operations they've developed over there.
 I don't want to get into the specifics of development. I think Council Member Marsh pointed out in our earlier reasoning that that's not something we're allowed to consider at the land use stage. I just was trying to imagine what the best, not the best and worst case, the extreme scenarios in the different zoning areas that we have. Sometimes it's useful to look at what the possibilities are and what those boundaries are. And I'm just wondering if you're
 or space study had anything we could benefit from. Thank you, I appreciate it. Okay, any other questions? Okay, let's get some public comment. All right, everyone gets one turn to speak, five minute time limit, unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. But city council has questions for you. Stay on the topic, which is the rezoning.
 on Rupert Road. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Mayor, I see Will Dockery. Okay, go ahead Will.
 Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I have no concerns about what would be built at that location. Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Will Dockery. My address is 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. This building would be within like half a block of where I live. I'm also the president of the homeowners association there, but I speak for myself.
 With all that out of the way, I have no concerns about what would be built at the location. I do have concerns about build-to lines, however. Build-to lines are important, especially when it comes to walkability for a neighborhood. Currently, that stretch of Ruffles is one of our best new walkable areas. That is in large part because the houses and the majority of buildings are being built up close to the sidewalk, just like in the historic areas of Fayetteville.
 I understand that the current zoning change is because the church would like to be built there and that they may argue that a church building isn't typically built that close to a property line. I would say however that the historical areas and downtown areas both of which are highly walkable and in fact are kind of what we're trying to copy over here where I live feature a plethora of churches that have built two lines that are even closer than the 10-foot build two line. The First Baptist Church comes to mind as an excellent example in college.
 Tonight's question is to change the zoning from NSL to P1. I'm asking you to vote no on that unless there could be a conditional added
 to increase that build to make that build to line closer. And that way, whatever is built there will still add to the walkability of the neighborhood. And in fact, if something were to change, that way the building doesn't have to necessarily be torn down if the church decides to move at some point 50 to 100 years down the road. It also would not create a precedent that others can point to for exceptions along Ruppel in the future. And in fact, that other people have already asked for exceptions to Ruppel.
 Let's not think about the functionality of the street based on traffic of one day a week, but the rest of the seven, the rest of that week and how it affects the walkability of the neighborhood. So please keep the built-to lines in and around my neighborhood. They're what makes this area an important growing community and city node. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council?
 or what discussion is there among accounts mayor i think the uh the applicant in his explanation hit exactly on the thing that bothers me most about this and it is the scale of that building to the street i i
 I don't know what church this is, and I wish I didn't know that it was a church at all, because I understand the constitutional complications that come with us considering anything discretionary relating to religious institutions.
 I think the city attorney pointed out in his memo quite clearly that the fact that we have churches as a conditional use in so many of our zones is a problem. It's one that I hope that I can work with planning staff to propose changes to. But in the meantime, I'm looking at a building that I don't feel like fits in with this neighborhood. And so I guess maybe I should have asked Garner this earlier, but I'm just sort of, you know,
 I'm compiling my thoughts now. This was described as a 40,000 square foot building and the current zoning NSL would cap its most intense use at 3000 square feet. So that's a 13 and a third factor increase over what's currently there. And so I'm curious if, go ahead.
 Councilman Smith, it does have a 3,000 foot cap. That applies to use group 12A, which is the neighborhood services and retail and office uses that are allowed in that district. If they were to come in for conditional use permit for a church, or if they were to develop
 So if you have a residential, which is also allowed, that cap wouldn't apply. Okay. So all of the other by right uses in that zone are residential. Or home occupation. Accessory dwelling units.
 A by right use in the current district is 3,000 square feet. And here we're looking at 13 times that. If somebody came in and wanted to build a 40,000 square foot warehouse or a commercial store, they would have to apply for a rezoning or conditional use permit of some sort to have that cap relief. Would staff have recommended in favor of some
 I don't know exactly what secular. Sorry, it's a big hypothetical. The process can't be used to weigh the cap. It only can be used to ask the Planning Commission to approve uses that are under the conditional use column, which is the column after the permitted uses. So, I don't know exactly what the use is.
 And those do not have a cap on it, Council Member Smith. They don't have the 3,000 square foot. Let me modify my hypothetical then to something I think will be more straightforward. If they were asking for a rezoning to community services or urban thoroughfare for a 40,000 square foot comparably sized building such as a
 a store or a warehouse or a factory? Would we be inclined to recommend in favor of a rezoning that would allow something of that size if it were a different use? I'm not aware of any guidelines that says the community services district or the UT district prohibits larger structures.
 you can have but they would allow it i guess i'm getting it yeah i'm looking at other non-religious ways that we might encounter this situation to see in a non-religious setting if this is a decision i'm looking for the most neutral um question like an office building or something like that like an office building yeah uh i don't think that would weigh into our uh our recommendation okay
 Because the district doesn't have a limitation on it. That community services or UT, neighborhood services, general neighborhood services limited have billing size limitations. Right. But in the change of zoning, that's a pretty massive change. And that's sort of what bugs me here is that we've got,
 we change zonings all the time but usually it's a it's an incremental step and not a factor of 13 on a on a street frontage so um i'm still trying to wrap my my head around some of that and i hope that we're going to hold this here tonight and and give us some more time to think about it okay any other questions comments or does the council wish to hold it on this reading or are you what do you all want to do i'd like to hold it where it is okay
 Anybody in disagreement with that? Let's do that. MR. Here, this is Matthew. I am philosophic with the format that is being requested, but I do think the legal issues are clear and I would be in favor of dispensing with this item. MR. Okay. So you're ready to vote then, Matthew? Is that what I hear? MR. That's correct, Mayor, speaking for myself. MR. Okay. Well, then is there a motion to go to the second reading? Let's do that.
 Second. Well, we didn't get a motion. Matthew, did you make a motion to go to the second reading? Sure. We'll do it in reverse. I'll make the motion. All righty, then. I'm sorry. I can't see everybody. So, all right. Matthew, you made a motion to go to the second reading. And Sonia, you seconded that, correct? Yes. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes.
 I think that's six votes, so that passed. Okay. And or, you want me to go ahead and read it? Yes, please. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RCN 20-7035 for approximately 8.6 acres located at 618 North Rupert Road from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to P1 Institutional. Okay. Okay.
 Mayor, before somebody makes a motion to go on, we're still talking about the P1 zoning. And if we're going to look for a by right zone for this, I would prefer the community services zoning. Excuse me. I think that that is better in compliance with our community design goals and the other uses in it are...
 generally compatible if we're willing to go to larger businesses with what we're expecting from this area anyway so I'm not sure how since this is an appeal of a denial how to make a motion to amend it I can have some procedural assistance with that I would appreciate it sure yes you certainly can make a motion to amend the ordinance
 It sounds like we are favorable to passing this, and I definitely don't want to leave them in a zone where they are conditional use, because I don't believe that that's a discretion that the Planning Commission needs to be saddled with. So I move that we amend the ordinance to use the community services zoning instead of P1. So you make an amendment to go to the community services zone? Yes, Mayor, that's correct.
 Okay, do we have second on that? I'll second that Okay So we have an amendment to go to CS Okay, what discussion do we have on that? I guess we'll back it up here. I'm mr. Mayor. I'd like to say that certainly that is not as problematic and dangerous as where this Planning Commission left it but I still believe it is an unreasonably dangerous for us to do that and
 I think I agree with what Councilmember Petty said when he said that in this particular case the law is pretty clear. To answer some other comments that were made, this does not necessarily mean that if there was another entity that came in that was a secular entity that we would be under as much danger because they won't have the federal law relupa or the free expression of the law
 First Amendment rights, which had been strengthened in recent past by the Supreme Court. So my recommendation still as a city attorney is that it would be much safer in this particular situation to grant the only zoning district that we have that is specially designed for large institutions and religious-based facilities.
 I think that we can modify our zoning code and maybe prevent some problems in the future. But in this particular case, it's too late to try to do that. And so my recommendation still is, is that I agree with the planning department's recommendation that this be rezoned to P1. Okay. All right. What other discussion do we have on the amendment from the council? Mayor, I'd like to share a few thoughts. Okay.
 I want to just be super clear that I, this is one of those kinds of situations that I have just really grown to detest over, I think I've seen something like a half dozen of these since I was first elected, where the argument is exactly the same in every single case. And I confess to becoming a little bit fed up that some polls, which seem simple, haven't been closed in the meantime.
 I desperately want to support a change in this ordinance to anything like community services.
 But I'm having some trouble myself justifying it. And I'm open to being convinced. I want to make that really clear. So I'm just trying to be very transparent now. And with this motion on the table, I would also say that I am not over eager to vote tonight. But I am still struggling with the fact that
 that we have a zoning designation on the books that in its own definition says it is for religious institutions. And if that one thing was not the case on this particular item, I feel as though I would have a lot more freedom to support something else and to advocate for something else. But I feel like our city attorney's advice has been
 and very true. We have, because the way this definition is written, there is in my review, no way to defend against an argument
 that may be made against us that says we ignored what our own codes already say. I'm eager to fix that. I have already asked for that legislation to be drafted so that this doesn't happen again and
 Some people might say we should change it now, but in my opinion, we should proceed with applications as they were filed with the code that was in place whenever they were filed because fair is fair.
 I said I'm open to other arguments and I truly am desperate for something else because I think the outcomes associated with this zone are particularly bad for our city. But I feel like our hands are tied until our own code has been changed. Well, I want to...
 correct your quotation of the code there uh matthew it doesn't actually say religious institutions it says church-related organizations i believe is the wording but it mentions churches it does not mention synagogues mosques temples or monasteries or any other sort of religious gathering hall our our our code's religious language is already grossly biased um
 towards certain sects and not others. We do a pretty good job of modifying our codes whenever they are out of compliance with state law or the constitution, whether that be Second Amendment policies or other issues. I'm a little disappointed that this one has been allowed to sit on the books in that form for so long without,
 especially as this has been raised numerous times without that built-in bias being addressed. I hope we will do that very soon, but in the meantime, we've got a lasting land use choice in front of us. And I appreciate the conservative interpretation that keeps us out of trouble from our city attorney. That's valuable.
 In this situation, though, I am unaware of any religious institution outside of perhaps a Las Vegas drive-thru wedding chapel that would be able to point to or be inclined to point to the position of their parking as a central tenet of their faith. I just have a hard time believing that anyone with...
 a lifetime of common sense exposure to faith in this country is going to look at that and say that that is an imposition on their core tenets of faith, especially when, as Will pointed out in his public comment, we already have a wealth of examples in town,
 where religious institutions are already in compliance with what this zone would be asking of them. And so I find that risk, I suppose, credible from the city attorney's interpretation, but I think the level of that risk is overstated. Okay, anybody else? All right, let's take some public comment on this amendment.
 to change the zoning to CS. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute time limit, unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you, stay on the topic. The topic is that there's a motion to change the zoning from P1 to CS.
 So, I don't want any, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Will Dockery. Okay, go ahead. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. Um.
 Sorry about that. As to the amendment, I kind of want to echo Matthew Petty's things, but also at the same time, I would prefer this zoning designation. And I think a lot of people in our neighborhood would as well. It fits more in the character of the neighborhood. We keep going to the bat in other areas of the town.
 um i don't see how it's an issue of religious freedom because it really is not a tenet of your faith based on where a parking lot is and furthermore um did we not just have the same issue in early 2019 with a church rezone on crossover near the north side of town so i'm a little confused on that and um i mean there are other towns in our in our area like farmington that have the churches are built right up to the right up to the
 The bill to line and that's farming and we know how much more car centric their design and so we're trying to build a city that has walkability and yet we're saying that that it's not a possibility, even though this zone is designed the zone for the amendment is designed.
 to have that as an option. So I really don't care what is built there. It could be a five-story monolith, but it really needs to be up to that built-to line because that makes a huge difference in walkability. And that is something we keep focusing on and harping on. It could be a factory for all I care, but it needs to be up there.
 with the walkability zones. And I realized that this is a church, but like I would be, I don't really care what is built in that lot across in my neighborhood, but it really needs to add to the walkability. And we already made that mistake with the boys club, boys and girls club. And we've already made that, we've already given a conditional use permit to the RV thing down the street. And now we're saying, we're just gonna keep doing it here. Thank you. Okay.
 Anyone else like to address this from the public on the amendment? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Any other discussion on the amendment? Okay, we have a motion second to change the zoning to CS. If there's not any other comment, Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk?
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. OK, so it has been amended to CS. Who do you have that was voting yes?
 The record shows that Smith made the motion, Marsh seconded the motion, Marsh voted yes, Kenyon voted no, Petty voted yes, Scroggins voted yes, Bunch voted yes, Turk voted no, Smith voted yes, Gutierrez voted no. And is that correct, City Council, that was your vote? Correct. Yes. Yes. All right. Okay, so we bring the amended ordinance back to the council.
 Okay. So we're on the third and final reading. I think we're on the second. I think we're on the second. So I would like to hold it here. I would also like to hold it here. This is a big change. We need the public to understand what's going on and be informed. Okay. I have a question for the city attorney again, by changing this,
 Are you saying that we're at higher risk or lower risk or equal risk for any legal action? Well, I'll say that neighborhood service is limited, which only allows a church to be built by conditional use without any question, would be a very, very dangerous position to be in. I still think the city is in a very dangerous position by moving to...
 rezone this property, not what the church-related organization has requested, but instead to a form-based district which their applicant has said will not work for their religious facility. And so we have a problem not only for the church, but as I pointed out in my memo, that if the church decides that they can't build here,
 then this property of 8.6 acres, which has lain fallow for almost 20 years waiting for someone to buy it and develop on it, the sale very well might not go through. And so we stand in danger from the property owner for suing us for lost profits and damages because of this particular rezoning.
 And of course, we still will be in danger from the church because what has been argued here by the public and others is that because of aesthetic reasons, walkability, that the church is going to be denied the zoning district that is designed for it in our code.
 And aesthetics can have some significance, but they will never pass a strict scrutiny test, which we very well might be faced with by the courts in this. And so we do face issues both for damages, but also for attorney's fees in this particular case.
 So I'm still recommending against that, as I already said. It's not as bad as NSL, but it's still, in my opinion, too much for risk to take, especially in this time when obviously the city's revenue is going down.
 And we don't know when this COVID pandemic is going to be over enough so that the recession might be alleviated. So this is a particularly dangerous time to roll the dice and see whether or not we can win. So in regards to that, I think that we do need to hold it so there can be discussion about the risk, at least from my point of view. I think that's a very good idea.
 I would concur with that, but there's two points from what Kit just said that I'd like to address and ask about. I think that we have, you mentioned that it's aesthetics, and I think we have talked about this numerous times in past instances, that this is not
 I think this is solely an aesthetics issue, but this is actually a public health and safety concern when we talk about walkability, the neighborhood environment, and the safety of pedestrians around swiftly moving vehicles. And I believe your memo asked for peer-reviewed data, of which I think there is plenty available to support studies on this, on the,
 Sorry, I just lost the end of my sentence there. Studies on the built environment. And the second, I'm curious about the exposure that you're warning us of to a lawsuit from the current landowner. Is it your position, Kit, that any landowner can go write a contract contingent on our action without consulting us first and then sue us for not taking the action that they committed us to?
 I think there's a danger that we could get sued. I'm not going to give advice to the landowner or say what his duties are. Obviously, many of the times when a property is requested to be rezoned,
 From its current zoning, the contract to purchase is contingent upon the zoning. As long as we have the right to not zone what the applicant asks, then there's no problem with whether or not we approve the zoning. But if we are somehow violating the right of the purchaser to zone the property as we should, or if they can...
 established to a jury satisfaction that we should have zoned it that way, then yes, we could have some damages for not acting as they believe we legally would be required to do. Does the current landowner have a religious liberties right to demand P1 zoning? No.
 I don't know who the original, who the current landowner is. I think that that would not be his argument, that that would be the church's argument. His argument would be that because we did not have the legal right to refuse to zone as the church had requested,
 And therefore, he lost his sale. I think that he could make that argument. Obviously, I'll do everything I can to try to defend the city, but that certainly is a danger that I see. And I can. And so as city attorney, I've tried to keep us out of trouble all these years and
 rather than waiting to see if trouble's gonna land on my doorstep without any warning. So you have my warning, you may discount it if you please. I appreciate the warning and I'm not fishing for trouble, but with an argument that takes that many steps of contingencies, I think I have every faith in your ability to defend against it. Mayor, I have one brief additional comment. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to point out that as a matter of the record that has already been established tonight, that the applicant has already demonstrated site plans wherein which the needs of their client could be met, but has elected to pursue a different site plan because the applicant has a desire to use the exact same building that is used in 35 other cities. Okay. So we're going to...
 Unless there is someone that wishes not to, I'm going to leave it here on the third reading or the second reading for two weeks. And then we'll see where it all rolls. All right. Moving along to number five.
 An ordinary zone that property described was only petitioned RZN 20-7025 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 1318 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 be it ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby changes his own classification the property shown on the map exhibit a and a legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from nc neighborhood conservation to r iu residential intermediate urban section two that the city council city of fable arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Okay This one's located between Ella and 13th Street across the street from Walker Park Surrounding zoning its RIU to the south and they read conservation The other size and p1 for the park across the street It is in the Walker Park neighborhood plan planning area the infield score is seven
 The no issues were identified at the Planning Commission hearing, and we haven't heard any opposition to this request, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the advocate is Justin Cope tonight, if you have questions for me or him. Okay. Does Council have any questions for Garner? Okay. Mr. Cope? No. Okay.
 we have alan reed okay all right uh the applicant obviously is not here so and we don't have any questions for garner so let's take some public comment all right everybody gets one turn to speak there's five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on the topic which is a rezoning
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Alan Reed is up. Hey, Mr. Reed. Yes, can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? My name is Alan Reed. I'm here representing Laura Hoffman on this rezoning petition. And we pretty much concur with everything staff has presented to you. And if you have any questions, I'll try to answer them to the best of my ability. Okay, so you're representing the actor.
 Yes, Justin Cope was going to take it, but he had to leave. So our firm is actually the firm that was hired to help Laurel. All right. Then does the council have any questions for Mr. Reed as the applicant, representing the applicant? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I mean, we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Did we do public comment? Yes. I'll second that. Well, hang on just a second, Mark.
 Mr. Reed, what's the public comment? Did you have anybody else that wanted to speak? Okay. All right. So we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 in orange to rezone that property's cried and rezoning petition rcm 20-7025 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 1318 south college avenue from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban rules and go to the third and final reading i'll second that we have a motion second to go to the third and final week here which please call them marsh yes kenyon yes yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZM 20-7025 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 1318 South College Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Any final comments from the council? I have a quick comment.
 I did speak to Garner about this, that we talked about trying to figure out another similar to the previous item, a neighborhood zoning consideration so that we're not doing one offs. And we both agreed that right now is not the best time, but we hope that in the near future when things kind of normalize, we will.
 consider that. So I just want to know that's kind of coming up hopefully in the future. So thanks to Gardner for considering that. So we don't see this same type of pattern that we have been seeing. Okay, any other final comments? Chair, would you please tell them? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turf?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-7026 for approximately 0.15 years.
 acres located at 1023 South Washington Avenue from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU residential intermediate urban It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes on classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban and
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs out hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Gardner. Yes, Mayor. Very similar to the previous request. This one's on Washington between 10th and 11th Street. Surrounding zoning is RSF 18 to the west and then neighborhood conservation adjacent
 It is also the Walker neighborhood plan. The infield score is also seven. No issues were identified so far at planning commission hearing or by our staff and planning commission staff recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions. And I believe Mr. Reid is also representing the applicant on this. Okay, is there any questions for Gar?
 Okay, Mr. Reed, you're representing the applicant again. Are you there? Yes, this is Alan Reed again. Once again, representing Laurel Hoffman on her rezoning request, and I'll be glad to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. Is there any questions for Mr. Reed? Okay, let's take some public comment. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. There's five minutes time limit. The City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time.
 city council has questions for you stay on topic which is a is a rezoning no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first all right I'm gonna bring back to the council what's wishes the council I mean it's been the rules and go to the second reading I'll second that March March yes yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7026 for approximately .15 acres located at 1023 South Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay, what's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 at northern to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 20-70 26 for approximately 0.15 acres located at 1023 south washington avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council this is my neighborhood and i support infield in my neighborhood
 And I've seen a lot of great examples of R.I.U. and what people are doing. So I'm excited to continue to see a lot of new and smaller optional, more options on housing in this neighborhood. I live in one of the newer ones that's over here. So this is just about one block. The other one was about two blocks away. So excited to see this project. Very good. Anything else? No.
 Kerowitz, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. McIntyre? Yes. Okay, number seven. An ordinance to approve vacation 20-742 for property located at 815 South School Avenue to vacate portions of rights-of-way
 and a general utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following prescribed portions of rights away and easement are not required for corporate purposes.
 now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the portions of rights of way and general utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section two that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached exhibit a to playing department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk
 And Section 3 is vacation approval subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner's developer's expense. Yes, Mayor. This is a continuation of the redevelopment of the Farmer's Co-op. The applicant acquired the property through the South.
 and removed the structure and now is continuing to develop that redevelop that site it has this strange cobweb of easements and rights away initially the applicant wanted to vacate the portion that is in the rdot right away but that transaction is not yet complete so
 They dropped its outline in red. Unlike what I told you at the agenda session, it still needs to say Eastmont's end rights away because there's a rights away also here. It's a technicality. But Planning Commission staff recommend approval. Okay. Any questions for Garner on this? Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I am Lawrence Finn, representing Specialized Real Estate Group.
 I don't really have anything to add. I want to thank staff for their work on this application. As Garner said, it's a bit of a hornet's nest of right-of-ways and easements, and we're trying to just do some housekeeping to clean it up so that we can advance the Farmers' Co-op.
 So I'm here to answer any questions. And I do really want to thank the mayor and council for keeping the business of the city moving forward. These are some pretty troubled times, and thank you all for your civic contribution. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. What questions do we have to ask? Okay, let's see.
 who is listening let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak there's five minutes time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or incident council has questions for you stay on the topic with vacation uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes to council i mean we've been the rules and go to the second reading i'll second i'll second that
 Okay, we got a motion and second go to the second meeting. Marge? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 And in order to approve BIC 20-7042 for property located at 815 South School Avenue to vacate portions of rights-of-way and a general utility easement. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Who's called the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An order is approved of the AC 20-7042 for property located 815 South School Avenue to vacate portions of rights-of-way and a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 turk yes smith yes gutierrez yes okay thank you all number eight an ordinance away form competitive bidding and to approve cost share agreement with stefan stephan and catherine shark and fourth street and drains improvements along store avenue
 with a refund any amount not to exceed 36 696.63 to be paid by the city of edward for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough personality of the impact of the develop kit
 Whereas Stefan and Catherine Sarkin are developing six new single-family residential homes along the west side of Storer Avenue, which pursuant to Code Section 171.1.3 of the Unified Development Code requires the installation of sidewalks.
 And whereas the City Engineering Division recommends several additional improvements, including new trench drainage, new piping to convey water underground, and new curb and gutters, which would exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact.
 and whereas the city proposes to enter into an agreement with the sarkens to refund an amount of up to thirty six thousand six hundred ninety six dollars and sixty three cents which represents the estimated cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact and whereas allowing the sarkens to utilize their own contractor who will be on site installing the sidewalk for the additional improvements will allow the city to achieve significant savings
 now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council is city of fable arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and this
 Therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement for Stephan and Catherine Sarkin for street and drainage improvements along store Avenue with a refund in the amount not to exceed 36,696 dollars and 63 cents to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development Okay, Chris
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is a project of six single-family homes that were approved back in October. There were two single-family homes previously and through the development lot split process, they've created six lots. Developments of this type are required to build sidewalk as part of their project.
 But because of the streetscape, the condition of the street, there was no curb and gutter, and it was just a ditch section. It made more sense to try to improve the streetscape, put in the storm drainage, put in the curb and gutter, and create a city street there that meets current standards.
 So we worked with the developers to basically pay 50-50 cost share for the work on their site. So they're paying for 50% of all the storm drain and curb and gutter and sidewalk, and the city's paying the other 50%. We have a little bit of work off-site to...
 extend the improvements up to the intersection that the developer would not be required to do. So that's why our percentage is slightly higher at $36,000 than the developer. But this developer could have put in the sidewalk as part of the development without doing this additional work, but then we would have been left with a ditch that's difficult to maintain. And so overall, this gives a much better product for the city.
 answer any questions what questions we have Chris on this okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn speak there's five minutes time limit less City Council by majority vote gives you more time or the City Council has questions for you stay on topic which is a cost share agreement yes and no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's wishes the council? This is an ordinance. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 In order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Stephan and Catherine Sarkin for street and drainage improvements along Storer Avenue with refund in an amount not to exceed $36,696.63 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development. And so. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have motion and second to go to the third and final reading.
 which police called roe marsh yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggen yes bunch bunch yes turk yes smith yes guitaras yes
 in order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with stephen and catherine sarkin for street and drainage improvements along store avenue with a refund in an amount not to exceed 36 696.63 to be paid by the city of fable for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development in final comments with council
 I just want to say thanks to Stefan and Catherine for the cost share for this improvement. We definitely don't like runoff going into people's homes and property, so I think this is a great cost share. OK, anybody else? Then would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 smith yes gutierrez yes okay thank you all number nine an orange to amend 72.58 off-street parking facilities rules and rights to authorize the mayor to prohibit non-electric vehicles from parking in designated electric vehicle charging parking spaces
 all city parking facilities whereas the current language in section 72 5 8 n of the city code authorizes the parking manager to prohibit all non electric vehicles from parking in designated electric vehicle charging spaces but only in parking lot one across from City Hall on Mountain Street where the first charging stations were installed in a city parking lot
 And whereas the sustainability division is working to expand the number of electric vehicle charging stations to other city parking facilities. And it is important to ensure these parking spaces are reserved for electric vehicles that need to use the charging stations. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, who by repeals section 72.58 of the Fayetteville Code and annex a new section 72.58 as follows, electric vehicle charging stations. The mayor is authorized to designate electrical vehicle charging station parking spaces at city parking facilities to prohibit all non-electric vehicles from parking in these spaces.
 The owner or operator of an electric vehicle shall only park in this space while charging the vehicle's battery and shall pay normal parking rates while parked in this space. Okay. Mayor. Mayor and council, good evening. I want to make sure, give me a thumbs up if you can hear me.
 We're good. I'm good. All right, good deal. As you are probably aware, the sustainability department has been working hard to implement the energy action plan since its adoption in early 2018 and one of the ways we're working to do that is by expanding the number of electric vehicle charging stations in parking spaces in Fayetteville and that effort is as part of
 part of trying to reduce vehicle emissions in the transportation sector. We do have one electric vehicle charging station on a city parking lot in the lot across the street from City Hall right now. It's a level two charging station that has two ports on it. It takes, depending on the vehicle,
 depending on how depleted the battery is in a vehicle, it might take anywhere between four and six hours to fully charge the battery on that vehicle. We are currently working with a company out of Tulsa by the name of Francis Renewables to install a level three charging station, which is one of the fast chargers, and then another level two charging station at the Spring Street parking deck.
 And as part of trying to do that, we are recommending the current ordinance change that's before you. And the reason the ordinance change is necessary is because the ordinance in the parking section of the code right now allows for the parking division to enforce electric vehicle only parking in the parking spaces that we have in the lot across the street from City Hall, but doesn't allow us.
 does not allow the mayor the flexibility to expand the implementation of those electric vehicle only parking spaces to other lots and facilities across our downtown area. So this change would allow the mayor or his designee
 to implement additional electric vehicle only charging station parking spaces that would be adjacent to new charging stations on facilities that the city operates in and around the downtown area and would allow us to do that proper enforcement with that I'm glad to answer any questions you all might have about this item what questions you have Peter on this Peter when we say
 We'll pay the standard rate while charging. Is that the parking only rate or is there an additional charge for the use of the electricity? That's a great question, Council Member Smith. The current space across from City Hall requires that you pay the standard parking rate, which for that parking space is 25 cents per hour from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday.
 down at the Spring Street parking deck. Parking rates are a little different. You pay to park from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. is 50 cents an hour, and then from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m. is a dollar an hour. So you would have to pay that rate at the Spring Street parking deck. In addition, at the Spring Street parking deck, as part of the contract that we're working on with Francis Renewables, you would also have to pay for the electricity
 to charge at that parking space. So there'd actually be two transactions for someone parking between the hours of 2 p.m. and 2 a.m. in the Spring Street parking deck. One transaction to pay for parking and another transaction to pay for the actual electricity. That is different from the way the space at Crossroad City Hall is regulated where you only have to pay for the actual parking.
 that's pretty standard for the level three chargers to to pay because they uh they're they're a little more expensive to own and operate i think but uh i just will the what do you anticipate being the the standard practice going forward is hopefully we we roll more of these out and and have a mix of the level twos and level threes i anticipate folks will be paying for um
 either the one rate will be all-encompassing where it covers the parking and the electricity or it'll be where it's a arrangement with a private company that manages the charging then it would be where you have to pay for that the parking separate from the actual electricity like we're working on it. Spring Street parking deck. Thanks. Any other questions?
 Do we have an example of how much an hour of parking, let's say today, is for the charging and the parking? So the rate that Francis Renewables, so they're currently building out an electric vehicle network all across the state of Oklahoma. The current rate that they charge for those spaces and what they've indicated they would charge down at the Spring Street parking deck is $1 to connect.
 then 31 cents per minute or $12.60 per hour and that's again that's for the level 3 fast charging station and typically it takes about a half an hour to charge at at one of those fast charging stations thank you mm-hmm any other questions okay let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak five minute timely unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council this is an order i mean we suspended we suspended the rules in the second okay we've got sarah and then we've got cops second
 All right. Chair, would you please call them? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 In order to amend Section 7258, Off-Street Parking Facility Rules and Rates, to authorize the mayor to prohibit non-electric vehicles from parking in designated electric vehicle charging parking spaces in all city parking facilities. I move the motion to the third reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Aye.
 Scroggins? Yes. Punch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An order to amend section 72.58 off-street parking facilities rules and rights to authorize the mayor to prohibit non-electric vehicles from parking in designated electrical vehicle charging parking spaces in all city parking facilities. Any final comments? Okay. Marsh? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Thank you, Mayor. We have just a few announcements. The
 Community Development Block Grant COVID Relief Fund that the city council approved at the meeting last Tuesday has been accepting applications for relief funds in the three categories that were approved by the council. And those applications will be taken until the end of Friday, this coming Friday, May 8th. Details about the application process are found on the website.
 We want to go ahead and let you all know that we have yet to reschedule those bulky waste pickups. We will plan to do so sometime in August, but we've not yet rescheduled them. A general reminder that as some of our restaurants may begin opening due to the governor's new order, we wanted to remind everyone.
 people coming downtown and in the Dixon Street merchant area that we won't be Enforcing our parking we we need to enforce our parking regulations. And so we'll be issuing warnings and citations where we have flagrant Issues with parking we've been trying to be gentle with that But as the business is reopened we'll have to make sure we have places for the patrons to work We will be releasing some new new
 revisions to our current recycling drop-off locations in the next day or two. And finally, some road closures. We've got asphalt work going on.
 today tomorrow and through the seventh old Missouri Road to from rolling hills to old wire from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. so a little bit of inconvenience there but a nice new road coming in I believe that's it thanks mayor all right any other announcements okay thank you all very much we're adjourned