I would like to call to order the city council meeting of May 7th, 2019. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Inyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Scroggins. Present. Hutch. Here. Kirk. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America. and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight under reports, we have the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul? Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be on the first quarter of 2019. The first quarter was a little soft compared to some of the gains that we've seen in previous years. However, as I look at sales tax, our about 0.9% under budget. Building permits were down during this period about 16% compared to what was last year. I will report, though, that building permits have begun to pick up. So hopefully that will turn around in the future. Right now the total revenue is down about 1.6%. I'm still pretty confident that we'll hit revenue projections by the end of the year However, we're going to have to see how this how this plays out So that's the report on the general fund when it comes to the street fund the street funds revenues up about 3% At this point of time that's driven mostly by sale of a fuel and coming in from the state, collected by the state and rebated to us. So street fund is pretty solid at this point in time. Parking fund, as you remember, parking was pretty soft, especially down in the entertainment district for January and February. However, it picked up in March, and right now we're up to revenue about 2% at this point in time. As we say, activity expand a bit. Parks development, we're up about 1.9% in the HMR taxes coming in for park development. That's been bouncing a little bit this year. We've had two months that are a little soft. I've seen April so far, and we've had two strong months. So it is varying a bit, but overall through March, the first quarter was up 1.9%. When we look at the enterprise funds, first enterprise fund we'll look at is water and sewer. Water and sewer sales are up 6% so far at this point, and that's driven by usage. I'm looking at water sales. Water sales are up pretty close to 6% at this point in time. The trash and recycling is up by 2.5% at this point in time. Remember, we have had some expansion, so we're starting to see some revenue come in. We're going to see additional revenue when those rates kick in soon, which will be the new rates that you approved earlier this year. As far as the airport fund, remember, we were very soft in the first two months. We're starting to come back a little bit in March and in April. We're pretty close to fuel sales with what we were last year. However, for the first quarter, we're down about 5.3%. Now that's a far cry from where we were for the first two months. We're down about 15% at that point in time. So revenue is starting to pick up a bit. Activity looks like it's picking up a bit. And we'll see where we go from here in the future. I'm happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this report? Good. All right. Thanks, Paul. Next order of business is nine. We have the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 16, 2019 City Council meeting minutes. Yes. Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of a replacement secondary clarifier scum pump from JCI Industries Incorporated in the amount of $20,707 plus political taxes for use by the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to approve budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $13,389 plus taxes from Pump Solutions Incorporated for the purchase of a critical spare parts kit for the influent pumps at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Facility and to prove budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to Task Order Number 6 with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center and the additional amount of $12,160.31 for stream bank repairs at Sweetbriar Park. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Nissan Leaf from McLarty Nissan of Little Rock in the amount of $25,500 per cent to a state procurement contract used by the Planning Division. 6. A resolution to authorize purchase of a 2019 Caterpillar CB10 asphalt compactor from Riggs Cad of Springdale in the amount of $146,271, pursuant to a source well-cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Transportation Department. 7. 8. A resolution to authorize the purchase of a 2020 Kenworth T440 rollback truck from MHC Kenworth of Springdale in the amount of $188,373.31 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract used by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number eight. A resolution authorized purchase of two Peterbilt 520 front load trucks with new weigh bodies from the Arkansas Municipal Equipment Incorporated in the total amount of $499,644.92 presented to a source well cooperative purchasing contract used by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number nine. a resolution to prove a contract with the southern company in the amount of $20,580 plus fiscal taxes for the purchase and installation of a fuel station canopy for the fleet operations division. A resolution authorized the combination and conversion of a 0.5 full-time equivalent civilian park patrol position and a 0.5 full-time equivalent police imaging clerk position to a 1.0 full-time equivalent police support specialist position in the police department with the understanding that the park patrol position will be replaced by reassigning a full-time sworn police officer dedicated to patrolling federal parks and trails. Number 11, a resolution to authorize the obstruction of certain records shown on the attached affidavit pursuant to a two relevant sections of the Arkansas Code related to maintenance and destruction of accounting and other city records, and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 12, a resolution to approve a two-year sublease agreement with Tower Square Federal LLC for four parking spaces at 112 South Center Building for use by the Federal Public Defender's office in the amount of $50 per space per month. Number 13, a resolution to approve purchase of replacement bunker gear for the fire department from North America Fire Equipment Company Incorporated on an as-needed basis pursuant to a NPP-GOV cooperative purchasing contract through June 14, 2019 and any future renewal periods. Number 14, a A resolution to approve a contract with Target Solutions Learning LLC through May 30, 2022 in the amount of $10,986 for the first year with 3% annual increase pursuant to an NPP-GOV cooperative purchasing agreement for software to be used by the fire department to assist with training, record keeping, and compliance. Number 15. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a paving for pizza grant through Domino's Pizza LLC in the amount of $5,000 for filling potholes and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 16, a resolution to authorize three-year renewal of the enterprise agreement with Microsoft Corporation through its authorized seller, SHI International Corporation for software products any amount of $136,371.68 per year plus applicable taxes sent to a state procurement contract and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $27,274 per year for additional software licenses is needed. And number 17. resolution to prove supplement agreement number one to the contract with Burns McDonald engineering company incorporated in the amount of fifty thousand four hundred and thirty nine dollars for additional design services associated with the same Street extension project and approve a budget adjustment retain a motion to accept consent agenda is read Sarah so moved second we have a motion to second to accept consent agenda is read Sandra would you please call the roll Smith? Yes. Guterres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Squaggin? Yes. Sunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Under unfinished business, number one, in order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6553 for approximately .22 acres located at 510 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. i will entertain a motion to go to second reading okay okay sarah i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading okay sonja second you have a motion to say and go to the second rate son which police call it off samia yes good terence yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and nor did it's rezone that property described in reasoning petition rzn's 19-6553 for approximately 0.22 acres located at 510 south college avenue from nc neighborhood conservation to ri-u residential intermediate urban anything new garner um mayor kelson no i don't have anything to add i did hear from the applicant uh z niederman who said that uh he was is unexpectedly out of town And if you have questions or remaining issues, he would be happy with a continuance. Okay. So, okay. Any questions for the staff? I have to go to town. Do I have any public comment on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council, what you all want to do. Okay. Do you all want to hold this then for another two weeks or... I guess since the applicant said maybe we had any questions to wait. Okay. I don't know. Let's wait. Okay. Sarah. I was going to say, I don't have any questions. I would be happy to vote tonight. But if the council feels comfortable waiting, I'm fine with that. I did not hear that this was urgent. How did I see it? Okay. Y'all just want to hold it then? Two weeks? Sure. All right. Number two. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 19-6555 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 1924 South Ashwood Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I understand there is an amendment? Yes, the applicant, and I think Garner emailed Garner and said that he wanted to change his particular request to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre. And so I have prepared that ordinance, and it's lying in front of you right now. That would be, you want to go along with what the applicant has requested, and I think that was talked about at the last meeting too. I believe the applicant, Stephen Brooks, is here if you have questions for him. We did meet with him. Council had a discussion about whether what the appropriate zoning district would be based on the lot size. This lot does meet all the base requirements of the RSF 8. It's 50 foot wide. It's 142 feet deep and it has area requirements that. The applicant indicated that he would like to construct a duplex, which would take a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission. That'll work. Thank you. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment as suggested. Is there any public comment on the amendment? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to amend to an RSF-8. Correct? All right. son would you please call the roll smith yes guterres yes arch yes yes eddie yes clogging yes yes yes since this was a relatively short amend uh ordinance and if you amended it let me read the whole ordinance for the second reading an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 19-65 55 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 1924 South Ashwood Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map Exhibit A. and the legal description exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RS 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are selected by a men's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, what questions do we have from the Council? We have the amended ordinance before us now. Oh, Matthew. Is this the second reading or the first reading? Well, we haven't got the second. This is the second reading. We're going to have to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sometimes I wish we could skip one. Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and this is the second. We've just finished the second. Okay. We can go to the third reading. Okay. Do we have any public comment on the amended ordinance? Okay, good. All right. We have a motion and a second. We go to the third and final. Who's the seconder on that? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Guterres. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Squoggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Church. Yes. Yes. enormous reason on that property described in reasonably petition rzn 19-65 55 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 1924 south ashwood avenue from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre what final comments do we have in the council well i do want to say i want to thank uh some folks i want to i want to thank staff that's worked on this there was a lot of concerns about 24 unit apartment complex going in there, but I want to thank the staff for their work I want to thank Matt Petty for great suggestion the RSF ain't last two weeks ago I want to thank the applicant for working with the neighborhood I want to thank and I want to thank the neighborhood for showing up and all the messages I got at home. And I want to thank you all for your indulgence in this because I think this is really a great example when everyone works together on any kind of problem that we face in neighborhoods or anywhere else. Anything can be worked out when reasonable people take a reasonable approach. That's what happened here. I want to thank you all, everybody that worked on this. Thank you. i always said that this way i like to see government work anyway so with that being said something which police call row smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right thank you all all right number three An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6573 for approximately 0.93 acres located at 509 West Prairie Street from DG Downtown General to MSC Main Street Center. Mayor, I don't have anything to add. You want me to read the body of the ordinance? Why don't you read the whole thing? Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from D.G. Downtown General to M.S.C. Main Street Center. Section 2 that City Council City of Fayetteville arcs right here by immense official zoning map in the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning Change provided in section 1 so that's the second reading. Okay It's the applicant here just like say something for the council. You don't have anything right guard. No matter. Okay Hi, my name is Jason Wright with Moda studio representing the property owner. Honestly, we don't have anything dad We're here to answer questions though If you have any for us, okay? I do have a question. What's the difference? It's downtown general, right, Garnt? It's a question for staff. It's zone downtown general, right? Yes, and the request is the Main Street Center. What's the difference in the two zones? I think people might relate. The uses are very, very similar. The height limitations are different. The Main Street Center allows two additional stories. Then the other big difference is that Main Street Center is viewed as a commercial district for the purposes of sound control the existing district would be viewed as a residential district and that that That matters because of the decibel levels that are loud as well as The Main Street Center allows the possibility of the applicant seeking a conditional use permit for outdoor events, outdoor sound, outdoor music. And that's not allowed in downtown general? Outdoor isn't. In eating, outdoor music is not allowed in downtown in general, but is in Main Street Center. And the height is different if they can go up there. Two additional stories. All right. Anything else from the council on this? Okay. Oh, sorry, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. So, Governor, the total number of heights, if it goes to – if it's rezoned, how many, is that five stories? Seven stories. Seven stories. And the request is five stories in the existing zoning. Okay, thank you for that. Okay, sure you didn't have anything. Okay, all right. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Okay, what's everybody's thoughts here? Mark, it's your awarding it, Jordan Matthews, period. I think. Yeah. I've heard. Okay. Yes. So I love that this is at the base, at the foot of the cultural arts corridor. I think it's a great entry point from the south, and I think having a lot of flexibility for that corridor entrance is really important, including height. I could potentially see – um, you know, artist workspaces or studios there, if they go with the height, I know immediately, um, we had a, there was a tour that was scheduled just to look at the property. The concern for me is parking, um, and sound. Um, and so that's what I, what I understand is there's no requirement for extra parking. And so that's kind of my question is like, how do we Deal with the parking, but I do love the idea that it would be at density to that part and some entertainment at the entrance Parking requirement for non-residential uses residential uses are also allowed in these districts both districts but for non-residential districts we do not require parking now if they were to pursue a conditional use permit and for an events venue the planning commission could certainly look at that to make sure that it fits into the neighborhood uh slow um yeah i don't i'm okay with the increased density and not a requirement for more parking on the actual conditional use permit for outdoor entertainment If the neighbors around there had issues with the music, a conditional use permit could be restricted down to the basically residential level. That is something a conditional use permit could do. For outdoor performance, it is a discretionary conditional use process, and reasonable conditions, of course, can be added, yes. Similar to what happened with the JJ's... scenario where eventually it ended well um So if people had an issue, you could restrict it. I think that's important. So allowing more options if that's needed, and then if it doesn't work for people that live there, possibly revisiting it at some point. If a conditional use permit is passed in the future, I think it's important. The other thing that Planning Commission, I think they're fairly experienced in this issue, and I'm sure they'll want to do this, When you do a startup in a new location, you obviously want to put a time limit on it. You want to put careful hours on it. You want to put decibel levels on it. Sound screening, having gone through it in the last three years, I'm comfortable our planning commission is very knowledgeable in all those issues. And certainly staff will be thinking about those if an application comes in. Thank you. Okay. Mark. Guess when I look at this and what I have to think about is what we have faced the last three years with the parking situation uptown and the Fact that there was a conditional use but it was violated continuously and I think that that tells us a lot about This type of operation and so I do have concerns and there's other people that have concerns about it And so I'm reluctant to to support this because of the problems that we have seen uptown in a very similar situation. I think that this is compounded more by the fact that it is actually in a neighborhood, whereas uptown it was adjacent to a neighborhood. Now, this is a very urban neighborhood, so there is a good fit there on the urban level, and I'm sensitive to that and I understand it, but I also know that parking is going to be, very hard down there. The streets that go into the neighborhood, up Gregg, for instance, in that area are very narrow and winding, and they're not going to have street parking available. So that's a concern that we're not faced with on Uptown. In Uptown, they had all that soft parking lot adjacent to JJ's, and so that at least allowed some opportunity for people to get parked. this is not an easy decision for me because like I say I do see that there's a a valid use here in a very urban situation but I also see that there's going to be challenges and the conditional use I think is going to have to be scrutinized and set up in a way that it can be in place and hopefully it won't be violated So I haven't made up my mind how I'm voting, but that's what's crossing my mind and what I've heard from other people that have contacted me in the area. Sarah. Thank you. I'm going to support this. I think this is a really visionary plan for this neighborhood. And, you know, speaking of is it a neighborhood, there are very few residences nearby this. I will in full disclosure, my boyfriend's law firm is directly across the trail from this property. So, you know, that is one of the few residential properties that's right next to it. But, you As far as the parking goes, this is on our trail. This is on the Razorback Greenway, and it reminds me a lot of a music venue I used to go to a lot in Seattle. There was Red Hook Brewery or Chateau Saint-Michel, where people would regularly ride their bikes out to catch a concert, and that was kind of the way that they would engage with these venues. This is a really popular area of town that just has a lot of things happening. We're right on the Cultural Arts Corridor. We're right at the Mill District. Just south of this is MLK, where we have some of the highest traffic counts in the city. So there are already a lot of people coming and going through this neighborhood. We've got the Walmart neighborhood market that's directly adjacent to it. So I don't see this as... I guess I see this as part of this neighborhood evolving and becoming a more urban neighborhood with a lot of attractions and reasons for people to come to Fayetteville and spend their tourism and entertainment dollars here. So I'm going to support this. Shlomit. Yeah, I would be in support of this as well. You know, my questions about the conditional use permit are because I was affected by that in another place. But one of the things that when we were dealing with that, I think I made a note to say that I don't want this one to be so bad that we don't ever do another one. That I don't want somebody to get kind of this government-approved kind of monopoly, and then we stop other people to do it because they were pretty much a bad act. in that case. So I don't want to stop it because of kind of the failure there. I hope at some point we revisit that one. But I'll definitely be approving this and hope that the condition permit works a little better here. Okay. Sarah. Yes. I'm not quite decided on this yes. I think it could be... really unique wonderful addition to this part of town but one thing that on this map that I'm looking at is it it doesn't show that that the corner of Weston Prairie that Their house is there now Um, you know, I sold one that faces Prairie and I spent a great deal of time, you know, going and doing inspections and being there. And there's a lot of traffic on that corner. There's a lot of people that drive through there cutting to go to the Walmart, cutting through to cut out school Avenue and come out on government. There's a lot of traffic there already. Um, and if, but, but I'm, I'm in support of it to the extent if I think we can get, you the hours are right for the music and that sort of thing like that. And maybe we can continue to work on our parking in that part of town because there's a lot of people that are still going to drive to things. And especially they'll be more crowded with parking as this property across from it gets developed too. So there's a lot of people drive there. Don't know why. There's a lot of people on the trail, but there's a lot of people driving too. So thanks. Okay. Kyle. I think one thing staff wants to get on the record, if you do approve it, is I think our recommendation will be fairly stringent in terms of the startup numbers. And I heard numbers yesterday on the tour that I don't think worked for this parcel. They were too high. so to the extent that this is a a zoning and land use question that i'm going to support this one too Part where it comes down to a particular performance venue and conditional use permit. I think that's that's the next conversation, but When I look at this one all around it is is Main street center. So this will actually fit the zoning that's across the trail the neighbors on Prairie Street have Already have this kind of zone in the neighborhood So I'm not seeing that we're going to be adding just by the by the zoning classification any any undue additional burden to them I think there's like has been said there's a lot of potential here for this to turn into something neat whether it's live music or something else But I think this is the first step in and sort of unlocking that potential for neighborhood Okay, Trace? I'm unsure about this one. I like the idea of being able to ride my bike to a music festival, a music venue. I love that idea. I too used to go to the Red Hook Brewery off the Burt Gilman Trail in Seattle. It was terrific. But I'm concerned about a few things. I'm concerned about how many, the number, the scale of people that would be there. So I think that's got to be really well thought out and controlled. Um, the parking, like we've been talking about. And then if the applicant chooses to build a seven story building, that just seems, uh, I know we have the mill building there, but, uh, if they were to choose to develop that site, that, that would be very, a very different experience, um, that I have on the trail right now down in that area. And that Prairie street is very congested. Um, when I crossed that on the bike trail, um, You have to really look out. And I think it, like we've talked about it, it's because of the Walmart lot. People are cutting through there. So I'm still unsure about this. I like the concept, but I have some reservations. Okay. Garner, you mentioned numbers that were brought up on the tour. Tell me, I didn't understand what you were, you said that it didn't, that they were too high? I don't think they could accommodate 1,200 people there. I don't either, but that's the intent. I think they are still doing their homework. I think they're exploring options. They're looking at various concepts broadly. We really can't talk about that, I suppose, in the zoning, but 1,200 is a pretty good crowd. I agree. I don't think... I think the startup needs to be very modest, and otherwise... It's just not going to work with Unless they figure out how to manage their parking and I agree that many people will come on the trail But they're going to probably need some parking. I just want to be clear that what? Gardner was doing for the council and the applicant was to let them know that I what was discussed on the tour yesterday at those numbers is not something that they should expect that the staff will be supporting that comes forward to the planning commission on conditional use. I really don't want it to influence the decision on the zoning one way or another. If you look at the map, this is already zoned Main Street Center up to the east and to the south. So it's not like this is out of character with the zoning in that area. Okay. Teresa? Oh, okay. Kyle? Governor, do we have easy access to the amount of street frontage that's on this parcel? As we talk about parking, I'm curious how many – there's currently not on-street parking here, but – Both streets are what are called bar ditch drainage streets. They could be improved and add parallel parking. Just wondering what the – How much parking would be gained by improvements to on-street parking that way? No, certainly not to the numbers that we're talking. I'm just trying to get a ballpark estimate since that's – It's just under an acre. So you're talking about – I think it's about 400 feet by about 300 feet. I'd also like to note that there is a very popular transit stop just two blocks up from that. So for students accessing that from the university, there's an easy way to use transit to get there. Okay. We're sitting on the third reading. We're on the second reading, correct? Or we could hold it on the second, right? You could. Because there really is a lot of discussion on this right now. And the area, and I think we should give people the opportunity to work that out. I'd like to wait myself and see what we might be able to do with this. I think it's really a good idea, but I really had concerns about the parking when I saw it yesterday, and we were talking about numbers of around 1,000, 1,200 people showing up. I just couldn't see how we were going to manage that. I don't want to create another situation like that. Well, I dealt with another situation a couple years ago that I thought was a really great idea. I have spent a lot of time correcting things. Carter, what is the next zoning? Is there the next level of zoning that would require a certain amount of parking? Like could we ask them to think and consider? Or what do we – can you do that? This – Outdoor music is not allowed as a permitted use in this district. It's allowed as a conditional use. So in order to create their events center that they've described, they would have to apply for conditional use permit, which goes to the Planning Commission. And it's called a conditional use permit, and you can add conditions, reasonable conditions, to make it fit the neighborhood. And hours of operation, decibel levels, sound barriers, parking could all be discussed with the conditional use permit. So just to make sure there's not, there's, you know, I guess what I'm trying to figure out is, is this the best zoning so that the parking can be planned for the, if there is a seven story building? Like, is there another one that could allow this zoning? the density but also bring in parking uh fayetteville doesn't require parking for non-residential uses in any districts it's non-residential yeah we change that residential uses would require parking which are also allowed in this district and just to give context to A question that Council Member Smith asked. On Government Street, so if you look at this map, there are approximately 11 parking spaces from MLK to Prairie on that street. It is not wide enough for parking on both sides, so that's one side of the street. So you're talking about counts. I would just like to note that, you know, we're looking at this on a pretty small map, but if we think of this as part of our comprehensive downtown cultural arts strategy, you know, it's not a difficult walk from the library parking deck. If we end up replacing the Walton Arts Center parking with where the Community Creative Center is or on one of those lots adjacent, that's still only about a five to ten minute walk. So that's not a stretch. There are opportunities for shared parking in this neighborhood, but ultimately, you know, if we're looking at compatibility, um, they're just asking to rezone the rest of that block to what the other part of the block is. And so from a compatibility test, it passes. Um, So I think that this is one of those times where we need to really think about the future of Fayetteville and how we're supposed to be growing a livable transportation network. And we're encouraging trail-oriented development, and we want people to choose active transportation. And so this is one of those times where we just have to look at the future and not necessarily think about how people get around today, but how will they be getting around 20 years from now? how will we support the growth and development of this corridor? Because we want people to come to our cultural arts corridor. We want people in downtown, and this is yet another reason to bring them there, whether this is the proposed music venue or some other building consistent with the zoning that is surrounding this property. And think about that. what we want the future of Fayetteville to be. And, you know, I want to see trail-oriented development. I want to have a lot of... entertainment options and cultural options for people to access on their bike or walking or on the bus and and this is an opportunity to do that and instead of thinking about parking i mean this isn't springdale let's stop thinking about parking let's look ahead and think about neighborhood quality and the quality of the cultural arts that we want to provide in our community and i think this is consistent with that vision mark well I think that parking is real relevant and I think that we saw that with uptown and I think that it was immediate and it was unfortunate. And so I can look at the long term 20 years down the road, but I also know that in the short term, if this is if this is implemented, there is going to be a pretty immediate impact. And so I cannot just say I'm looking at 20 years down the road when I know that there's something that will be happening five years down the road or three years down the road that is going to have an immediate impact on what is currently in this neighborhood. And so that's how I'm looking at this, and that's how I think that a lot of the neighbors that I've heard from are looking at it is the immediate impact that they're going to have on the properties in that general vicinity. So I guess we just have a different perspective. Okay. Okay. Leave it here two weeks and see what we got. All right. All right. Let's move on to new business then. All right. Number one. A resolution to approve the purchase of an automatic car wash system from Whitting Systems, incorporated with Alexander, Arkansas, in the amount of $532,583.88 pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract for the fleet car wash project and to approve a budget adjustment. I just wanted to take a minute and we'll let Sarah answer the questions that came up last week. I wanted to introduce her. Jessie retired as of Friday and Sarah is the new fleet superintendent. She has worked for us for four years in fleet and she's one of only three people that have a certified fleet management certification. And of those other three, one was Jessie. So she's taking over that division, and I just want to introduce her to you. Everybody on the equipment committee is familiar with her, but the rest of you are not. So I'll turn it over to her. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I appreciate your time. This has been my kind of passion project for about three years now So I've done a lot of research about this you all should have received a Document on Friday in your email. I wanted to go over that before I go into my PowerPoint and So the top of that document has a lot of numbers and I wanted to highlight those. Those are current expenses over the last six years. It's hard to pinpoint our current water usage for the current truck wash because that truck wash is tied into our shop building. So all of that water is. into one bill so it's hard to separate that out but over the past six years that's 2013 through 2018 our contracted outside car wash for our average size vehicles has increased from 6 700 in 2013 to 11 329 dollars in 2018 so over six years it's almost sixty thousand dollars and in 2019 They took away our last discount. I do research about every other year to see if there's any other car washes within the city limits that can provide us the same type of service as far as each car has their own identification number and we can have them a key code to log in at the car wash and have it accessible to all of the – city vehicles within a certain limit of area space and then i also listed repairs to our current truck wash that's just repairs it does not include any sort of walk soap or water because we would use that in any other wash so just repairs in the last six years we've that almost $30,000. So combined that's $87,254. So we're averaging about $14,500 a year in just those expenses. That's pretty excessive in my mind. So with this one project, we're trying to solve four issues. Those issues are that our current truck wash is at the end of our shop building. That shop building is metal. We have a lot of decay and rust from that being at the end of our shop building. Our current average wash building is contracted out and the price continues to increase and it's offsite. The manual wash area for any equipment, yes. It's also damaging our parks building. And then also our fleet itself continues to grow, but the shop building does not. And so when the current truck wash goes out of the building, then we can take that into our shop as workspace. So I wanted to share with you some photos that we have. This is our current truck wash that's at the end of our building. And as you can see, this is right after a truck went through, so we have some debris. This is our current wash. As you can probably tell, it's dated. It's very rickety. It's currently out of service right now. We're waiting on parts currently, so it has been down since Friday, and we expect it to be down for the next several days. We have a policy that trash and recycling trucks need to be cleaned every day. As you can imagine, they get pretty dirty. trashy and They will not be washed for several days because of it simply being down This is some of the decay and our building that is a door that actually goes into our shop This is the inside roof of that wash area The equipment for our current wash is just inside the bay and so it's constantly getting moist It is constantly being damaged and This is our pressure wash area, which is actually the outside of the parks building. And so you can see it's constantly being damaged. The outside block is actually discolored. There's no covering over it, so any kind of rainwater just goes straight into the drain. There's no protection from that. That's just another shot of the same building. You can see where we've tried to paint it and it just keeps washing the paint off. That's a door there into the equipment room for the pressure wash area. And inside of the pressure wash area you can see again we've tried to paint it and it just continues to deteriorate. This is an example of what we've been working on with our engineers and architects to design an all-in-one building where we could have everything in one area for the convenience of all of our operators and the convenience of the fleet staff so that, again, we're not going to multiple sites. It's kind of small, but we have a small wash bay on the left side there. That would be for any average-sized vehicles. and it would have brushes that would more thoroughly wash our equipment. Then there's an equipment room that would house all of our equipment separate from the actual bay itself so that it would keep it dry and more sustainable. Then we have a large truck wash. This would have jets only so that it wouldn't damage any – actual equipment and we could have some of our trucks with ladder racks that would get caught in any brush areas They could go through that large wash bay and then on the far right we have a manual wash area that would be covered so that any rainwater would be directed in other areas and it also has a a walkway up above so that the operators can actually walk above and spray off any Trash or debris before it actually goes down into the drain and we can capture it that way These are some examples of a whiting system itself We're bringing this forward now so that the whiting system Company can work with our architects to make sure that their system is in line with everything that we're designing currently This is an example of their system. It's much sturdier than our current system. We expect it to last 20 years, and we are collecting for it. Actually, I've already budgeted for it in the 2020 budget to start collecting for it to have it fully collected in that 20 years. So the drivers would pull up and stop, and that system would go back and forth over the vehicle just like you would at a normal car wash that you probably have driven your personal vehicles through. And that's all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have? Okay. Teresa. Teresa. Thanks so much for the presentation tonight. So this is just the request for tonight is just for the car wash system, correct? It's not for a new building or anything like that. Is that correct? Correct. Thank you. Anybody else? I think we talked about this at equipment committee but what's it's way too soon to talk about how much the building around it will cost but is there a ballpark estimate for the total project price once it's all said and done the total project budget is 1.3 million and that includes site development small uh do we have any estimates on increased life span of our equipment by using this as opposed to the old system well currently because our old system does not properly you know get into crevices i actually last week i stood out there and watched it compared to a couple of years ago i i watched it as well what it currently does is as the trash truck or whatever vehicle is in there it will sit and What it's supposed to do what it's designed to do is as if the truck sits, you know it should come down and go around the vehicle and what our system does is one side sprays heavily and then the other side sprays heavily so it's not getting the full action on both sides at the same time and so as it's spraying for say two minutes it's really only getting one minute of that cleaning solution so it's not properly cleaning it and The part that most commonly goes down in our system, this is kind of a side note, but is the sensor that senses where the end of the vehicle is. And so we have a lot of wasted water right now because it will go all the way down the track instead of stopping where the vehicle ends. And so it wastes a lot of water currently. But with this system, because where the jets come out, they actually rotate and they will be able to get into crevices better than what we have currently. It should be able to get into places that we just frankly can't do right now unless we hand wash everything daily. Okay, and then you mentioned filtering out debris. Where does that debris currently go? Um, actually with the, the new wash on, uh, the average size or smaller wash, we plan on recycling that water. We will reclaim that water and reuse it again on the large wash. Currently, um, we have a drain that it goes down into and we clean that out. Um, it, we actually have a vacuum truck that we regularly recycle. Used to suck all of that out and it goes to the water wastewater treatment plant and so we will likely do that Again with the new wash. Thank you. Okay. Yeah the questions What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring back to the council sir. I move we approve the resolution Second we have a motion in second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council. I I have a comment and it's not for the council but it's for Sarah and her team. She's being modest a bit in terms of, one, I'm excited to start diversifying our management. So I know that's a goal of the council and she is really brilliant and we're going to see good things out of that division with her leadership and not because she's a female but because she's the best qualified applicant for the job. She just happens to bring us additional diversity. But she has worked very hard. She kind of glossed over by saying this has been a three-year project and When you spend this kind of money on a car wash, it raises a lot of questions. But we have a top 20 fleet in the United States as a municipality that while to slow your question about will it extend the life of our vehicles, we hope so. That's the kind of data we'll be able to collect as we move forward with this. But I think our current system doesn't give us the ability to really even measure to see what is impact on life today because we're using private entities for smaller vehicles and then our large program is not performing at the level we need and that's part of why we're making this investment. Not only the environmental positive impacts with water reclamation for those places that we can and reusing to be better stewards of that resource. But I will tell you that this requirement, so let's just use trash trucks. An unwashed trash truck in June with the juices and things that are coming forward can have very corrosive impacts and very significant smells. And we know the tolerance when you're driving these trucks in neighborhoods. is not the experience that we want citizens to have with our service. And so this thing has so many benefits beyond the payback. And if you look at it, I say that we always underestimate our payback, meaning that we say something has a life of 20 years, we tend to get 25 out of it. And if you looked at this investment, even at... at the cost of this over 25 years, you're talking about $20,000, and if you just add inflation alone to where we are, we're recovering that. We also, in our fleet charges, charge our divisions for replacement of equipment. So... While this is new, from this point forward, we will have those dollars in the future as we move forward with additional systems at the end of life. And hopefully, through good management, we'll be able to extend the life of that equipment. So we really think this is a win. It also gives us the ability to have control over our fleet on property with our smaller vehicles from a centralized perspective. And then I think just the last part of it is that, you know, washing isn't created equal. We might think we don't wash in January or February, but when you've had a large snow event and you have salt melt and brine on your vehicles, it's really extremely important that you maintain those to get that added life. So I think this is a great thing. I think Sarah and her team have done a fantastic job of researching it and showing you, hopefully, the impacts not only of the equipment, but... of building facilities that we don't want to be impacted by the way we're currently locating our wash. And then the last item is we save a lot of money by providing our own fleet services and we are going to need that additional space as our fleet continues to grow. And our only option for that is to utilize our current base for our actual mechanic expansions without having to build a new mechanic building. So this is the ability to kind of separate a use that's having a corrosive impact and at the same time giving us future expansion opportunities for the fleet. So thank you, Sarah, for your work. Thank you. Yes, thanks, Sarah. And again, the 20 years is just on the equipment. We hope the building lasts much, much longer. Anything else? Okay. Son, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, a resolution to approve the contract with Revival Architecture Incorporated for Professional Architectural Services for the Woolsey Farmstead. reconstruction project with phases one and two and three to be completed in 2019 a total cost of thirty one thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars in phases four and five to be completed in 2020 at a total cost of fifty two thousand five hundred dollars contingent on approval of the of the 2020 annual city budget and work program thank you As discussed at the agenda session, this is a project we've been working on for several years. This particular contract is in association with the ongoing Woolsey Farmstead project. Just to update the council, in 1999, this property and structure was purchased with the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant property, and there's approximately 27 acres here. In late 2013, there was a desire to determine the historical significance and overall potential of the Woosley Farmstead. In early 2014, a condition assessment report by Aaron Ruby not only confirmed the historical significance, but also identified early stabilization measures that we could do to preserve the structure, and some long-term plans and funding became available. In 2015, city staff completed the cleanup, the interim stabilization, and weatherproofing of the house. Also in 2015, the Woolsey Farmstead Visionary Committee was formed to help define a direction and a relevant period for the project. Based on the information from a historical structure report and committee input, the planned vision includes an 1850s farmstead, which includes reconstructing the house to the 1856 era, construct relevant and period appropriate buildings, and reclaim the farmland as it would have been during this period. This photograph we have up here is kind of a reconstruction photo of that. The end use would be an interactive farm used for educational purposes with area schools. It would be historical attraction and a destination and other uses as determined. The parks divisions will manage and maintain the structures. and the property. So in 2016, after the overall direction was determined, council approved a contract for architectural services for the overall project programming, the phasing of the projects, a budget plan. It also included construction drawings for final stabilization of the house structure. So here we are today. After we've accrued of CIP funds over the past several years, we're now in a financial position to request approval of the contract with Revival Architecture to start the bidding and permanent stabilization and the interior finishes. Approval of this contract will enable the bidding for the project and the stabilization and the construction drawings. The current project budget available is just over $300,000 for the house reconstruction project. and the anticipated construction schedule is to be completed with us in the fall of 2020. So with the approval of the 2020 through 2022 funding, we can do the additional phases, which is about $504,000. So Aaron Ruby was able to do a presentation at the agenda session. He's not available tonight, but I do have a few photos here of the overall vision and the master plan. And to back up, this is what we started with back in 2014. As you can see, the house was overgrown. We're looking at the potato shed. So we stabilized or we removed the porch, did some clearing, got the fence put back together, cleaned up around the fences. And that's kind of what it looks like now. The red fenced area is the well. We enlisted some local resources to help us, you can see. There's some more clearing. This is the portion that we hope to remove from the house and restore and display. This is the old chimney fireplace with the rocks and stones where we took those and stacked those near the house ready. That is an old porch that was added on later years that will be removed. You can see where we've stacked the stones. So the old porch on the front was removed and we kept the foundation blocks and the foundation stones there for reuse. This is the old cemetery after we cleaned it up. You can see the barrier fence around it to keep people out, but you can also see the wrought iron fences and this repair. And here's where we are today. We've got a membrane on the roof. We've stabilized the walls. We've got Tyvek weatherproofing on the walls. And this is where we're ready to start. This is back to the 1840s or 1843 structure. You can see we're planning on a handicap accessible ramp off the back. As Erin said, we're wanting to keep half of them, possibly half the house, just raw and open so you can see the rafters in the upper story and possibly finish out the other half. And then these are miscellaneous details and the overall site plan. with show potential parking. So that's it. Any questions, I'll be glad to answer. Any questions? Okay. Any public comment? Right back to the council. Sarah. Thank you. I'm really excited to see this. This has been a long time coming, but this is one of those things that I feel like we owe future generations to preserve this amazing piece of history. And we're so fortunate that it was on land that we already owned. I recognize we have a lot of demands on our budget, so I think we're taking a very responsible, slow pace on this and just doing what we can as we can. But ultimately, we have a responsibility to preserve this and turn it into a unique asset where people can learn about our heritage, our history. And I love that it will be easy to bike to and it's close to home. Our renewable energy facility our Woolsey wet prairie and our state-of-the-art wastewater treatment plant So lots of great things coming here with that. I move that we approve the resolution second that Seconded approve the resolution any final comments from the council? I have just a short statement I want to make before we vote on this. I want to thank some folks. I want to thank Wade Abernathy for keeping the Woolsey Farmstead Reconstruction Project moving along and Aaron Ruby and the Revival Architecture Board for his fine work on this project. And I want to thank Councilmember Sarah Morris and the Original Visioning Committee who helped originally establish the Woolsey Family Homestead Restoration Capital Improvement Project and who helped us to preserve this farmstead at the historic Woolsey Family Cemetery. And I'm particularly proud that we're able to permanently preserve the Woolsey Wet Prairie and the savanna habitat for the long-term environmental benefit of the native species birds and other animals and i'm excited about this project i have been we've waited on this a long time i'm excited about this project and that it's moving forward and i look forward to seeing the restored woolsey home in the beginning beginning the future phases, including the development of the urban farm. This historic preservation project will be a destination for students and children and residents and visitors to enjoy one of the oldest homesteads of our early settlers. This is an historic moment for us here, literally, and I'm really thrilled to be a part of this. So thank you all very, very much. And, Simon, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes All right, number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6589 for approximately 4.3 acres located at 238 West Moore Lane from R.A. Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Yes. be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from r.a residential agricultural to nsg neighborhood services general section 2 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Mayor and council this four acre parcel is located on Dean Solomon Road northeast corner with more Lane the surrounding zoning is planned zoning district to the north and to the east and That's a townhouse project immediately to the east and and a residential project to the west that's currently under development. To the south we have RMF 24 and C2 zoning across Dean Solomon. It is RI 12 and those are all developed, that cul-de-sac is completely developed for duplexes. And the abandoned Razorback Golf Course is across the street and it's on neighborhood conservation. The city plan 2030 designates the area as city neighborhood area, which encourages a variety of uses, residential building types, and increased density where appropriate. Issues that were debated at the Planning Commission, originally community services was applied for, the applicant changed it to neighborhood services general to be more compatible with the surrounding area at the Planning Commission level. As you'll recall, Neighborhood Services General allows single-family, duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes. It also allows a use group 12B, which are small-scale office and commercial uses. And staff and Planning Commission feel that it is compatible. It is a remnant of our a zoning completely surrounded by more contemporary urban zoning And so playing Commission staff recommend approval of the NSG not the neighborhood not the community services Okay, I believe the applicant is here mayor. Oh, yes, dad can like to say something to the council Okay, what public comment do we have on this then I All right, seeing none, right back to the council. Sarah. Thank you. I did have the opportunity to meet with the president of the Pines at Springwood, which is the development immediately north of this, and the consensus from that group is that they were excited to see it redeveloped and were supportive of the resum. Okay, good. So with that, I will suspend the rules and – Okay. Do we have a second? Slunk? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Eddy? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the partition RZN 19-6589 for approximately 4.3 acres, located at 238 Westmore Lane from RA Residential Agricultural to NSG Neighborhood Services General. And so, sir. And may we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes and your nits reason that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 19 65 89 for approximately 4.3 acres located at 238 Westmore Lane from our a residential agricultural to NSG neighborhood services general Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Finian. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. All right, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to approve Vacation 19-6634, property located at 401 West Mountain Street to vacate portions of street right-of-way access easement and utility easements necessary for the Federal Public Library expansion project. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of street right-of-way, access easement, and utility easements are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of street right-of-way access easement and utility easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk and Section 3, This vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Warren. Yes, Mayor. This is in the category almost housekeeping associated with our library expansion project. There are remnants of utility easements and a little bit of right-of-way still left on the land that need to be cleaned up. Here's an illustration of the four remnants that are left. Nobody identified a need for any of these Eastminster rights-of-ways, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval subject to the conditions that the city attorney read. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Okay, any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay. slow move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading slow would you enter your motion okay so please call yes yes yes yes yes yes yes ordinance to approve the AC 19-66 30 for a property located at 401 West Mountain Street to vacate portions of street right-of-way access easement and utility easements necessary for the Fayetteville public library expansion project I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading second second motion second Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Gideon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Croghan. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC19-6630 for property located at 401 West Mountain Street to vacate portions of street right-of-way, access easement, and utility easements necessary for the Fayetteville Public Library Expansion Project. Any final comments from the councilor? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnian. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Okay, number five. A resolution to approve change order number three to the contract with Crossland Construction Company Corporation in the amount of $19,588,836 for construction of the new building shell and the mechanical, electrical, and plumbing trade package associated with the Federal Public Library expansion project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $500,000. Just to kind of recap, in September 2017, there was a contract with NAPHOLTS Construction to get the asbestos out of the old hospital. Then in June of 2018, change order number one with Crossland Construction was approved for the demolition of the old hospital and church building. In February of this year, change order number two was approved with Crossland for the earthwork for the expansion. This is now about 75% complete. And now today we're here to request approval of change order number three that Includes the foundations the slabs the structural steel masonry framing roofing curtain wall and glazing elevator electrical and mechanical systems Generally speaking this change or will provide the building for the addition in the dry what some folks say is a white box storage All these trade packages were competitively bid through our purchasing division. This change order amount includes cross-land fees for the project requirements and overhead and profit for the total change order amount of 19,588,836. With approval of this change order and the just approved easement vacation, we can start foundations immediately. There will be future change orders for exterior finishes, interior finishes, street and landscape. And those change orders will be put up for your approval, just as the decisions will be coordinated with the Cultural Arts Corridor Project. This change order will also encumber all the funds from the referendum that was approved by the voters. However, the change orders will still come to Council for approval, As could we are a part party to the contract, but all the funding will be by the library Do we feel that this is well within kind of the compounds of what the voters voted on this is in budget this is Maybe we approve the resolution one second we have a motion and second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council here we go all right we're on our way now so would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right number six in order to prohibit the purchase of expanded polystyrene foam within the city of Pebble Monies to end the use of expanded polystyrene foam products by city concessionaires and food trucks in city parks and city off-street parking lots and to raise public awareness of the ecological damages caused by this project. Kit. Now, before I actually read the body of this, we have made a couple of proposed amendments. Okay. I want to thank Councilmember Marsh for bringing up some of the construction materials that are used, styrofoam. We need to maintain the ability to use that. And I also want to thank Wayne Abernathy, who just left. But thank you, Wayne. He provided me a list of construction projects that use styrofoam both for insulation and also sometimes structurally to make construction easier. And I have – if you – We'll look on what I handed out to you. I highlighted the new language in there that would take care of most of that. I do see that Sarah is wanting to say something. Yes, Sarah? Hi. Would actually like to amend their proposed language Yeah, and so I really appreciate this I feel like it's a little bit too specific And with the nature of the construction industry and the new Products that are constantly on coming out. I feel like we should simplify it by saying basically after EPS for dock flotation and Saying in construction materials used for insulating, air sealing, structural stability, weight reduction, or form work remaining in place post occupancy. And so that will allow us to do things like insulate underneath concrete slabs, seal pipes, or use some EPS to seal some of our older leaky buildings. And really just with the idea that this leaves us free to use these products that are intended to stay with the building and perform for the life of the building. These are not single-use products that are thrown away after construction. I tried to include general uses when I said, and other accepted construction uses of expanded polished styrene foam. uh, which said to include spray insulation, if comparable construction materials are not available or too costly. So I tried to have a general catch all phrase too, but if you would, if you would like your language, I'll put that language in. I would prefer it because that way, instead of focusing on the products, we're focusing on the use of the product. And, you know, and if it is to insulate and save energy, if it is, you know, to serve it, solve a geotech problem, or if it is to reduce the weight of concrete by incorporating, um, post-consumer EPS as aggregate. I think that leaves us open so that we're focused more on making sure that it's contributing to the long-term building performance, whatever that product may be. I've got to say, I don't have that all written down. I sent you an email and so it should be in your inbox now, but if you'd like me to read it again for the clerk I'd be happy to yeah Posing that we amend it to say for duct flotation and construction materials used for insulating air sealing structural stability and weight reduction or form work remaining in place post occupancy. Okay good. And you don't want to have in there if comparable construction materials are not available or too costly? Would that require someone who wanted to use these products to do a cost comparison? because you know if you look at something like a geofoam are they gonna have to figure out what it would be to fill that with concrete when this is the more It would simply, I don't think it would require much of a cost comparison, but there would be at least some look at other products that might be almost as effective as styrofoam, but maybe a little more costly, and then some would be way too much costly. So that would allow the staff... the city staff to look at our project and see can we in fact find some comparable material that performs like styrofoam and yet does not have as many of the bad characteristics of styrofoam when we finally eventually sometime will have to get rid of it Okay, well, I just don't want to put the burden on staff where they're going to have to bid out different systems. And, you know, if the architect or engineer includes these as part of their best practice, I don't want staff to have to go back and question that and figure out what an estimate would be to use rockwool insulation instead of styrofoam on a subgrade insulation period. It just, it seems like you're adding a lot of work, and when oftentimes these products are, They're very specific in how they're used. And so, you know, you can't build a structural insulated panel using any other type of insulation. Insulated concrete forms are much more efficient, but then would they have to price out plywood forms? which again not unless they'd be comparable if they're not comparable then they wouldn't have to look at well they have the same role on a construction site of forming a concrete wall but the difference being that the styrofoam stays in place for the life of the structure whereas the formwork is taken off and oftentimes thrown in the landfill And then, you know, are we looking at the, you know, the certification of the form work and if it's FSC certified or something. There's a lot of different factors that go into environmental construction. And, you know, we're already requiring that new city buildings meet LEED silver standards, and that's going to weed out a lot of Um, unnecessary uses of these products. So I don't feel that that's necessary. It's not a deal breaker for me if you want to include it. It's up to the city council, but there are a lot of these products are things that there's not a great, um, alternative for. And I just don't want to make more work for the design teams and, you know, people who are costing out these projects when sometimes, you know, there's just no better way to insulate a concrete slab than with expanded polystyrene. Okay. So that's your amendment, correct? Yes, that is my amendment. I'm sticking with it. All right. The key phrase in that amendment to me was the remaining in place post-construction. I see the bulk of the ordinance here addressing the – problems with recycling styrofoam, sorry, expanded polystyrene foam. And for construction purposes, it is an alternative material here with the intent of staying there. It's not going to be disposed of. So for that reason, I would second Sarah's motion. So you're doing, you've got second, right? All right, all right. Do we have any public comments on the amendment? Stay with the amendment. Now, here's the rules for everybody. Everybody gets one term at the microphone. You have a five-minute limit. Unless the council, by motion in a second and a vote of the council, gives you more time, they'll determine how much time that will be. Keep your comments addressed to me. Stay on the topic and give us your name and address and away we go. Well, I just came to support this idea. And I'm thinking, of course, of takeout containers and things like that. So, you know, the amendment. is beyond my expertise and sounds fine, but I think it's a great idea, and it will surely help with recycling, you know, because if people use cardboard containers instead, then they can be recycled if they're not too messy, but I just wanted to support it. I think it's a great idea, and it seems like it's, you know, going in the right direction. Maybe the city can be the leader in making a good example for businesses to follow suit. So I thank you for considering this. Sure. Now remember, everybody, the amendment is on the use of polystyrene for certain construction materials, basically. We'll get to the overall amended. That's okay. You can speak again. That's cool. Anyone else like to speak on the amendment? Okay. I'm going to break. Okay. It's on the construction materials. Okay. Okay. I just see this as a good start. We live in a beautiful land. The savages we took it from did everything they could to preserve it for seven generations. Styrene, polystyrene in any form doesn't break down. Sorry to bore you, but I just think we need to do all we can to clean this world up because we're in dire straits here. I wish I knew all the technicalities of polystyrene. But I do know we need to care more about our world, our children's world, our grandchildren's world, than we care about the money. We don't need to complicate this thing. Let's just do what we can to clean it up. Sorry I don't know more and can't be more whatever. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on the amendment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So we have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Matthew. Yeah, I guess I'm in favor of the amendment, but I hate to be the person to do this. The way this is written, it bans, or correct me if I'm wrong, styrofoam that comes in a box. Something else gets purchased. It does not. It doesn't. It says in all circumstances except for construction. In any case, I'll vote for the amendment if it doesn't, but it seems to me a much simpler language would just ban this with respect to food service. Any other comments? Yes. All right, let's vote on the amendment. Let me explain why it doesn't ban styrofoam that's used for packing, because we don't buy it. We're buying the product. And originally we looked at that because I don't like all that waste, but we do not buy enough products for the manufacturers to change their process not to put styrofoam in. But, see, we're not intentionally buying styrofoam. It's showing up. We're buying the product. Okay. All right. All right. You have the comments on the amendment. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now we're going to do a joint reading of the ordinance, Sarah. I will read it until we get to your part, and then you get to read your part, and I will continue. It's a happy little duet. All right. Whereas items of expanded polystyrene foam, commonly referred to brand name styrofoam, are on the top ten most littered items in our country and cause unsightly litter that necessitates time-consuming and difficult cleanup efforts. And whereas this expanded polystyrene foam does not biodegrade, but rather breaks down into smaller particles that pollute our natural and built environment. And whereas this foam is made from the monomer styrene, which is a suspected human carcinogen and a known neurotoxin. And whereas the city of Fayetteville should ban most of the uses and purchases of expanded polystyrene foam by the city. And whereas the City Council of the City of Fayetteville declares it is in the best interest of the health and welfare of its residents, visitors, and employees to reduce the litter and pollutants on the land and in the waters of Fayetteville. And whereas the City of Fayetteville is dedicated to reducing the volume of items entering our landfill through holistic recycling programs. And whereas, although the City of Fayetteville has a robust recycling program, it is not feasible, practical, or effective to attempt to recycle expanded polystyrene foam. And whereas, there are readily available and reasonable cost alternatives to expanded polystyrene foam that can be recycled or composted by Fayetteville. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby prohibits the purchase of expanded polystyrene EPS foam products by all city departments, with the exception of encapsulated EPS for dock flotation and construction materials used for insulating, air sealing, structural stability, weight reduction, or formwork remaining in place post-occupancy. The City Council further prohibits any businesses, including but not limited to catering companies, from providing expanded polystyrene foam products such as plates, bowls, and cups when the City of Fayetteville has purchased their services. Then section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Hereby request that the administration ensure through appropriate contracts or otherwise that all entities Operating concession stands boat docks food trucks or similar businesses on city-owned property including all city-owned parks and city-owned off-street parking lots and as soon as possible any purchasing and use of any expanded polystyrene foam products and such as plates bowls cups and similar items the City Council hereby empowers the administration to bar food trucks that stock Supply to customers or otherwise use expanded polystyrene foam products from serving customers while in any city-owned off-street parking lot or city-owned park by November 1st 2019 Section 3, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby request that the University of Arkansas Board of Trustees, the Fayetteville School Board, the Advertising and Promotion Commission, and the governing bodies of the Fayetteville Public Library, Walton Arts Center, and Theatre Squared join in this effort to promptly reduce and soon eliminate the use of expanded polystyrene foam products within their facilities and prohibit caterers from bringing such products into their facilities. Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determines that acceptable alternatives to EPS foam products include, but are not limited to, paper, fiber, and compostable products. Section 5, that that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby further agrees to support the general goal of reducing EPS foam products used by citizens, other government entities, and businesses throughout the City of Fayetteville by promoting awareness of the issues surrounding expanded polystyrene foam and by promoting the adoption of reasonably priced alternatives. And this has been through the Environmental Action Committee. It was sponsored and much input from Alderman or Council Member Teresa Turk, which I want to thank. She's the sponsor of this. I also wanted to say that we realize that many of our partners that we've asked to start doing this have already been doing it. For example, I'm drinking water tonight in a glass that I got, a plastic glass I got from the town center. which is recyclable and compostable. And here is... a little styrofoam container, and here is a container that looks kind of like it, has a different feel, and is mainly over 90% biodegradable, so that there are reasonable cost alternatives that are out there, and many of our partners, including the library, Walton Arts Center, Theater Squared, and the A&P Commission are already strongly in favor of what we're doing tonight. Teresa. thank you mayor um little rock last year actually passed a resolution to ban polystyrene um it from there from the purchase of from the city purchasing those products and some of their vendors our resolution tonight goes a step further uh this is an ordinance and i'm hoping you know fable leads on so many different things i mean our our solar park that we're going to have is incredible. And this is just the next step I hope that we can do to lead by example. A report came out yesterday that over one million species are on the brink of extinction or have been or are extinct from human use. And it's time for us to clean up some of our trash. We have alternatives. Kit kind of stole my thunder, but I've got another... carry out container that's compostable that you can, I think I've washed this at least five or six times. So when, uh, when it gets really nasty, I'll just tear it up and it would go on my compost pile. So anything that we can do to encourage reducing our waste, I think is a good thing. Um, and, uh, I just also want to say that we're giving this a six-month sort of grace period if we pass it So that people can get used to this they can plan for it So it's not a surprise and so if they have product already existing product that's our foam They can use that up and and then also I hope that our our other partners, not just the Walton Arts Center and Theater Square, but the university and other restaurants will really consider reducing and eliminating the styrofoam containers and go to something like this. I thank everybody, especially the EAC, the Environmental Action Committee, and others, and Sarah tonight even, for trying to make this ordinance much better and more effective. Okay. Thank you, Teresa. Sarah? I just want to say thank you to Council Member Turk for bringing this forward. I think this is excellent, and I'm glad that we're going to clean our own ship up first. But I also want us to... Use this as an opportunity to encourage the community to be more mindful about waste, especially in terms of single-use plastics and styrofoams. And just a reminder to take your own reusable cloth bag or to-go cup. And to say no to straws and lids. And if you are at a place and you want something to go, ask for a biodegradable container. You know, if they bring you styrofoam, submit a preference. Because consumer preferences can really help affect the entire community and help us eliminate this scourge from our environment. I spend a lot of time picking up plastic bags and styrofoam cups out of my creek that goes through my neighborhood or out of my yard that blows in. So this is definitely needed and I appreciate that you all supported the amendment for helping us incorporate these products into construction because it is the highest R value in terms of dollars that you can get and long term energy savings is a place where using this product is more appropriate but definitely not in the single use. So with that I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. well let me take some public i mean go ahead don mayor thank you um i wanted to just highlight a couple of items because um when we pass new laws and ordinances or laws we get calls and contacts on on these items obviously this is the city leading as a leadership role what That does not mean that you might not see a citizen who purchased something that they took to a picnic table in a park that they purchased or a staff member who brings their lunch left over from a restaurant that has not converted yet. So I'm just saying that in terms of on the record for people to understand that this is us leading by example, and we hope through that dialogue, and more importantly, the point in this ordinance that talks about educating the public and others about justice. what we're trying to do by being a leader and example doesn't mean that we're going to see it eliminated even in certain city facilities where it was not purchased by the city. So we're already working towards the implementation of this regardless of the November 1 effective time period for our parks concessions and our potlucks and various events and things that we do here at the city with our own workforce, but I just didn't want someone accosting a member of the public or a staff member if they saw someone with a styrofoam container because this ordinance is specific to the purchasing power of the city okay let me get some public comment then we'll we'll go back to the all right everybody gets one turn at the mic five minute limit unless council by vote of the council gives you more time keep your comments to me stay on topic and please give us your name and address here we go Hello, my name is Abel Tomlinson. I live in 60 West Smith Street, Fayetteville. First, I want to just say thank you to Teresa Turk for showing some courage and leadership. I've brought this issue up to leaders in the past, and they weren't as interested, so I'm really happy that someone's brought this forward. I strongly support this measure and urge the council to pass it, but I also urge you to not stop here, to keep going, go much further forward And really compared to other cities and states and countries, this is still kind of a conservative measure. Just from my own personal experience, part of the reason I support this so much is we can read about all the animals dying from all the plastic and everything, but I have direct experience. I garden and do landscaping in Fayetteville for several different homeowners, and one of them owns a large piece of property on the edge of Fayetteville. It's part of the watershed, and it has a creek and a pond. I work in the forest removing invasive species and taking care of their other plants. And I also, when I go through the forest, I pick up trash that comes down through the creeks. I pick up bags and bags of trash every year. And most trash you can pick up. You can pick up plastic bottles. You can pick up trash. cans. I mostly focus on plastic because it's the worst, but I pick up bags of these things and the worst thing by far is the styrofoam and it's not just the containers. One of the biggest thing I see is styrofoam cups from fast-food restaurants, sonic cups. And that's why I really wish this went farther personally, but I support anything. Anything's better than nothing, but I wish we could see sonic cups for instance disappear because I I mean, a plastic bottle is thrown out the window, and I might be able to find that in the creek, but a sonic cup blows out the back of a pickup truck, and a heavy storm happens. It smashes against rocks and limbs, and it breaks into millions of particles. It's impossible to pick up. Yeah. Also, I've been to beaches. I pick up trash at the lakes around here, Lake Fayetteville, Lake Weddington, and various parts of the watershed. I see this trash everywhere. I also went with my wife to Texas and the beach there and picked up a lot of trash on the beach. I noticed the plastic bottles. I didn't think anything at first, but they have diamond shapes on them. cut out of them. And I went to the nature center there and they said, that's the sea turtles. They're eating them. They think they're jellyfish. And when I was a teenager, I actually, to be honest with you, I littered a little bit because I didn't understand that when you throw something out the car, it washes into the creek, that washes into the river, that washes into the ocean. It doesn't just stay there on the ground and I wasn't really taught. So we really need to go much further and many other places have gone far further and I feel like it's a little bit embarrassing that we're supposed to be the progressive city in Arkansas, this is a natural state and it's taking so long to do something like this. But I'm happy we're starting. I'm sure you know these statistics, over 200 municipalities have banned or put taxes on plastic bags. 32 countries have banned plastic bags. My wife's country of France banned plastic bags. You can't get a single-use plastic bag in France. Of the 32 countries that banned plastic bags, 18 are in Africa. You know, we like to say, we're number one, we're number one. In Africa, those are developing poor nations or, you know, savages or whatever. And they're ahead of us. But part of the reason is malaria. The plastic bags plug up drains and cause more mosquitoes, and a lot of people are dying from malaria. But 18 countries did that, and I think India and China have even made progress. San Francisco recently banned plastic bottles, COVID. I just feel like, I don't know, just please don't stop here. Please keep going. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. All right. Who would be next? My name is Nathan Hudson. I live at 724 North Washington Avenue here in Fayetteville. I want to second everything Abel said. I spent three years in Afghanistan. One of the nicknames we had for that country was Trashganistan. We don't see all of the trash we make. They have nowhere to put it. It piles up in the streets. I mean, it blew my mind, the amount of trash everywhere. And I just want to thank you guys for bringing this item up to a vote. And I just want to remind everybody that we in this country – I don't know, where does it go? In landfills? Do we ship it to other third world countries? I mean, we really don't see the real effects of plastic, styrofoam, things that don't break down. The third world countries don't have the ability to get rid of it like we do, and it's appalling. And so, like Abel said, let's do this and let's keep pushing for more. Because we're really privileged here, or privileged might not even be the right word. We're blinded by not seeing the actual real effects of the products we use, the packaging, the plastic bottles. It goes much further than the styrofoam, but I applaud you, Teresa, for bringing this issue forward. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hi, I'm Marilyn Shoffit. I live at 1663 North Old Wire. Thank you so much. I have refused for about two years to take any to-go food. I just say, well, if you're going to put it in the styrofoam, forget it. And I pull out of the line, and that's most of the time, because I want them to know. that they're not going to sell me anything, and we can control that with our dollars. I just canceled my Amazon account because everything I ordered came in these big pieces that I didn't know what to do with. And I had to break them up and try to put them in my garden and all kinds of things. It just made me crazy. So I just canceled the account. That means I'm going to shop local. And if they will give me the product that I need to eat from, or let me bring my own, then I'll buy their food instead of having to cook it myself. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council now. Sarah, I believe you had a motion in the second to go to the second reading. Yes. Don, did you have something else? Okay. Sloan. Sorry, are we waiting for a second? Yeah, we are. Second. Okay. Okay. Shonda, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance prohibit the purchase of expanded polystyrene foam with city affable monies to end the use of polystyrene foam products by city concessionaires and food trucks in city parks and city off-street parking lots. and to raise public awareness of the ecological damages caused by this product chris mayor and council members i'd like to hold this on the second reading in order to give the citizens more time to take a look at this and if they have some more comments or refinements they could speak next time so I've kind of tried to make that a policy about some of the rezoning issues that are before us so I'd like to be consistent with this ordinance that I that I sponsored if that would be okay with my colleagues so we'll hold it here I'm definitely supportive of the The ordinance and grateful for it, but my question is why is this limited to the city? I mean, I'm counting votes up here and it looks to me like there's a council that's generally supportive of a citywide action and so I was just hoping for An answer or why this is limited to city purchases either way. I'm gonna vote for it. I can respond to that. I So I really thought that we should start slowly with this to see how well this went, see if we had a lot of support. to give people an idea of that the world is not gonna the Sky is not gonna fall if we if we pass an ordinance such as this and so if everything went well We had a lot of public support then maybe it would be expanded but that was sort of my my thought process Start start slow and see how things would and I can say I I I Discuss this with Teresa about that. We have more inherent power as the owner and the spender of money to say that we're not going to buy any. We also have more power as the owner of land to say you will not use a product on our land. Once we get purely into our regulatory power, then we don't have as necessarily as much power. and I thought that it probably makes more sense to be an example and work with our other governmental entities as examples, but I do think that in the future we're probably going to get support. When I mentioned this at a restaurant where somebody brought me, for my initial glass, a Styrofoam cup, and I said, well, we're going to ban these things, and my waitress said, good. So I think that once we raise awareness... then we might certainly be able to move to a broader regulatory regime to do this, and yet I think it makes sense for the city to go first and say, we can do it and we will do it before we ask the general population and the general commercial establishment to do that. So that's one reason we wanted to make sure we had a good first step. Certainly, I don't think it's our last step. This isn't the only product that Teresa is interested in looking at. And so I think that we're moving in the right direction. We're not like Maine yet. It would be real nice if Arkansas would ban it. But I think it will be a while before our state ever does it. And the timing for this was basically so that we wouldn't get some sort of bill out of the state legislature saying, oh, doubt shall not do any bans of styrofoam. So we are moving forward now, but I think we need to be very careful and measure it in our steps. Okay. Matt? I appreciate those points. And I just would say clearly, well, I guess over the next two weeks I'll be considering – an amendment or somebody else were to make an amendment i'd be considering seconding it to make it larger i do appreciate those points but i think environmental emergencies demand emergency action and this is one of those single use bags we can talk about a lot of things and a lot of my voids are votes are organized around that principle whether they're explicitly environmental or not so in any case i appreciate the time i don't want to trivialize this ordinance at all i'm eager to vote for it But I also think the time might be right to go all the way. Mark? Well, Kit, you brought up a point that had already crossed my mind. And I was wondering if we could, in an amendment, go ahead and, okay, I'm thinking if we do this for the City of Fayetteville, right, then by the time we have the opportunity to expand it across the community. then the state legislature might step in and prevent it. Whereas if we went ahead, could we somehow step in, like in November it's going to be the city, but in January it's going to be citywide, something like that? Well, certainly. Of course, it's totally up to the city council. You do what you want to do. My suggestion would be is that we go first, but we don't wait for a year so that there would be some sort of preemptive measure made. But also, I don't want to rush into it next week. I haven't gotten anything drafted. I haven't got anything researched about problems with Interstate Commerce Act and things like that that you run into when you get into regulations that you don't run into when you're the landlord or owner. And so one thing I don't want to do is have a false start where we do something that is technically or possibly beyond our power. That's why I wanted to start here. and be the example and lead from the front here where we're going to be the ones not getting the styrofoam and Try to have a support front voluntary support rather than saying okay now the city's here We're going to tell you exactly what to do and everybody's got to conform I think that we will be much more successful if we can show we're going to do it and then we move much more slowly into saying and Businesses, you know, we don't want you to do it either in fact I We're not going to lynch you to it because that's a big step, and I think that we need to make sure that we don't get ahead of the curve on that. Okay. Mark? Well, it is a big step. This is a big step. That's a giant step. And to me, the difference in a big step and a giant step is a little step. So I would like to see some plan to go forward with a community-wide ban on Starclone, just my personal opinion. Sure. You know, everybody's had some really good comments here, and I appreciate all the hard work that Teresa's put forward on this. And I understand her reason to be a little cautious. We've been attacked, basically, on many fronts from our fellows in Little Rock for some of the things that I took for granted were part of our city and had been for a long time. I think that over the next course of, you know, we can listen to Kit and get our ducks in a row and, you know, who knows better than Kit about trying to get things lined out like that. I think we can get everything lined out and move a little more forward. um quickly in the future but maybe not right now so i'm in favor of more dramatic gesture on behalf of the city but but i'm okay with what we have right now as a baby step thank you well it's more than a baby step i think but i let me let me let you know i've heard you And Teresa's heard you, and in fact, I think Teresa obviously is interested in going forward, too, not only with this, but plastic bags at some point, too. And I've looked at some of the ordinances that other states have done on that. But I do want enough time so that anything we do is going to be done as safely as possible, as effectively as possible. And I'm really not there yet. I'm about to get the brief from the other side has challenged the Markham Hill rezoning. So I'll be having to write our brief. So that's going to take up some of my time, but I can certainly be looking at this. Obviously there are a lot of issues going on also with the passage of the bonds. We're trying to buy land. We're looking at different projects. We're trying to sell the bonds. So we have many things running through my office at this point in time, and I want to make sure that when I go the next step on this to a regulatory procedure, That we're doing it as carefully and effectively as possible So I don't you know, I just want to be careful that we don't trip going out of the starting gate I think is occasionally we talked about you can count the votes up here just from the comments Figured I'd add mine to me. We there are so many things that we want to do in this town That we know certain legislators in Little Rock disagree with and But at some point, I think we have to recognize that if the state bans us from taking action, it's no different than if we never try to take the action ourselves. And this is one of those things that I think we could take the step forward, and I will be right there with you. whether it's an amendment next week or taking our time to make sure we really get it right I want to be respectful of city attorneys time because I know that they have a lot going through that office so I'm in no rush but when when we're ready I'm ready Well, I want to say I appreciate all the support around the table here and in the audience. I really do. We just wanted to start with a win. You know, small little steps. And there's certainly more to come. So don't think that the Environmental Action Committee or myself is going to stop at this because we have much to do in Fayetteville to make it greener. We like to think of how green we are. We have a lot of catching up to do. So I hope we can get caught up, change our behavior quite a bit by not using single-use materials, and also encourage all of these great restaurants and other businesses around here to be more thoughtful, more mindful, And in their purchasing and the products that they put forward. So, um, I do appreciate all of that and um, Thank you. Okay. Well, I guess we will leave it here. Um, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? All right mayor a couple of uh, several announcements tonight first we have uh on May the 11th, the grand opening of our new splash pad at Walker Park. That's on Saturday, May the 11th at 1 p.m., and we'll be celebrating that opening. The mayor will be speaking. Both of our council members from Ward 1 are speaking. We're going to invite the members of the public out. Walker Park is located at 1087 South Block Avenue, and I hope the rest of the council will come out as well as we continue to move forward with these initiatives. Thank you. Secondly, as a part of our welcoming plan and continued inclusion of people, I want to highlight that the City of Fayetteville announced our website adds new accessibility features for both visual impairment and language differences, tools that make that available to people today. So there's a news item on the front page that tells you about that for individuals who want language translation and new accessibility features on our website. So we're now fully compliant with all requirements as it relates to our electronic means. Also, our Gully Park Summer Concert Series has been announced. And the first, so you got a couple of weeks to plan. The first concert is May the 30th. It's a group called Arkansas. So we'll announce that again a little closer to the date, but mark your calendars for May the 30th. Also we have a lot of work that's going to be taking place this summer. This is even before we start all the work on our bond projects. But we have a significant water main replacement, a lot of utility work, and university projects taking place on Thomas Avenue that begins this week. It affects our Ward 4 constituents, citizens. So we want to make sure that they're aware. Information about that project is on the website. City's website as well as a news item this project will continue through mid-july there are also some significant road closures related to Razorback Road and Maple Street that could affect your summer commute That's trying to be done from the time that the university in ends their spring semester before they begin their fall semester. So look for that information and plan for that within your item. We've also had a ton of questions, as I know you have, about the timing of our 2019 bond initiative, when people will see projects. I think there's a perception that the shovel was going to go in the ground on Wednesday, April the 10th. I just want to be clear that before we can do anything, we have to have our bond ordinances written. They have to come to the council for approval. They have to be sold. The proceeds have to be accepted. And then the council has to begin to appropriate the money. And we'll be doing all of those items between now and September the 17th, depending on how many readings you go. Okay. The staff is working with the mayor to identify the list of projects which we'll be highlighting with the council so you know what we're planning to do in phase one of each of the 10 questions. But some projects will only have design work in phase one that may not be constructed until the second phase, much like Rupert Road was constructed in the last phase of the prior road bond project simply because of its size and work that had to be done. But that timetable is on the city's website. If you go to your tax dollars at work and click on the 2019 bond information, you will see that timetable for when the funding is expected to come to the council in that initial phase. And then we will use that page to keep projects updated as we move forward with this project. Also want to add that the 71B corridor plan has got a lot of meetings that are coming up this week. There are two opportunities for the public. There's a May 13th meeting. Um, where we will have the presented draft format to the planning commissions. That's a public opportunity for people to also weigh in on that. The steering committee is also meeting on that same day that is open to the public. May 14th of the council. We have a couple of meetings on your calendar related to that project. One, the city staff is hosting an open house for council members to review the draft of the plan here in City Hall, room 326 at 3 p.m. on May 14th. There is also an agenda session presentation on that day for folks that can't make that council briefing. And then of course we'll present more details of the draft plan to the Transportation Committee following agenda session that night to get additional comments away. I want to say this is a draft plan. It is not a completed plan. And so we're at the point of trying to get feedback on those particular projects. Is there anything else you want to add, Garner, that I haven't yet? We're calling it rethinking 71B, and I think the critical point is that we're still thinking, and we need your thoughts. Don, what time did you say the council briefing was again? At 3 p.m. Thank you. And that's all the announcements I have, Mayor. What other announcements do we have? Oh, I do have one more announcement. I'm sorry. This weekend is the primary graduation for the University of Arkansas, so we have a lot of... visitors, guests, parents, investors who have spent money and tax dollars in our city over the last several years. So just we want to welcome them. We want to congratulate them on their successful completion of their degree and let you know that if you see people who look like they're lost or don't know where to turn or something of that nature, please help them out as we have a lot of visitors coming to town this weekend. along with events, baseball series, games. There's a lot of activity, so it should be an exciting time in Fayetteville this weekend. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.