Good evening everyone. I would like, sorry about that I didn't realize it was gonna be so loud, I would like to welcome you all to the City Council meeting of City of Fayetteville May 3rd 2022 and before we we call the roll I just like to say that I am Vice Mayor Sarah Bunch and I'm conducting meetings for
 for Mayor Jordan while he is recuperating from a surgery that he's had done. And he's able to do all of the daily business. He just needs to do it from a distance a little bit. So the meetings I will be conducting until he gets his doctors okay and comes back. So I'll be reading the
 Probably jumbling it up the first couple of times, honestly, but reading the agenda items and calling for votes and things like that. And I'll have to rely on staff to help me a little bit, probably a lot this first couple of times. And we'll just do the best we can and we'll get through it and it will all work out fine. Thank you. So our first item is, Kara, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Kenyon here Whitaker here Scroggins present butch here Kurt here Hertzberg here Harvey here Jones here. Would you please join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I
 Okay, our first item of business is we have a recognized two civilians and for
 demonstrating life-saving heroic service at the scene of a motor vehicle accident. And Chief Harden, you have that, I believe. I do. Good evening, counsel. This, I think I've been here for 22 years, and I believe this is only the second time that I'm aware of this occurring. So I'm very proud to be able to present it. So. Thank you.
 On March 14, 2022, Fayetteville Fire Apparatus Ladder 3, Engine 5, and Battalion 1 responded to a motor vehicle accident with vehicles flipped upside down and fully involved in fire. Prior to our arrival, two bystanders had cut the seatbelt and removed the driver from the burning vehicle. We want to recognize these gentlemen for their courage and for selflessly going above and beyond.
 They put their lives in danger to save the lives of a stranger. Had it not been for their actions, it is unlikely the driver would have survived. Here to present the certificate is Battalion Chief Flood. He was in command on the evening of the event. Thanks, Chief Harden. On the afternoon of March 14, 2022, two individuals came upon an overturned vehicle on fire.
 Noting that there was still an occupant inside the vehicle, these persons rushed to action to great personal risk to themselves and removed the victim from the burning car. The Fayetteville Fire Department and the City of Fayetteville would like to recognize Griffin Webb and Wes Wooten for their quick thinking, bravery, and courage in the face of an emergency that no doubt saved the life of another individual. Gentlemen, thank you. We really appreciate you guys stepping up.
 Our next item of business will be the monthly financial report presented by Paul Becker. Good evening. This report will be for the month of March, so we're done with first quarter of 2022. Our revenues are very strong and continue to be strong through the first quarter.
 Sales tax was up 16% compared to budget expectations. Franchise fees were up about 12%. Building permits are very strong. They have been up about 60% to what we had anticipated at this point in time. All in all, the total revenue for the city is up 15% at this point in time at the end of the first quarter.
 As far as the street fund goes, the street fund also is going along and is fairly strong at this point in time. Most of the funds in the street fund again come from the motor fuels turn back and the sales tax on gasoline sales for the state. So we're up roughly about 15% at this point in time through the first quarter 2022.
 as we look on to the parking farm. Parking fund is doing very well, especially compared to last year. Right now we're up
 as far as these are roughly 35 to 40 percent but about 39 at this point in time that's very strong compared to last year as especially our dixon street area started come back as far as hotel hotels motels and restaurants are concerned in the entertainment district parks development fees are
 About $127,000 so far this year. It's 15% over the budget, so that's going fairly strong at this point in time also. Recycling and trash collections are down a bit. They're down about 6% under budget at this point in time. Trash and recycling, or recycling and trash collection, excuse me, at this point in time is, or sort of in a cross-sub,
 Cross-action right now. Residential is up. Commercial is down. I think a lot of businesses don't quite know what direction to go at this point in time. So some of the collections for the commercial enterprises are down, but residential is up. So we're down a little bit, about 6% at this point in time. I'm not concerned about that.
 at this point that's the only actual fund that we are down at this point in time now water and sewer billings are up about four percent in total compared to last year three percent of that would be for increases that automatically go into effect uh at the uh first uh first of january each year so water and sewer billings are strong at this point in time airport revenues are up over 50 percent their fuel sales are
 very strong at this point in time, so that's good. We need those collections, especially to match federal grants we have going forward. So all in all, through March, our revenue's been very strong. Our county looks like it's coming back pretty well in all segments. The only thing that's down a little bit is recycling and trash collection, but that'll probably pick up toward the end of the year. And based on that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. All right.
 Do we have any questions for Paul? Thank you, Paul. Our next item, I believe we have a walk-on presented by Councilmember Harvey. So it is a resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewer system beyond the city limits to property located at or near 4594 East Huntsville Road. Sonia, are you there? Yes.
 I am. Thank you, Vice Mayor. Yes, I would like to move that we add this item to the agenda. Is that correct, Kit? Am I doing that right? Yes. Before we can actually hear the resolution itself, we must suspend the rules, or the City Council would have to suspend the rules and add it to the agenda. I move we suspend the rules and add it to the agenda. Second. Second.
 Okay, sorry about that. We have a motion and a second to add this to the agenda. Kara, will you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 And vice mayor, since this was not presented at the agenda session or any time, I usually read the resolution itself. Okay, I'll read it again. The thing that I read? Okay, all right. So I'm sorry, Sonia, about this, but this is a resolution to approve an extension of the city sewer system beyond the city limits to property located at or near 4594 East Huntsville Road. So Sonia, you're on now.
 Okay, thank you, Vice Mayor, and thank you, Kit.
 Do I need to go ahead and potentially present the item and everything so it's added and now we're going to present it? Or do we need to place it on the agenda, Kit? Well, the body of the resolution probably should be read. That's what I was going to do. Oh, okay. Sorry, Kit. I misunderstood you. Okay, Kit, go for it. Okay. Whereas Section 51.113, Sewer Service and Extension Policy, states that, quote, the city's sewage system...
 shall not be extended outside the city's corporate limits except on the express approval of the city council, unquote. And whereas Rob Pressman has requested to connect to the city sewer main that currently runs near his property located at 4594 East Huntsville Road. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves the request by Rob Pressman for an extension of the city sewer system beyond the city limits to his property located at 4594 East Huntsville Road upon payment of the necessary tapping fee and any other costs required to make the sewer connection. And so now, Sonia, you should probably try to explain the reason that you're bringing this forward. Thank you.
 Okay, great. Thank you. Yes, so I've been working on this since August of last year with Mr. Pressman and Mr. Pressman and Linda is his wife They have they've been ten-year longtime friends of mine. I just want to put that out in the open and clear and
 So I know them personally. Mr. Pressman is a designer and an illustrator. He works as designing headstones here in Fayetteville. And he's worked as a designer and illustrator here in Fayetteville, which is how I know him because he taught for me at New Design School. So those are my personal connections.
 So the long story short is as in these last 10 years, I have seen them struggle through numerous medical situations with Ms. Linda. And so now they're at the point where they're looking at retiring. They've lived in the city limits this whole time. And they were able to buy a property that's just on the outside of the city limits.
 for their retirement plan. And so what they're going to do is they're gonna move there and get a mobile home to be placed on the property. And then they're going to be able to, with the sale, pay off their medical bills to become pretty much debt free and then be able to work on their retirement. So in the process, they still need access to the water and the sewer.
 in order to connect their mobile home to have water.
 So one of the things that was really important, as we just typically don't connect to the arts here, was a hardship case. So I'm bringing this forward as a financial hardship case on behalf of Mr. Pressman and Ms. Linda so that they can have the retirement since they have been in Fit City for many, many, many years and now are looking to be contiguous. But with the mobile home situation, it makes it difficult for,
 to have that on property and also be annexed and also plan for their debt-free retirement. So that's why I'm bringing it forward and advocating on their behalf. Sonia, I have a question. Has this been to the Water and Sewer Committee? That, I believe, is a good question. I think I was intending to bring it to the Water and Sewer. I know Corey and I have been working on it since August of last year.
 I am not sure. I would ask Corey if it ever went. Vice Mayor, Tim Nyander is on and he can. OK. OK, great. Thank you. No, this has not been to the water security community just because it hadn't come to fruition until recently. I don't think it's really a requirement at this point as long as the council hears all the details right now. OK. OK. Thank you, Tim.
 Yes, thanks, Tim. So Tim has been in the loop on this as well since August. And so that was my understanding as well is that everything the city has seen everything and they say everything is possible. It's more of, you know, are we are we going to grant them permission to connect or not? And that is on the council's decision by the council.
 Okay. I do believe Mr. Pressman, I'm hoping that he, I did send him the link to be available for questions, but hopefully I can answer questions, any questions you guys might have. Okay, okay. Do you, so he's not available, is that correct, Sonia? You're going to answer on his behalf, you think? Let me see if he is. Sorry.
 So, on this issue, do we ask for public comment or anything like that? Do we have a staff? Yes, there's public comment on any issue that's not a consent item. This is not a consent item. Do we have any staff commentary other than what Tim gave? I'm not aware of any. This was presented at the last moment. Okay. So, except for our utilities director, I don't know if there would be any staff comment. Okay. I don't know. Maybe...
 Chief of Staff. Tim's available should there be questions. Okay. Do we ask for public comment on this? We should. Could I ask some questions, Vice Mayor Bunch? Excuse me, Teresa. If it's okay, I'll open the floor to public comment, which I don't think there's going to be any, and then I'll bring it back to the council if that works for you.
 So, do we have any public comment? I believe our procedure is to answer questions on Zoom first and then bring it back to the chambers. Do we? We don't have anyone raising their hand on Zoom right now. Okay. Anybody in the council chamber? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council then. And Teresa, you had a question?
 I did. Thank you. So, Tim, how, I'm looking here on the map, how far out of town or from the city limits is the property? And do we have a sewer line that's close by? Certainly. There's a sewer made in a manhole that runs, that is adjacent to this property, which is also the city limits, which is adjacent to this property. So, I
 The manhole, of course, in the line is in the city limits, and then his property is just right next door. It's very close. The elevation is fine for a service connection. The utility department doesn't have any problem with the connection. Okay.
 That's excellent to hear. So, it would just be a small extension, really, from our existing operation, and the cost would be completely borne by Mr. Pressman. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yeah, there would not be any extension needed by the city because the manhole is there. The property owner would have to run the service line and then we would provide him a tap into the into this public sewer system.
 Okay. And I'm just wondering about precedent. Have we done something, have we done similar, have we had similar issues in the past where we've approved, you know, I mean, a very small extension of our service? Do you recall?
 Actually, we've went both ways in years past. We have allowed connection to those that are very close to the city limits, if not congruent to the city limits. Then we've had those that were not approved by the council. So it's been both ways. Okay. Thank you very much. I have a comment on this. If you look at the map, you can go from the South Keene Lane over...
 East and West and this makes a triangular area for this property that is it's ideal actually to be annexed into the city so it makes all sorts of sense because north of this property South Keene has Extended and I bet one of these days someone on South Keene because if you go to the edge There is some building there. So I
 think that this just the location alone makes it sensible to allow it to be part of the city system I do I did have a man may respond to mark yes
 Thanks, Mark, for bringing that up because we did have a conversation about annexation. And it became a financial hardship situation for them because they figured out the finances to do kind of what they've done and not also to be annexed. And so that's kind of the situation that came up with the conversation of annexation.
 That sounds reasonable. I certainly see the value in that. So what course of action would the council like to take on this item? I move we approve the request. Second. Yes, moving to request for the resolution to pass. Sorry, I move we approve the resolution. Second. Second.
 Okay, so we have a motion to approve the resolution and a second. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Cletaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Harvey? Yes, thank you. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you everyone. So the next item is our proposed consent agenda.
 Item number one is the approval of the April 5th, 2022 and April 19th, 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $2,639, recognizing Hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget.
 3. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a Recreational Trails Program grant in the amount of $75,000 for improvements to Kessler Mountain Natural Surface trails, to approve an agreement of understanding with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the project, and to approve a budget adjustment.
 4. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,040,600 for the purchase of additional loads of jet fuel and avgas due to increasing fuel sales and rising fuel costs.
 That's at the airport. Item five, a resolution to award RFP 20-03 and authorize a one year contract with Titan Lawn and Landscape LLC for mowing services on an as needed basis for the estimated base amount of $91,310.72 and additional services to be billed at an hourly rate provided in the contract with automatic renewals for up to four additional one year terms.
 Item 6, a resolution to approve a proposal from King Electrical Contractors, incorporated in the total amount of $62,991, pursuant to a bid number 20-58, electrical services associated with the addition of parking lot lighting at Walker Park, to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Item 7, a resolution to award bid 22-31 and authorize the purchase of a Freightliner recycling truck from Doggett Freightliner of Springdale in the total amount of $203,025 plus any additional applicable tax and shipping charges for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division.
 Item 8, a resolution to award bid 22-26 and authorize a contract with Goodwin and Goodwin Incorporated in the amount of $603,630 for the replacement of water service lines in the Schuyler subdivision and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $120,726.
 item 9 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 100 000 to cover water leak and sewer overflow damage claims that may occur in 2022 item 10 a resolution to award bid number 22 dash 30 and authorize a contract with nec incorporated in the amount of 1 million 752 736.50
 for construction of the West Center Street and North Harmon Avenue intersection project, to approve a project contingency in the amount of $175,000, and to approve a budget adjustment of, this is with a 2019 transportation bond project.
 11. A resolution to authorize acceptance of Project SAFE Neighborhood Grant Award in the amount of $28,765 for the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force and to approve a budget adjustment. 12. A resolution to authorize acceptance of Project SAFE Neighborhood Grant Award in the amount of $14,100 for the Fayetteville Police Department and to approve...
 budget adjustment I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read so moved second so we have a motion and a second care will you please call the roll Kenyon yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Harvey yes Jones yes okay thank you
 So, we're now moving on into unfinished business. Our first item of unfinished business is a resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on the property owned by Rosemary Austin, located at 2141 North Greenacres Road in the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $33,894.
 I believe Jonathan, do you have that? Jonathan Kurth? Thank you, Vice Mayor. Actually, Billy Bryant with our code enforcement group is here to present on this item. Okay. Sorry, Billy. And this item was tabled at the last meeting.
 Thank you, council. I am Billy Bryant, senior code compliance officer and I have Dennis Sanders, building safety director on Zoom for any questions. Just to give a quick update, to date no work has been done on repairing the house. The fire damaged wall remains open to the elements. No building permits have been applied for.
 There have been improvements made on removing the junk and debris around the property, but some junk and debris remain. It is worth noting that this cleanup represents remediation of the property owner's junk and debris violation, not the violation regarding habitability that is at the heart of the razor removal order.
 In other updates, the offers of assistance to Ms. Austin from Community Resources and other agencies have been extended but not accepted. It is ultimately up to the property owner if they are interested in pursuing this support. At this time, I'd like to answer a question from the agenda session regarding adjustment of the bid for work completed after the initial bid.
 If Council decides in favor of the raisin removal, the contractor for demolition will adjust the bid accordingly with the work that has already been completed by Ms. Austin. I can answer any questions at this time. I have a question. We did allow time for this. The weather's been pretty cruddy. Can you tell me more specifically, I don't know if you even know, about what offers were extended?
 I do not know. Sorry, Yolanda's on the call if you would like to hear from Yolanda. I would like to hear about that to see what... Yes, we actually did reach out to the property owner hoping that she would want to communicate with us so we could provide some resources. I think she may have just not really wanted to visit with folks from the city. So then I reached out
 to a colleague that would be able to provide resources. They communicated with me that they have made attempts to reach out. Somehow you dropped off Yolanda, I'm sorry. With her situation. Yolanda, your audio dropped. She's trying to reconnect her audio. Can you hear me? Now we can.
 Okay, I'm not sure what portion, I'll just go ahead and, we did reach out to her through community resources several times to see if we could be of assistance, provide her resources. She really did not want to,
 and communicate with the city. That being the case, I reached out to a colleague that could assist her with resources and possibly even financial assistance. She would not return calls to that group either. So at this point we have been unsuccessful in trying to provide her any kind of information or resources at all. Okay. Okay. Thanks Yolanda. Thank you Yolanda, I appreciate that. So,
 I've got a question. I know that the city has rules that if a remodel or repairs is more than 50% of the value of a property, that the entire structure has to be brought up to code. I guess in your professional opinion, would this entire building need to be brought up to code if they were to start repairing? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, do we have any more questions for staff before we go on to the applicant? Is the applicant here or someone speaking on behalf of the applicant? Thank you, Billy. For Ms. Austin? Yes, for Ms. Austin. Sorry about that. Okay. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry. And as the gentleman was just telling, they've reached out, they've done this, they've done that, and I ask her,
 Just now, and we can ask her as well, has anybody reached out to you? Has anybody called you? As far as she knows, the answer is no. There has been a tremendous amount of work done on the property. Several roll-off dumpsters full of junk has been removed. She's in a position now where we can actually start to do some meaningful work on the house.
 So our request at this point in time would be to continue to table it, and this time we'd like probably 60 days in order to do some significant work. As the gentleman pointed out a moment ago, the weather has not been kind. Yesterday I was driving over to my office and there were all these green trash barrels rolling down the street, a tremendous amount of water coming down.
 But quite a bit of work has been done and it's just a matter of proceeding. Okay. Do we have any, do I go to public comment now? We're going to ask questions from the council members. Okay, so I have Mike and, Mike what was your question? Sorry about that. My question would be, can we get
 Are you going to be the point person for city staff to contact regarding applications for housing assistance?
 had agreed at the last meeting that I would stay in contact with that, but I think the answer to that one is at this point in time, I need to. If people are actually trying to reach out to Rose and make offers or make communication, and she's not getting the call, or because of her hearing problems, she's not even hearing the phone ring, which is a possibility too, if they would contact me,
 I can make sure that she gets the message and that appropriate steps are taken. The second comment in question for you would be, we had heard originally that she was anticipating needing to reside outside of the city of Fayetteville. And so I'm looking for someone to assume responsibility on her behalf to make application with the county or other jurisdictions for housing assistance in their communities.
 And I don't want to come back in 30 days, 60 days, and find out that
 No steps have been taken to secure appropriate Reasonable housing on her behalf. So I'm looking for someone to say that they'll be the point person Pursuing that definitely progress has been made on cleaning up the yard That's absolutely wonderful But I can see where this will fall through the cracks and will be at the same point again unless Someone is her point person so you can see where I'm going with that in in
 read my mind I hope. Yeah although I would point out that in conversation with her I know she's had this kind of feeling and she rightly so I think the events that have taken place over the last year. I want to get out of Fayetteville, I don't know that she really does. I think whatever appropriate location we may be able to find she would be amenable to. Okay thank you. Mark did you have anything?
 That was your answer to me Sloan. Did you have a question? Do you have power of attorney? Say again, do you have power of attorney? I can make one up in about ten minutes. Okay. Oh I I think if we're gonna be the point person that that probably should be codified. Okay. Thank you Okay, okay Boss mayor, but could I get a clarification on your name? I couldn't hear it over the speaker. I
 Could you just repeat your name? Can you imagine asking a lawyer if they have the card and you just thought I know? The best way to get me is to tell the law. I have a quick question for the applicant. Does Ms. Austin have any resources right now to make any more improvements on the house? Or does she have any partners that could help her?
 for like clean... I understand the question. Does Ms. Austin have any resources for cleanup or for construction? Or is this on her own?
 No, actually she's using different resources that have been offered to her. Okay, thank you. Most of the cleanup that's been done has been with the little bobcat things. Okay. She doesn't own one of those. All right, thank you. Okay. So if we don't have any more questions for the...
 person representing the applicant, then I'm going to open the floor up to public comment then. And every person gets one turn to speak, five minutes in duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first.
 And then we'll go on to those that are present in the council chambers. Do we have anybody that has their hand raised on Zoom? Okay. No, ma'am. There's no one on Zoom right now. Okay. Make sure the clerk gets one. Thank you.
 So we have no, so we'll bring it back to anyone in the council chambers, please give us your name and address. Yes, I'm Martha Haywood and I reside at 2309 East Absolute in Fayetteville. And I represent Miss Austin as her real estate agent. And I have handed out pictures and you will notice they are marked before and after. I have two different sets.
 and I'm going to read my comments to you. I'm passing out these before and after pictures, and I want to give you an update from our last meeting. Scott Berna has provided the equipment that has been used at the property, including a dump truck, mini excavator, et cetera. He has also paid for two men to come in and do the work, weed eating, doing all the heavy equipment, and clearing the property that we've done so far.
 I personally have paid for the dumpster and the dumping fees, and we've had one dumpster already removed. We have another one at the property now.
 The adjoining neighbor has been gracious enough to let us put that dumpster at the back of the property near the double gate to make it easier for the removal of the extraneous items there. John David Lindsay has had someone come out and look at the exterior of the house, and we're trying to figure out how best to proceed, trying to get a permit to try and get electrical restored, et cetera. So we're working on all those items.
 Right now, we have had it rain 18 of the 30 days of April, which comes to about 9.26 inches, and that has greatly hampered our work at that property. We have lowered the price, the listing price on the property, by $200,000. That was done on April the 20th, so we are actively trying to procure a buyer.
 We have continued to search for rental properties through the MLS. We have found nothing that will allow the two dogs, and that is within her price range. So we've been unsuccessful there, but we are continuing the search, and I may start driving street by street. Thank you.
 We intend to continue to clean up the exterior of the property, making it more aesthetically pleasing and provide access in order to do the future repairs. We've discussed getting inside the house to get it cleaned out so that Ms. Austin can get furniture moved and take it to a new residence or storage once we get the house under contract.
 Right now, Rosemary and Evelyn continue to live at the house. That is their home. And this house provides shelter from the elements. They have a roof, a floor, and four walls. If you raise the house, they're going to be on the street or in a tent.
 So that basically boils down to it. And she'll be stuck with a lien against the property. So right now they're safe inside the house. They're protected from the elements. We've left hedges around the perimeters to try and shield the property from public view. And while you and I may choose not to live in a house that doesn't have utilities,
 That's not our call. They choose to live there because that is their home and just because utilities have not been disconnected is no reason to really condemn a property. She owns the property. She's not bothering anyone. She's not asking for anything. The house is hidden from view, unlike others in Fayetteville that have junk all around them that are in public site. So she's trying to be a good citizen in that regard.
 So she just wants to be left alone, let us continue this process, try and get her home sold so she has the money to provide for her and her niece for the rest of time. So we don't really think that it's right to arbitrarily determine that you're going to destroy her property and put her on the street. That is her home, she does own it, and she's being denied her civil liberties of the safety of that property and living there.
 So we are asking that you either table the condemnation and the raise and removal, or give us a minimum of six months to go and work through this process. It is not an overnight event.
 We aren't miracle workers, we can't do anything overnight, but we are trying really hard. She is working diligently every day that she can getting out there and working to pick up debris and get it removed. She's 80 years old, almost 81 years old, so she's not able to get out there and work eight to ten hours a day, but she's doing all that she physically can to get it removed.
 So, we appreciate your consideration of this, and we are hoping that we get a buyer that might look at that as its highest and best use of an RSF6 and have some cute row homes with a carport and a 10-foot driveway and help with the urban density and inclusion that we're all looking for. And that's the buyer that we're looking for.
 So, or anybody wants to put a commercial building on there, but we are doing our best to try and get it sold and keep her safe and sound and keep her in her property and off of living in the streets until we can get it sold. So that's what we ask for your consideration.
 Ms. Haywood, have you had any offers on the property? Pardon? Have you had any offers on the property? We had had one that was very low, and we made a very reasonable counter, and he chose not to come back to it. He said he did not know what it would cost for the raise and removal, which I dispute that fact. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Do we have any other members of the public that would like to address this item? Vice Mayor Bunch, just a point of clarification. These documents, the pictures that Ms. Haywood just provided, they have also been sent to you by email. Okay. Through the agenda comment email address. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 seeing no further public comment I'm going to close the floor to public comment then and bring it back to the council members we have a request to and I'm speaking as a council member now we've got a request to give an extension of 60 days so I have a question maybe yes mom
 Kit, is there any way that we could offer an extension with some milestones, a plan and some milestones that have to be reached in order to keep the, to delay the condemnation? Or does it have, do we give a date and that's it and then we have to review it again? Yeah.
 I really think you have to kind of choose the amount of time you want. And you might say that it will be tabled again and extended again if they meet this milestone. But you all are the ones that control the tabling. And so you really can't delegate your power to a staff person to make the decision that they have done enough, that they deserve to keep having it extended. But you could do a...
 let them know as part of the tabling that you expect such and such to have occurred by the time the next council meeting comes up. And if it has, then you would be in favor of, you know, extending it once they're showing progress, which they have shown some progress already. Right. I do feel like that there is progress and there's a commitment to get help for the tenant and owner of the property. And so I don't want to...
 inhibit any possibility to move forward. Would either one of the speakers have an idea of a specific measurable that we could look forward to that could be done in 30 days? Would you please come back up Martha?
 i feel as though we you know weather permitting we can continue with the cleaning of the property and part of it was before we could really address anything in the house we felt like we needed to get the property cleared up so people could get in there you can get equipment in and do all that um i think at bare minimum we would need 60 days because we're going to have to
 get some things done. We're going to have to get some things done inside the house in order to get workmen in and get estimates and things of that nature. We can close the sides up right now, but if we close the sides up, then we're going to have to tear it back off in order to do the electrical work. So that was kind of why we thought you were robbing Peter to pay Paul to do that at this point. Can I ask a question? Yes, Teresa. Okay.
 So have you tarped the sides? Have you actually physically, you know, try to put a temporary barrier up there to tarp the side of the house so no rain will get in or anything like that? We can do that. It's quite easy to do that and just put some OSB or something of that nature up there.
 Or just a blue tarp, you know, just something. So there's a barrier there and, you know, so that, right, you wouldn't have to rip something more permanent out if you put the electrical in. Potentially we could do that. I know people do that all the time with the roof when they need to have roof repair. And there was a house at the top of Township that had a blue tarp on it for probably a year or two as they were waiting for a new roof. So we could certainly do that.
 So just follow up the roof and the floor are in are in good shape. It's just the openings and to the to the outside exterior in the walls. Is that is that correct? To the best of my knowledge, yes.
 are there other areas that are also open to the elements or is it just okay no and i actually have a picture of that i don't have it in this packet but i know last time they talked about how there was no ingress and egress there is a front and a back door the back door had items
 front of it on the steps but if you'll look at the very last picture of the during I called it during not after if you'll look at the during you will show that that back door is totally clear and open so she's really made great strides and a lot of that debris and I have some stuff
 that is there that she has like a beautiful concrete table and some benches and I have somebody that's agreed to take that. And we're diligently working and we're wanting to work and get the house where it is habitable until we can get her a place, get it sold and move her on to her next stage. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. So I have some suggestions to the council about conditions. If you'll allow me. Yes, Theresa.
 So my recommendations would be that we extend it for 60 days, but we require the following. We require that Ms. Austin or her representative be in contact with city services.
 so that she can look at rental assistance or some options, and that someone assist her, maybe the gentleman whose name I didn't catch, if he's her power of attorney or becomes her power of attorney, so that he is in coordination and helping with that.
 The second condition would be completing the cleaning of the inside of the house so that all the debris is removed within 60 days. The third condition would be that the walls are immediately closed up and those could be through a tarp or some other kind of temporary measure to close that in so that that building, that house is actually somewhat habitable and at least not exposed to the elements.
 And I believe that this will, if these conditions are met, that that will improve the situation overall and will give them a little bit more time. Or I would argue that we should give them a little bit more time because they are making progress and has been a very, very wet April. And I want to acknowledge that progress has been made and hope that...
 Either she finds a buyer or has a new living situation. But at least in the meantime, she would be able to stay in her residence. And we could encourage it to be as safe as possible, given its condition. Thank you for considering that. So, Kit, is that, you know, what has been suggested, is that something that sounds...
 That sounds pretty good. I think that when it's tabled, you can say that when it comes back to the city council, this is what you expect to have been accomplished at that point in time. I don't think you can put a condition on the tabling right now to say if you don't do this, then the tabling is over, because then staff would have to go out and look and then...
 They can't untable something. Only the city council can do that. But those can be items that the city council believes should be accomplished within the next tabling. And when we say 60 days, we need to say probably the first city council meeting in two months because it's not going to be exactly 60 days. Okay.
 unless you all want to have special city council meetings. But apart from that, I think those conditions make a lot of sense. If that's what you all want to do, and then when you would come back to look at it again, obviously I think staff would be out there more beforehand and see if that had been accomplished. So what would be our first council meeting? What would be the date of our first council meeting roughly 60 days from now?
 It would be the first meeting in July, I think. Is that correct? Or first meeting in May, so first meeting in July? It would be July 5th. July 5th, okay. Okay. Ms. Haywood has another picture she would like to... Can I have a picture of the side of the house that's open? Yes, you can bring it forward. You'll give it to the city clerk, but we'll look at it. We'll go ahead and look at it. There's the side of the house that's open. So it's not like a whole side of something.
 Okay. Okay, we'll take a look at it. Thank you. That helps. Thank you. Okay. Well from my point of view, I think tabling for 60 days certainly is reasonable and we'll go ahead and vote on that and discuss it with the realization that in 60 days if progress hasn't been made appropriately that it won't be further tabled. So,
 I would like to know that, you know, that the attorney representing Ms. Austin is, you know, the person that's here that's representing her, that you have the power of attorney to, you know, you can act on her behalf. And I'd like to know that you've been in, you know, I believe Teresa mentioned that
 that you've been in contact with city services and possibly county services as well to, you know, because if the place sells, she's going to need a place to go to, or she might need a place to go to before it sells. And, you know, just to know that she's working on possibly moving out of the house and getting a better place for herself. I think that's, I would really want to know that. So are we okay?
 Is everyone okay with tabling it till the July 5th meeting? Sarah, I may have another suggestion. If we could have an update in 30 days, would that be possible? So maybe we table it for 60, but by 30 days, we have an update to ensure that that
 I really would like the House, you know, have it tarped so that she is safer in there than she away from the elements. So that's what I'm mostly concerned about. And I suppose that if her attorney is here and says that and Ms. Haywood says that that will be done, that may be good enough. But it would be nice to know that at least things are progressing along.
 Okay, thank you. Now, Kidd, is that something could we ask for, like a written update or something like that? Well, certainly staff can go around and take a look to see what they can see, at least from the public right away. But if you table it for two months to July 5th, it's really, it would be very awkward to try to untable it before then. Okay. Okay.
 I'm not saying it's impossible to do that, but we have not done that in the past, but there's always something new under the sun. I think that we could ask for a courtesy request to have that in 30 days, and I bet that it would occur.
 I mean, they're working industriously, so in 30 days, I think that we could have, they would give us the courtesy to give us an update. Shaking their head yes. So that's, I think that we could expect that because I do want to go ahead and do the table until July 5th. I think that's the most reasonable first step.
 And I commend the volunteers and Mr. Lindsay, additionally, for stepping in with compassion to help this property get sellable and for housing for the owner. That's commendable. Thank you. So may I make the motion? Are we ready? Excuse me. Excuse me, sir. Would...
 I guess you can would someone like to extend an invitation to I've forgotten what your name is I'm sorry I would extend an invitation I guess for a couple of seconds to hear so we'll give you just a couple of minutes to come up and if you come up to the microphone the mic please record you want something in writing or do you want someone to appear and give you an update
 I think writing and then staff can probably drive by and just, you know, maybe take a look at it. I think that would be fine. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 So do we need a motion to table this kit? Yes, you do need a motion to table. I move that we table this until July 5th. Second. Okay, so we have a motion to table this item until July 5th with a written update. We have a motion and a second. Kara, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Vice Mayor Bunch, just as a clarification, Council Member Turk put in several different conditions that she wanted in order to have this. Is that going to be included in the motion as well? It's not in the motion that I presented. Thank you, Council Member Kenyon. Okay. I mean, as a courtesy, I hope that happens, but it's not part of the motion I presented. May I move to amend your motion?
 Well, the problem is all of this is going to be what's occurring before the tabling finally ends. And so I think in 60 days or by July 5th, a lot of these things are going to be looked at. That's when it's going to be reviewed at that point in time, including anything that you said on this.
 That's really, it's not like the tabling is conditioned on that. It's basically it's tabled, but you're expecting to see the results on July 5th that this has been accomplished, right? I'm just wondering if we need to make it clear in writing or in some form about what we expect in 60 days. That's my only clarification. So how would you suggest that we do that, Kit? Sure.
 Well, basically, you're speaking right now to the applicant and the applicant's representatives, so they hear you, and you want to be clear that they know what the city council is suggesting it wants to see, and so that's enough, except that I haven't heard a complete consensus on your part of the proposal as I have in the other part, so...
 you know, I think there's a limit to what you can do with a motion to table. You basically just postpone action. That's what a motion to table does. And you can say the city council would like to see these results at the end of this tabling. But that doesn't end the motion to table just because they don't do it. It just means that when they come back, they're much less likely to get a table again. Yes. I feel very optimistic that, you know,
 that if the applicant, you know, or the people working with the applicant have said that they're going to do what they're going to do, that if it comes back in 60 days or we ask for a courtesy update, that they are going to actually do that. They've heard us. We've asked for it. They're nodding their heads yes. So I think they're going to do that. And I feel comfortable just, you know, with the motion that Mark has made.
 So are we okay on that now? Did we get a second? I think we got a second Yes, so we had a motion by mark a second by Sloan Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, and yes her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones Jones
 Okay. Well, it did pass. Okay. Thank you. So thank you guys for coming out and I look forward to hearing back from you in about 30 days.
 Okay, our next item B2 is a resolution to grant the appeal of councilmember Sonia Harvey, DeAndre Jones and Mark Kenyon and approve an amendment to conditional use permit CUP 19-6721 for Prairie Street Live located at 509 West Prairie Street.
 And Kit, do you want to give us an explanation of why this item is, why we're doing this? Well, I think everybody in this room and the people zooming in, too, thought we had resolved this issue at the last meeting.
 I remember it looked like you had come to some sort of consensus and I asked, I said, well, we've got to amend the resolution because it said under the following conditions that it was blank. So I wondered if you wanted to put a condition in and there was eventually an agreement for a condition, not unanimous, but it passed, I think, five to three.
 We all assumed wrongly that that was it because we really had to have a second vote on the resolution as amended. And fortunately, the next day, our city clerk, Kara Paxton, looked over the tape and looked over her minutes and said, uh-oh, we did not get that second vote done. And so...
 We need to do that now. So it remained on the agenda as old business because it wasn't totally finished. And even though we didn't table it, here we are. And so now to make sure that we do everything exactly correctly, we need to have a motion to pass the amended resolution that was discussed in depth at our last meeting. I move we pass the amended resolution. Second. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to pass the amended resolution. Kara, would you please call the roll? Do we need public comment? Oh, do we need public comment? If we're going to make sure that we don't mess it up a second time. Sorry, let's please. I don't, so we've gotten the staff report. Is the applicant here by any chance? Do you have anything you'd like to add to this?
 Okay. Okay. Do we have any public comment either on Zoom or in the chamber? No one on Zoom right now. Okay. I am going to, Kara, would you please call the roll then? Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Jones. What is the count? Jones.
 5-2. 5-2. Okay. Well, we needed five affirmative votes and Kara says we have five affirmative votes and we're just past. Okay, so… Can I explain my vote?
 Yes, Slung. I voted against this last time. The reason I'm voting for this time is kind of procedural. I think it's important that the government works in a consistent manner. And I don't think that it looks like if I had not changed my vote, the results actually would have changed. So I went yes, so that it would stay the same from two weeks ago. I think people need to be able to expect us to be somewhat consistent.
 I had a concern with that myself, but I'm glad we passed. So everything's done correctly on this one this time. Okay. All right. Thank you, guys. On to our next item. This is item three, an ordinance to rezone land.
 That property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-012 located at 1893 and 1909 North Stephen Carr Boulevard in Ward 2 for approximately 3.5 acres from RA Residential Agriculture to CS Community Services. And this agenda item was left on the first reading at the April 19th meeting.
 So you can all either suspend the rules and go to the second reading, or I can just read the rest of the ordinance, which is pretty short.
 why don't you go ahead and read the rest of the ordinance okay be it ordained by the city council of city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from ra residential agricultural to cs community services and section two that the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Do we still need a motion to go to the second reading or we just we're on that that's that was a second reading Okay, good deal. Okay, so Jonathan, I believe this is your staff item, correct? It is. Thank you vice mayor. Um
 I don't have any new information regarding the request. However, there were a few items brought up at the last council meeting that I would like to touch on. I think the council may benefit from some more information. A memo did go out from the engineering division last Friday regarding some of the public comments received. But, again, I want to touch on that briefly as well just for the benefit of anybody who's listening and heard those comments.
 There were three main issues brought up through some public comment. There were regarding our development standards and drainage terms, the drainage patterns on this particular property, and the issues that the resident and others may perceive about previously approved projects and the negative impacts those may be having on this area.
 First and foremost, with regards to development standards, I will not go into all the details of the drainage criteria manual because Chris Brown, the city engineer, has done that many times for you all. All that is to say there are four major standards. One is about water quality, making sure the pre- and post-development water quality stays comparable. The next three are about controlling the amount of water leaving a site in a manner that's
 manageable, doesn't destroy our stream banks, and also doesn't create flooding issues. Another significant development center that's changed recently, and as it relates to flooding, is that the city staff has the ability to require floodplain development permits. This is basically a flood zone analysis showing that when you are developing in a floodplain, you're not having adverse impacts on nature.
 neighboring or downstream properties, which was not necessarily a requirement before. And lastly, as Council Member Harvey mentioned at the meeting, there are significant future stormwater programs being considered by the city. And a lot of these would have the potential to address some of our stormwater issues that are on private property, whether it's acquiring easements so that the city can take a role in maintaining some of those areas that would not otherwise be our responsibility or otherwise.
 As far as drainage patterns go, the property being considered, which again is the subject of this request, not necessarily the off-site flooding issues. This property contributes to two downstream tributaries of Hamestring Creek, which were the subject of the public comments. You can see the subject property here in the red outline, just west of Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard, west of the new police station headquarters.
 And you can see the Haim Street, Haim Street corridor, which flows from southeast to northwest. The properties basically split on its topography, a little bit flowing to the north, but largely flowing towards the south. These two directions both contribute to Haim Street further downstream from where the resident was speaking about her property concerns. So it's not to say that our water systems are not related to each other, but it is worth noting that important distinction.
 Lastly, the last major item the applicant brought up was with regards to previously approved projects and the assertion that they have negative effects on residents. One specifically mentioned was Macmillan Estates, which may be more familiar to the Council as the location of Cross Church and the Fitness One development. That project was approved as a commercial subdivision in 2001, so that's 21 years ago, almost to the month.
 It is worth noting that there have been significant changes to our drainage criteria standards in those intervening years. I touched on some of those before. Our current iteration of our drainage criteria manual was adopted about eight years ago and has been implemented for almost a full decade now.
 And similarly, without going into it again in 2021, the council also raised the bar further by requiring a floodplain development permit anywhere that a property is developing into the floodplain to show no adverse impacts offsite. And lastly, perhaps most importantly to what the resident brought up is there was previously an exemption for many developments that were approved under a grading plan at some point in the past where any developments that came through subsequent to it would be
 honored under that grading plan so if you put in a detention pond to our 2000 standards you could develop to the 2000 standards where there is an identified flooding problem staff can now require that a property bring their drainage standards up to our current code so staff has a lot more latitude to address a lot of these drainage problems that we were not aware of or are not prepared for in the early 2000s 90s 80s and and before
 So with that, and as a reminder, staff is recommending in favor of rezoning request, which is from RA, Residential Agricultural, to CS, Community Services. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to Council unanimously by a vote of 8-0. They felt that this was an appropriate request, particularly given its location immediately adjacent to the Interstate 49. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. Thank you.
 And I believe, I'm sorry, I believe Seth Mims is here as the applicant. Okay. Do we have any questions for staff on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'm going to, is the applicant here that would like to address this? Good evening. Good evening. Please state your name for the record. Seth Mims, Specialized Real Estate Group here in Fayetteville. I'm very sensitive to the amount of time that you guys spend serving our city, so I'm not going to go through the presentation again. It's tempting.
 as I find it. I am just gonna read a couple of letters from adjacent neighbors. The first one being from the neighbors immediately to the south. It's the Hill City Church and their letter states, to members of the Fayetteville City Council, we're hopeful that you will approve the rezoning request concerning the parcels just west of the new police headquarters.
 We own the property directly to the south of the subject property as Hill City Church. The property in question has fallen into disrepair and increasingly collecting junk items. We would like to see new development occur in this location. Sincerely, Matt Slaughter, Lead Pastor. I'd like to read a letter from the neighbors directly to the north of the subject property
 There Fayetteville City Council my wife and I own the property at 1965 North Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard in Fayetteville We're excited about the development in our part of the city and would be in favor of any rezoning to nearby slash adjacent properties needed to continue its progress and
 You may contact us at, they go on to give their phone number, if we may be of any help in the conversations about city development. Thank you all for the work that you do to serve our community and make Fayetteville an even better place to live, work, and play. I had the privilege of getting to visit with Fayetteville Police Chief Mike Reynolds, and he did confirm that his department has no opposition to this rezoning request. I think he may be present.
 He is. Maybe we get a thumbs up. Maybe you guys want to hear from him. And although I could go through this again, the many convincing reasons why this reasonably makes sense, which is why we're asking for it, but out of respect for your time, I'm just going to sit down and be available for questions. Okay. Thank you all. Thank you, Seth. We'll call you back if we have any questions. So I guess public comment now. And do we...
 Anyone that would like to speak on this item, we entertain Zoom comments first. You get one turn to speak, five minutes in duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or on council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. We start with the Zoom. Do we have anybody with their hand raised on Zoom? No, ma'am. Okay. So now we'll go on to is there anyone in the council chambers that would like to address this item? Please state your name and address. Okay.
 hello my name is alessandra brown 3658 mountain view drive ward 4. um a couple hours ago i was sent a city staff memo the one that mr kurth covered in his opening it appears that the proposed project would have water that flows primarily to the middle fork is my question rather than the creek
 I guess I didn't hear everything that you just said about that because this is different than what was said in the last meeting about where the water would leave that proposed project. I also located the FTN study that was completed after the 2018 flood that was just released six months ago on this area.
 Valley Drive specifically it reads as while the Beaver Dam that currently exists downstream of Interstate 49 does not detain water does detain water through the structure its removal does not impact the peak water surface elevations upstream of the I-49 crossing significantly
 It would however reduce the standing water through the I-49 structure. That stagnating water is primarily why I was here two weeks ago opposing the rezoning. It's very counterintuitive to see that stagnating water and then be told that they're due to the fever dams and then be told that the removal of the dams would not make a difference or result in better retention times.
 how does the water sitting there that's supposed to move away not contribute to the flooding or make a significant difference once removed i was also told that ultimately the removal of the beaver dams means the removal of the beavers which is probably a daunting task and requires more time to discuss um i certainly think that the community
 that I'm speaking about deserves the consideration. Where two residents would also appreciate a channel widening mentioned as a solution in the FTN study. Not sure how the 2019 bonds were prioritized. We were quietly rebuilding our homes. We didn't fill out the survey. We missed the survey.
 It should not be easy to develop in and around a floodplain large-scale developments. It's been far too easy to do so in the past, as mentioned with the McMillan Estates development. I met Mr. Sims outside. He seems like an upstanding person.
 He spoke to his business practice and the nature and the culture that watches out for areas that he builds next to. He seems authentic in his disposition. I don't particularly want to be an obstructionist to his project. His project actually means that I can bike safely to the people that I want to see.
 upstream on Hamstring Creek. I'm just here to assure that this city has exhausted all efforts to insulate that community that has been previously disregarded before to have their homes be safe. And if you can rezone that property and
 without much more consideration about the Beaver dams than I think I've exhausted all of my efforts here with you all. So I thank you for listening and considering what I've asked thus far. Thank you. Jonathan, she had a few questions. Would you like to try to address those now?
 i believe the first one's the main one i'm competent to speak to i'm not as familiar with the the beaver dam concerns but i do know chris brown and alan pew are both online and may be available as far as where the water flows i think the information we shared at the previous meeting is just based on existing topography on the site as you all know this is a zoning decision we have not seen a development we've not seen a site plan we've not seen a drainage study those are issues that we cannot say with
 Complete confidence which way it will slow other than it will guarantee to flow north or south to one of those tributaries to hamstring which Ultimately feed into hamstring just west of interstate 49 But again other than that, I think the Beaver Dam issue Would best be spoken to by either Chris Brown or Alan Pugh if they're on Okay and I'll start I'll say that I
 Alan can talk more about the Beaver dams. He's more familiar with that detailed study, but there's no question that the issues and problems that Ms. Brown speaks of are issues. We recognize those. We've done the flood study.
 Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of good solutions there because of the highway, just because of environmental issues with trying to widen or do anything with the stream channel. So, there are some solutions there, but they're not easy. But I don't believe that the
 proposed rezoning that the issues on Hamstring Creek are really relevant to this proposed rezoning because they are those separate drainage basins. So Alan I'm not sure if you want to add something about the the beaver dams.
 Only that that was a portion of the flood study that was mentioned for FTN. We knew that the Beaver dams locally may be causing issues for some of the residents there, and at least in the larger form events that structure flooding has typically occurred.
 based on our study, it did not matter if the Beaver dams were there or not. Essentially, there was so much water coming through there. Floodplains are so large and there was such a small portion of that floodplain that it really did not move the needle as far as the base flood elevation goes. Also, I talked previously that I think all of those Beaver dams, there are a few up through that area were on private property.
 outside of drainage easements or outside any rights of way for the city. So I really struggled with the solution of other than working with a property owner and if they were willing to allow the city to deal with that and potentially grant temporary construction easements and other things that we would need. It really became a very difficult prospect for us to go in there and remove those dams.
 especially if there wasn't a large benefit in those larger storm events. We do understand that some of that standing water could be nuisance water, certainly, and could be a concern in some of those smaller events. But that was our position as far as the Beaver Dams go, and certainly happy to answer any questions that council may have.
 Okay, thank you, Alan and Chris. Do we have any other public comment? I forgot to ask about that. Anybody else like to address this item? Okay, seeing none, I'm going to bring it back to the council for discussion or action on this item.
 First, I'd like to thank Ms. Brown for coming. Every time she speaks, she's very well spoken and researched, and I appreciate that. On the hamstring issues, I know that they're kind of a separate issue from this rezoning, but I hear about hamstring a lot. I'm hoping that we can have some long-range plans.
 to work on that creek. It's got junk in it. There's some issues. And I know that there's some issues with private property and that makes it difficult, but I've been hearing about Hamstring Creek basically since I've been on council. So hopefully we can start getting that because like the pictures that were sent to us,
 There's a lot of hamstring creek that looks that nasty with mattresses in it and lawn furniture and recycling bins that get blown away in the rain. So hopefully we can start making improvements there. Thank you. I have similar comments.
 Yeah, I hear about Hamstring Creek quite a bit. And I would hope that the city staff would really investigate a little bit further about what options we have to contact those property owners, those homeowners, and see if they would allow the city to come in there and remove the beaver dams and some of the other obstructions that are occurring. I don't
 I don't know if we if the city needs a permit from a D Q in order to do that kind of work, but I would hope that that would be moved up to a higher priority than maybe it's been in the past because I do hear a lot about it as well and
 We really need to reduce the number of structures that we have. I think it's 23 right now that get inundated periodically and get that number down and get a better class rating for flood insurance as well. So any efforts in that area, I really would encourage staff to pursue and I would fully support that.
 especially if they brought back or if they needed to bring back additional funding in order to work on that project. Thanks. Mike, I believe you had something you'd like to add. Yes, thank you, Madam. Every interaction I've had with Ms. Brown has been remarkable. The intelligence, the articulate nature, and the credibility, really.
 And I think we have to balance that and appreciate her compassion for her father. I'm not sure that my children would do the same for me, to be perfectly honest with you. But we have to balance that with the property interest rights. And I don't see how we can hold...
 the property in question hostage because of flooding in one part of town on a different parcel. No parcel in Fayetteville would ever be developed if we said all flooding had to be remediated. And so I feel compassion for the property interest rights and
 And I'm just going to have to trust that because of the movement of the City of Fayetteville to increase our management of stormwater, that I'm going to continue to see us exercise that type of management. And I would be very open to this item continuing and moving forward to resolution tonight. Okay. Do we have any other comments on this item? Anybody, what course of action would you like to take on this?
 I have a quick comment. And I guess I just really want to echo Councilmember Whitaker and Councilmember Turk. You know, I think we need to really listen to what Ms. Brown and I, I know we are, what Ms. Brown is saying, but in regard to the Beaverdams. And I don't know, you know, when we talk about, you know,
 people's property and a beaver dam, I think we need to prioritize people and their property. And so I'm hopeful that we have some type of course of action that we can pursue in order to clear the waterways, to allow the water to flow freely, whether it's junk removal or beaver dam removal.
 As far as I know, I don't know, can we have even beavers as pets in the city? I don't even know, but that seems to be contradictory to us caring for the property itself.
 in the safety of our residents. If we're talking about that beavers are causing flooding issues. Now I agree with council member Whitaker. This to me is independent issue of the rezone, but it does give us an opportunity to address the issue.
 And I agree with that he that he what he said about this brown and she's so articulate and and I appreciate her her persistent to come persistence from coming out and talking to us. So I don't have anything else on this. I will be supporting the reason and hoping we can find a solution for for that neighborhood sooner, sooner than later. Thank you.
 So We're on the second reading on this item So I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second Okay, so we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading a care. Would you please call the roll Kenyon? Yes, we did her. Yes Scroggins yes Thanks. Yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg yes RV
 Yes. Jones. Yes. In order to rezone that property described, a rezoning petition RZN 22-012 located at 1893 and 1909 North Stephen Carr Boulevard in Ward 2 for approximately 3.5 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Pardon me? Sorry. Final comments. Final comments. I just totally blanked on that. Sorry. Do we have any final comments on this item?
 Seeing none, Kara, would you call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. So I pass. We're on to the next. Okay. All right. Thank you very much.
 So, we're on to our new business now, and our first item is pretty lengthy, and I'm
 I guess I read it off here. It's an ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of the cities, of the cities not to exceed 74 million 340,000 sales and use tax capital improvement bonds series 2022 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain street, trail, drainage, park, city facilities, arts corridor, and firefighting facilities and improvements are
 authorizing the execution and delivery of the first supplemental trust indenture pursuant to which the series twenty twenty two bonds will be issued and secured authorizing the execution and delivery of an official statement
 pursuant to which Series 2022 bonds will be offered, authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the Series 2022 bonds, authorizing the execution and delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement and prescribing other matters related thereto.
 This ordinance is on the first reading and... I need to go ahead and read the whole ordinance. Yeah, sorry about that. So you think the title was long? Just wait. Yeah. Okay, sorry. Sorry, I thought that was enough reading, but evidently not. Whereas the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 has previously determined that there is a need for a source of revenue to finance all or a portion of the cost of critical capital improvement projects, including number one, streets and related improvements, the streets project. Two, trail system and related improvements, the trails project. Three, drainage and related improvements, the drainage project. Four, park system and related improvements, the parks project. Five, city facilities and related improvements, the city facilities project.
 Sixth, Arch Corridor and Related Improvements, the Arch Corridor Project. And seven, Firefighting Facilities and Related Improvements, the Firefighting Facilities Project. And whereas the city is authorized and empowered under the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the state of Arkansas, including particularly Amendment 62 to the Constitution of the state of Arkansas,
 In Title 14, Chapter 164, Subchapter 3 of the Arkansas Code of 1987, annotated, which is the Local Government Bond Act, to issue and sell its capital improvement bonds to finance and refinance the costs of various capital improvements, such as those comprising the Streets Project, the Trails Project, the Drainage Project, the Parks Project, the City Facilities Project, the Arts Corridor Project, and the Firefighting Facilities Project, collectively the projects. Okay.
 which capital improvement bonds may be secured by and payable from receipts of the special citywide sales and use tax authorized by the Local Government Bond Act. And whereas, pursuant to Amendment 62 of the Local Government Bond Act and the provisions of Ordinance No. 6216 of the City, adopted and approved on December 18, 2018, the election ordinance, there was submitted to the qualified electors of the City various questions regarding the issuance of an aggregate
 of not to exceed two hundred and three million eight hundred sixty five thousand dollars in principal amount of capital improvement bonds for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of various capital improvements, including the projects. Said bonds should be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax levied at the rate of one percent pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax.
 And whereas at a special election held April 9th of 2019, a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on each of the questions approved the issue of capital improvement bonds and their principal amounts, and for each of the specific purposes set forth on the ballot and the corresponding levy of the sales and use tax and pledge of the receipts thereof through the payments of the bonds."
 Whereas pursuant to Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act, as approved by the qualified electors of the city, and as authorized by Ordinance No. 6194 of the city, adopted and approved on June 4, 2019, the city has previously issued one, its $124,425,000 bond,
 sales and use tax capital improvement and refunding bond series 2019a and it's 3 million 170 000 sales and use tackle tax capital improvement bond taxable series 2009 b and whereas the series 2009 b bonds have been paid in full
 And whereas, as authorized under the provisions of Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act, and as approved by the qualified electors of the city, the city has now determined to issue and sell its Sales Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2022 in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $74,340,000, the Series 2022 bonds. Thank you.
 in order to provide funding for all or a portion of the costs of the projects. And whereas as authorized by the provisions of the election ordinance, the City has previously made arrangements for the sale of the Series 2022 bonds to Stevens Incorporated, Fayetteville, Arkansas, the underwriter, pursuant to the terms of the bond purchase agreement between the City and the underwriter, the bond purchase agreement, in substance with the form presented to and before this meeting.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, under the authority of the Constitution and laws of the State of Arkansas, including particularly Amendment 62 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and the Local Government Bond Act, there is hereby authorized the issuance of bonds of the City to be designated as Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement and Refunding Bonds Series 2022.
 The Series 2022 bonds shall be issued in the original aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $74,340,000 and shall mature not later than November 1st of 2035 in the principal amounts and bearing interest at the rates to be specified in the bond purchase agreement. The average yield on the Series 2022 bonds as a whole shall not exceed 4.5% per annum.
 Of the $74,340,000 maximum aggregate principal amount of the Series 2022 bonds hereby authorized, 1. Not to exceed $29,490,000 shall be deemed to apply the streets project. 2. Not to exceed $4,570,000 shall be applied to the trails project.
 3. Not to exceed $8,210,000 shall be deemed to apply to the Drainage Project. 4. Not to exceed $10,950,000 shall be deemed to apply to the Parks Project. 5. Not to exceed $2,690,000 shall be deemed to apply to the City Facilities Project. 6. Not to exceed $12,650,000 shall be deemed to apply to the Arts Quarter Project.
 and seven not to exceed five million eight hundred and fifteen thousand shall be deemed to apply to the firefighting facilities project and the proceeds of the series 2022 bonds shall be allocated accordingly the proceed proceeds of the series 2022 bonds will be utilized to finance all or a portion of the cost of the projects described above
 and to pay printing, underwriting, legal, and other expenses incidental to the issuance of the 2022 bonds.
 The series 2022 bonds shall be issued in the forms and denominations, shall be dated, shall be numbered, shall mature, shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity, and shall contain such other terms, covenants, and conditions, all as set forth in the first supplemental trust indenture submitted to this meeting.
 The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Series 2022 bonds in substantially a form thereof contained in the first supplemental trust indenture submitted to this meeting. And the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Series 2022 bonds and affix the seal of the City thereto.
 And the mayor and city clerk are hereby authorized and directed to cause the series 2022 bonds to be accepted and authenticated by the trustee.
 the mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee the underwriter and kutok rock llp little rock arkansas the bond council in order to complete the series 2022 bonds it's substantially the form contained in the first supplemental trust indenture submitted to this meeting with such changes i shall be approved by such persons executing the series 2022 bonds their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval section two
 In order to pay the principal of and the interest on the Series 2022 bonds as they mature or are called for redemption prior to maturity, there is hereby pledged all of the receipts of an existing 1% sales and use tax levied by the election ordinance. Such pledges securing the Series 2022 bonds shall be made on a parity basis with the existing pledge of such receipts in favor of the Series 2019A bonds."
 The levy and collection of the sales and use tax shall continue until such times as the Series 2019-A bonds and the Series 2022 bonds are no longer outstanding or sufficient funds are on deposit with the trustee under the trust indenture to redeem the Series 2019-A bonds and the Series 2022 bonds in full.
 The City covenants and agrees that all receipts from the sales and use tax will be accounted for separately as special funds on the books of the City, and the receipts of said sales and use tax will be deposited and will be used solely as provided in the trust indenture. Section 3. To prescribe the terms and conditions upon the series of 2022 bonds are to be executed, authenticated, issued, accepted, held, and secured.
 The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute and acknowledge a first supplemental trust indenture by between the city and Simmons Bank, Pine Bluff, Arkansas, as trustee. The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute and acknowledge a first supplemental trust indenture and to affix the seal of the city thereto.
 and the Mayor and the City Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to cause the first Supplemental Trust Indenture to be accepted, executed, and acknowledged by the Trustee. The first Supplemental Trust Indenture supplements and amends a Trust Indenture dated as of August 1, 2019, buying between the City and the Trustee the original indenture, and collectively with the first Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Trust Indenture.
 The first supplemental trust indenture is hereby approved as substantially the form submitted to this meeting, including without limitation the provisions thereof pertaining to a pledge of the sales and use tax receipts in the terms of the Series 2022 bond. The Mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee, the underwriter, and bond counsel in order to complete the first supplemental trust indenture and substantially the form submitted to this meeting and with such changes as may be approved.
 By such persons executing the supplemental trust indenture. Okay, I drink a water. Okay. And their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval. Advice is given that a copy of the first supplemental trust indenture in substantially a form authorized to be executed is on file with the city clerk and is available for inspection by any interested person.
 Section 4, there is hereby authorized and approved a preliminary official statement of the City, including the cover page and dependencies attached thereto, relating to the Series 2022 bonds. A distribution of the preliminary official statement is hereby approved. The preliminary official statement, as amended to conform with the terms of the bond purchase agreement, including Exhibit A thereto, and with such other changes and amendments that are mutually agreed to by the City and underwriter, is hereby referred to as the official statement.
 and the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute the Official Statement for and on behalf of the City. The Official Statement is hereby approved and substantially deformed with the preliminary Official Statement submitted to this meeting, and the Mayor is hereby authorized to confirm with the Trustee, the Underwriter, and Bond Council in order to complete the Official Statement and substantially deformed with the preliminary Official Statement.
 submitted to this meeting with such changes as shall be approved by such persons the mayor's execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval. Advice is given that a copy of the preliminary official statements on file with the city clerk is available for inspection by any interested person. Section 5. In order to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which the series 2022 bonds are to be sold to the underwriter,
 The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a bond purchase agreement on behalf of the City to be dated as of the date of this execution. Buy-in between the City and the Underwriter and the bond purchase agreement is hereby approved in substantially a form submitted to this meeting.
 and the mayors hereby authorized to confer with the underwriter and bond counsel in order to complete the bond purchase agreement in substantially the form submitted to this meeting with such changes as shall be approved by such persons executing a bond purchase agreement their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.
 and advice is given that a copy of the bond purchase agreement is substantially the form authorized to be executed is on file with the city clerk and is available for respect for inspection by any interested person section six in order to provide for continuing disclosure of certain financial and operating information with respect to the sales and use tax
 and the city is in compliance with provisions of rule 15c2-12 of the u.s securities exchange commission the mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a continuing disclosure agreement to be dated as of the date of its execution
 by and between the city and the trustee. The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to cause the continuing disclosure agreement to be executed by the trustee. The continuing disclosure agreement is hereby approved and is financially informed and submitted to this meeting. And the mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee, the underwriter, and bond counsel...
 In order to complete the continuing disclosure agreement, in substantially the form submitted to this meeting, with such changes as shall be approved by such persons executing the continuing disclosure agreement, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval. Advice is given that a copy of the continuing disclosure agreement, in substantially the form authorized to be executed, is on file with the city clerk, and is available for inspection by any interested person. Section 7. The Mayor and City Clerk.
 for and on behalf of the City, are hereby authorized and directed to do all things necessary to affect the issuance, sale, execution, and delivery of the Series 2022 bonds, and to affect the execution and delivery of the first Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the Official Statement, the Continuing Disclosure Agreement, and a Tax Compliance Agreement relating to the tax exemption of interest on the Series 2022 bonds.
 and to perform all of the obligations of the City under and pursuant thereto. The Mayor and City Clerk are further authorized and directed for and on behalf of the City to execute all papers, documents, certificates, and other instruments that may be required for the carrying out of such authority or to evidence the exercise thereof. Section A.
 As previously provided by the election ordinance, Kutoc Rock LLP Little Rock, Arkansas is hereby confirmed as bond council on behalf of the city in connection with the issuance and sale of the series 2022 bonds. Section 9.
 The provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable, and if any section, phrase, or provision shall, for any reason, be declared to be illegal or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases, or provisions of this ordinance. And Section 10, all ordinances, resolutions, and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
 That's it. Are you sure? Okay. All right. Thank you, Kit. That was a long reading. Paul, would you give us a report on this, please? Sure. I'm sure that clarifies everything. It makes it real clear. I'll just make a few summary comments. In 2018, as you'll remember, we went to the voter, asked for 10 ballot questions, and
 Three of those ballot questions were eliminated when we, they were all approved. Three of them were eliminated when we made the first bond issue and that was back in 2019. We refinanced the old bonds from 2006. We fully extended the bond issue for the police station.
 and we fully executed the economic development bond. So the seven questions left are here and this is the second phase of the issuance. We issued $127,500,000 back in 2019. We're requesting $74,340,000
 extended at this point in time for those seven questions. We'll still leave us fifteen million dollars left to be executed in the future. Roughly ten million dollars of that would be for streets and five million dollars of that for parks would still be remaining but we're requesting seventy four million three hundred forty thousand dollars at this point in time.
 This authorizes the completion of all the documents necessary to proceed with sale of the bonds. Alderman Whitaker brought up a point to me that I think I do need to discuss with everybody. He said I should touch a little bit on the security of these bonds, so I wish to do that. Remember, these are revenue bonds. They're special one penny sales tax approved by the voters.
 to pay these bonds, to pay the debt service on these bonds. Now these bonds will be out there till 2032. That's how we're structuring it right now. That's roughly 11 years. The debt service payments, if we calculate them right now,
 roughly 60% of what that one penny generated in 2022. So we have plenty of security. I don't think our sales tax is going to decline 40%. If so, we'll have to refinance bonds, but that's not going to happen. So worst case scenario, we'll pay this off in 11 years. I normally don't advise going out past 10 years. 10 years
 I feel is enough because by that time we're going to have a whole new array of infrastructure projects to address. Hopefully, if in fact sales tax continues at this rate, at the same level, we can pay these bonds off by roughly in six years, which would be good, which would free everything up at that point in time.
 And certainly we'll have a lot of issues to discuss at that point in time. So I want to thank Councilman Whitaker for asking that question because I do want to clarify the security of those bonds. They're very, very secure. I'm going to urge the council to pass this.
 ordinance tonight and I'll tell you why. There's a long lead time in actually selling these bonds. There's a number of things we have to do. We have to complete all the documents. We have to get Standard & Poor to rate these bonds. That will result in a lower interest payment if they're rated and we certainly expect them to be rated pretty high.
 At best scenario right now, we would sell the bonds late June, roughly June 22nd. That means for me to get it back to the council, for you to appropriate the funds raised by that to begin the project, would be early July.
 at this point in time and we'd like to get that started as best we can. Remember, when you authorize the sale of these bonds, you're not appropriating anything. We can't spend a thing until those projects come forward to the council. I'd like to introduce
 Dennis Hunt he's our underwriter he represents the Ida Run underwriting from Stevenson and sausage and Gordon Wilburn with Kutak Rock he is the bond council on his particular particular series so with that I'll be happy to answer any questions so council members do we have any questions for Paul
 Okay, seeing none, I guess we open the floor to public comment. Thank you, Paul. Is there any member of the public either on Zoom or in the chamber that would like to ask a question or address this item? Susan, do we have anyone on Zoom? No one is on Zoom. No one on Zoom. Is anyone in the chamber that would like to ask a question, address this?
 Okay, seeing none, I'm going to close the floor to public comment and bring it back to the council. Does Kit get to read this two more times if we go through it tonight?
 We'll flip a coin. No. No, I don't think so. I think that was a long ordinance. The ordinance mentions all these documents, thousands of pages. And we can have to, I want to really appreciate our own finance department that has poured over all them, as well as, of course, our bond counsel and underwriter, who have been very helpful in creating all those documents and have worked for us very well for a number of years.
 Thank you. Thank you for that. I know a lot of work has gone into this. So we've been asked to consider passing this tonight. So do we have anybody? I guess we're on the first reading, right? I move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. Second. Okay. Thank you, guys. We have a motion and a second to go on to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 ledeker yes scroggin yes yes yes yes harvey yes james yes an ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of cities not to exceed 74 million 340 000 sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2022.
 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs of certain street, trail, drainage, park, city facilities, arts corridor, and firefighting facilities and improvements.
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a first supplemental trust indenture pursuant to which the Series 2022 bonds will be issued and secured, authorizing the execution and delivery of an official statement pursuant to which the Series 2022 bonds will be offered.
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the Series 2022 bonds, authorizing the execution and delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement, and prescribing other matters relating thereto. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, will you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes.
 WHEDAWKIRK? YES. SCROGGIN? YES. BUNCH? YES. TURK? YES. HERZBURG? YES. HARVEY? YES. JONES? YES. An Ordinance Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of the City's Not to Exceed $74,340,000 Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bonds, Series 2022,
 For the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain street, trail, drainage, park, city facilities, art corridor, and firefighting facilities and improvements, authorizing the execution and delivery of a first supplemental trust indenture, pursuant to which the Series 2022 bonds will be issued and secured, authorizing the execution and delivery of an official statement, pursuant to which the Series 2022 bonds will be offered,
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the Series 2022 bonds, authorizing the execution and delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement, and prescribing other matters relating thereto. Thank you. Do we have any final comments from the Council on this item?
 I just want to recognize and thank you to Kutak Rock and to KIT for your work on this. And then finally, of course, our taxpayers who are investing in the community. We really appreciate you because these are some very important things that we need as we grow and look to the future. So thank you, taxpayers. I guess I'm all gone. Thank you, Sonia. Anything else?
 Okay, seeing no additional comments, Kara, will you call the final vote then? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you, everyone.
 Our next item of business is C2 is an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-017 located at 3352 North Highway 112 in Ward 2 for approximately 22.32 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Jonathan, I believe. No, I need to read that. Oh, I'm sorry. I keep forgetting that. I thought we'd read enough, but I guess not. So thank you. You're doing very well up there. Thank you. I keep forgetting that. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are selected by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Thank you very much, Kip. You just keep me in line there. Thanks a lot. Jonathan, would you give us the staff report on this item? Absolutely. Thank you. This property is located in northwest Fayetteville in Ward 2. It's about halfway between Truckers Drive to the south and Van Ash to the north. It includes about 35 acres on the east side of 112th.
 which borders its western boundary. The other notable boundary of the property is Clabber Creek to the south, and I think that bears repeating because I misnamed the creek agenda session. I think I called it Hamstring Creek twice. It is indeed Clabber Creek, so I apologize for that confusion.
 Development on the property is fairly limited. It's most well known for being the 112 drive-in and it's developed with those facilities including the movie screen, the parking lot, entrance awning, and building for refreshments and the projectors and such. The site is very level and has been largely clear of any canopy since at least the 1960s as shown by our historical aerial imagery.
 The most defining natural characteristic of the site is what you see on screen here today, which is that about 25 acres of the overall property is designated as floodplain. Before going further, it is worth noting that this request tonight doesn't include the overall property. The request is for approximately 22 acres of the northern extents of the property, of which, again, looking at the overall piece, is about 35 acres.
 It is worth noting that the entirety of the property today is zoned C2, thoroughfare commercial. As a quick reminder, that's one of our most intense commercial zoning districts. It allows everything from the smallest to very large scale of non-residential uses, including offices and things you don't find in a lot of our other zoning districts like liquor stores and the potential for adult entertainment venues.
 Again, the request is to rezone the northern 22 acres to UT urban thoroughfare, which removes some of the uses that some may find averse, such as, again, liquor stores and adult entertainment venues, and replacing those with residential uses, such as single, two, three, four-family, and multifamily dwellings.
 When looking at this request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did find it to be compatible. There's a significant amount of services and employment opportunities in the area. Although they're not readily apparent, there are quite a few. There's the Fayetteville Auto Park, of course, to the south along the interstate. Sam's Club is just west of that. And then there are a number of other different scales of employment opportunities in the area.
 Additionally, it's worth noting that the council took action on property immediately to the northwest of here recently to rezone a portion along 112 there to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Not to say that that justifies this rezoning, but it certainly indicates that similar uses may be potential immediately in the near vicinity.
 Similarly, it's worth noting that that vague blue area to the west that's designated as a planned zoning district, as the council knows, zoning districts can be used for a lot of things from low density residential to something much more intense. In this case, that planned zoning district does allow for quite a bit of intensity.
 As it was approved, it's allowed for about 856,000 square feet of commercial, about 1,700 housing units. So that entitlement is still there, and it does suggest that it would be very complementary to the Urban Therapeutic Zoning District with its similar allowance for non-residential and residential uses.
 Looking at the request from an adopted plan standpoint, staff finds the request to align with our future land use map, which calls this property out as an urban center area. Urban center is the highest anticipated intensity and density designation on our future land use map, and UT being one of our most highest intensity and density entitled zoning districts in the city makes it an appropriate match in staff size requirements.
 Similarly, we feel it complements City Plan 2040. While this may not be a conventional infill site in a lot of people's minds, the access to all the aforementioned services and employment opportunities are complemented further by the ability for this property to connect to existing infrastructure and also very close proximity to the interstate and this allowance for future residents or employees to access the wider region.
 Getting into other issues that bear consideration certainly, circling back to the floodplain question, staff is very cognizant of the fact that about two-thirds of the property is within floodplain. Those who attended the tour did get to see that there was quite a bit of water on the site. There is very little fall as it goes to the south. There was a lot of standing water in Clyburn Creek in that area, which I'll touch on in a moment when I talk about Highway 112.
 That said, and as I've said several times before, staff puts a lot of stake in our recent stormwater standards. And in particular note is any changes to our floodplain requires a floodplain study and a permit that clearly shows that no adverse impacts are being pushed off on adjacent property owners or those downstream of the property.
 Other considerations were public comment. Perhaps surprisingly, there was no particular comment in favor or opposed to this, thus I perceive, but there were a significant number of inquiries. If you watch local news or read the local paper, you now saw that this request had a lot of coverage. So there were a number of people inquiring as to what was going to be done, which being a rezoning request, we can't say with any degree of certainty at this time.
 Lastly, I did want to touch on the incoming improvements to Highway 112 because that did have a fair amount of bearing on staff's recommendation. Currently Highway 112 along this property's frontage is a two-lane street and continuing to add more and more zoning entitlements on that would potentially cause staff concern except for the degree of what RDoT's proposing on this property. It includes kind of three parts that we feel complements the request. There's street, trail, and drainage.
 Being a Department of Transportation engineering document, I know this what you see doesn't really make a lot of sense to you or it's not very visible. But what you're looking at is a proposal for a four-lane divided highway with medians to limit access points.
 I think the closest corollary you can think of in the city of Fayetteville is Crossover Road north of Township. As a part of these improvements, the city is entering into an access management agreement with the state, which is even higher and more strenuous than our own city's access management agreement. So that definitely plays a strong role in ensuring a minimum of traffic congestion and also a minimum number of interactions between properties and the street itself.
 That said, there's also the potential to have non-vehicular traffic along here. As part of the project, the city is putting in some money to have a trail built along the west side of the highway that will go all the way north where the tunnel will be built going under the intersection of 112 and Van Asch to connect to the trail system there.
 And the last piece, which I think had a significant bearing, especially after visiting the tour, are several of the drainage improvements that the state is proposing to make with this request.
 as council member wedeker probably saw with me on the property uh the culverts there today are like are not capable of handling uh the existing uh flows uh there are two 72 inch by 48 inch pipes going under highway 112 uh with the state's project they're proposing to double that and increase the capacity of all four culverts so it'll be a a quad
 culvert of 96 inches by 60 inches each. So it'll be more than doubling the capacity there, which certainly puts staff at more ease, understanding that a wider regional effort is being made to ensure that water is moving through the area.
 With that said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to City Council unanimously. They felt that given the very similar zoning entitlements allowed on the property between C2 that's there today and UT, which is requested, they had a strong preference for UT Urban Thoroughfare given its allowance for residential uses.
 its promotion of placing buildings closer to the street and also heightened the design standards that it was much more appropriate than the existing zoning district. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Kelly Comer Steinward is the applicant here tonight. I see that there are some other members of the development team that may be also interested in speaking to council. Thank you. Do we have any, does anyone have any comments or questions for Jonathan?
 Okay, seeing none, applicant, would you like to add anything to what Mr. Kurth has said?
 Good evening. Steve Brooks on behalf of the applicant. I don't really have much to add from what Jonathan described about the site and its particular uses other than the same comment I made in the Planning Commission hearing, which was to reiterate comments that have been made regarding the use of the property and its drive-in theater. Although I can't say much about the particulars of the plan.
 The plan does include use of the site as continuing to be used as a drive-in theater. There is a drive-in plan for this site. I would also reiterate, I know he mentioned it, but this urban thoroughfare zoning comports very well with the 2030 and 2040 plans adopted by the city. And I do believe it is the proper zoning for this particular project and this particular use.
 And then the final thing, I too would like to urge the council to pass this ordinance tonight. We as with all developers are under deadlines with the seller and we have contractual deadlines, we have development deadlines, dealing with weather and things of that nature. So outside of that, that's all I have. Happy to answer any questions that the council has. Okay, we'll call you back up if we have any questions for you. So I guess we go on to public comment now.
 And before we start that, I'd like to say everyone has one turn to speak. Five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or a council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. And those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. And then we'll move on to anyone in the chamber that would like to speak. Susan, do we have anybody on Zoom? We do. Cori Johnson. Okay, Cori.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yes, we can. Great. Hi, my name is Corey Johnson, 226 East Lee Street. I'm a homeowner and a resident of Fayetteville. I've lived here over 20 of the last 25 years of my life. I've been a patron of the 112 Drive-In since I moved here in 1998.
 I want to start off by saying that I see the rezoning as unfortunately inevitable. What I do have an objection to, however, is what has led us here in the first place. As a city we failed to protect one of our most iconic landmarks, and this isn't the first time something like this has happened. After 15 years we're only now beginning the process of fixing the eyesore that is the half-demolished and abandoned mountain Insight, another icon of Fayetteville decimated by questionable deals from mysterious out-of-town developers masquerading as urban renewal.
 The 112 Drive-In has been a haven for families in NWA for over 40 years. It's an affordable entertainment option for the lower and middle classes of Northwest Arkansas and one of the last places a large family can go to enjoy a fun night out at a reasonable price.
 As a rapidly growing city, we have to make some really difficult choices about where and how to grow. We have to take into account amenities as well as housing. A dense housing district with an indoor-outdoor theater slash beer garden will almost certainly price out the current clientele of the drive-in. Reducing the drive-in component from almost 400 car stalls to a little over 45 will turn an accessible, cost-effective, populous destination into a little more than a curio that charges a premium price for a nostalgic novelty.
 Fold that into the fact that we have no concrete information on who plans to own, construct, or even operate this replacement theater, or really any confirmation that this will get approved or built in the first place, then this entire development proposal feels like an empty promise to soothe the justified concerns of citizens outraged by the very idea.
 At this point, it seems like the city has two options. Rezone the property and hope it becomes the dense, mixed-use development that provides a wide range of housing and amenities the proposal promises, or deny the rezoning and let the property fester as a parking lot or car dealership or ugly hole in the ground when the lack of rezoning scuttles the deal and the current owners of the drive-in are forced to close.
 Either way, it may end up an ugly hole in the ground, but that's beside the point. They're both unacceptable options. This is gentrification painted in a rose-tinted language of positive, progressive urban planning. We're pricing the working class out of this city, and the demise of the 112 drive-in is yet another concession to the soulless cookie-cutter development projects that are pushing out said working class.
 Please don't mistake me on this though, this isn't NIMBYism. The city needs more housing and it needs to be affordable. In fact, do build it in my backyard. And you know, maybe you'll build some sidewalks in my neighborhood while we're at it too. But any development project must also be conscious to retain the very institutions that make Fayetteville such an attractive, vibrant, and wonderful place to live. This new development will serve only as a cruel mockery that places an invisible wall between the people who used to enjoy one of our most unique and cherished landmarks and the newer,
 wealthier people its replacement will inevitably cater to. If the drive-in must go away, how can we ensure that its lands utilization will go towards affordable housing, affordable entertainment options, and the general betterment of the city? And how can the city government ensure the survival of our independent art and cultural spaces?
 The pandemic took a grave toll on these spaces locally and nationwide. And if we don't act now, we may lose what's left of our purported funk that isn't already heavily subsidized by any of our regional billionaire benefactors. That's all I have to say about that. Okay. Thank you very much. We don't have any more on Zoom. We don't have any more on Zoom. Okay. Is there anyone in the chambers that would like to address this item?
 Okay. Seeing none, then I will bring it back to the council for discussion and what direction do you guys want to go on this?
 Independent of the drive-in, I believe the UT is probably the best use here. Very close to the highway, so the increased density would have access to that. I'm sure a lot of the people that would work here probably head up north to work, and then some of them may even go south.
 On the drive in, obviously, I would hate to see that go. My family frequents there. I would love it if we could freeze Ferryville. I mean, I said that when I got on city council and ran for city council last
 it would be nice if we could freeze favor but we can't things things evolve uh either evolve or die um and and i think that this gives the best chance not guaranteed i'm i'm not guaranteeing
 that the drive-in would live if we make this change. And we don't have the guarantee it will live if we don't make this change. And it may actually happen quicker if we were to vote this down, because the family may go ahead and just sell it C2. As a real estate agent, I know that they could sell it at C2 pretty quickly.
 So I'm glad that they're bringing something forward I think would be better. Affordable or not, we need more housing. If we limit only housing to some metric that is impossible, then we limit all housing and then we get less and then everything becomes less affordable. So I think this plan is reasonable.
 I really, really hope that they stick to somewhat their promise to build some form of drive-in. My family has enjoyed what's there and I hope that I will be able to enjoy what comes after. Thank you. Jonathan, please remind us a little bit about what could go on the property under its current zoning. We had, you know, it's a high commercial zoning.
 that's correct it's uh i i it's a very broad in its allowances so it's hard to be specific i mean if you can imagine a non-residential like a commercial development it would be allowed in c2 is this maybe a really broad way to answer it i mean it could be uh it could be a small mom paw store it could be a walmart super center it could be a gas station it
 It could be offices, it could be a church, or a synagogue or something similar to that. That anything about housing basically, or industrial uses like warehousing or manufacturing. So pretty much covering a lot of more industrial and commercial uses, but not housing.
 No, not industrial or manufacturing. Not industrial, sorry. But commercial uses, but not housing. Right. It's very much one of our very conventional, what planners call Euclidean zoning districts, where the idea is that we need to separate uses because they're all noxious to each other, which has arguably contributed to a lot of the concerns we see residents express today about congestion and traffic because we're in a situation where we're driving to meet all our needs. Okay. Thank you.
 I have a comment that I'd like to share. I think right now the way it's being used as a drive-in is appropriate. And it's appropriate because of that huge floodplain that's right there that we've seen demonstrated. However...
 We have no guarantee that that drive-in will stay the way it is. In essence, this broadens what can be used there with residential. And I just hope that our standards are rigorous enough to ensure that whatever is put there, that it is not going to impact downstream or nationwide.
 new residents in that area because that is a very large area that's in the floodplain. So those are my comments. And I'm also sorry to see the drive-in go. And it has been, I think, just a really wonderful gathering area for all incomes of people and also a landmark. Thank you.
 This is Sonia. I have just one more clarification maybe for Jonathan. So in the current zoning in C2, the drive-in is allowed to exist without a conditional use permit. And is, I guess, or how is that working? And then is it going to be allowed in urban thoroughfare? Are there any extra hoops that they need to go through to be allowed?
 to continue to operate as a drive-in. The C2 zoning district that's on the property today allows drive-ins by right. It's classified as an outdoor commercial use on a large site. The UT zoning district, however, allows it only as a conditional use. So the way that may look is if the drive-in were to continue operation after
 Let me step back. If council were to rezone the property as requested, the drive-in could continue to operate indefinitely as long as they didn't cease for more than six months. I think you all heard me talking about nonconforming uses. If you keep doing them, you can keep doing them. If you cease doing them, you might lose your entitlement to them. Okay.
 But it is also worth noting that the southern, I believe it's about 13 acres of the property is proposed to remain C2, which could allow a drive-in elsewhere on the property. Does that answer your question, Council Member Harvey?
 I think so. So essentially the part that is not going to be rezoned could potentially allow them to always, to not have to go through extra hoops to maintain their drive-in status. Is that correct? Because it's mostly on, is there something about the percentage of the property that needs to be or?
 Okay for them to operate the drive-in or would all of the property have to be okayed? I may be able to describe it better. The drive-in today could continue to operate regardless of the zoning if they maintain it in operation, whether it's UT or C2, if the applicant's proposing to redevelop or
 the property, whether it's a different portion of it or not. If it's in the C2 area, it would be allowed by right. If it's in the UT area, there would be a conditional use permit or a hoop, as you described it, that they would have to go through.
 Okay. Yes, I think that did clarify. Thanks for explaining it again a second time. I think I just really want there to be a good communication for the drive-in owner to understand that they have this little window to continue to operate if they so choose.
 and obviously it looks and sounds like the community would really love to see it continue and I would too but unfortunately you know there's a financial part to that so I'm hoping that the community will come out and support the drive-in financially if that's in fact what the community wants.
 In terms of the rezone, I do think some housing would be helpful around there. Maybe some people would like to live there and go work at the drive-in. And to reiterate, I concur with Council Member Turr that I'm hoping our standards are strong enough to deal with the floodplain issues. So thanks for answering my questions, Jonathan. You know, I'm going to add a little bit here.
 You know, I would love for the 112 drive-in to stay exactly like it is. There are a lot of things in Fayetteville I would like to see. You know, I like the idea of them staying just exactly the same. But it's my understanding that this has belonged, this land has belonged in this one family, I guess, since the drive-in was started there.
 And, you know, they've kept it as a drive-in and they've used it and now they're ready to give the, you know, to sell the land to someone else to take on to, you know, the next stage in its life.
 They didn't buy the land intending to only have affordable housing on it. They didn't buy it or they're not selling it, you know, just to have affordable entertainment or affordable housing. They're selling it because they no longer want to run the drive-in or they're ready to retire or whatever. It happens all the time.
 That's what people do with their property. They sell it or they pass it on to their heirs. And, you know, unfortunately, you know, it may mean that the drive-in doesn't stay in its current configuration. But I think this is an appropriate place for rezoning. I like the options that would be provided under this zoning much better than I like the current zoning.
 and I'm going to be in favor of this and hope that we can maintain some of the integrity and the charm of the original drive-in. You know, I hope we can do that because I know it's an icon in this area, and we just don't have many drive-ins anymore, and it's kind of a charming feature of Fayetteville, and I really would like to see part of it, at least in some incarnation, remain there. So those are my comments.
 I also hate to see it go. Hey, Sarah, you might remember this. Remember the 71 drive-in? It had a little train that went around and went underneath the... I actually do. I wish it was still around, but it isn't because, as Sarah said, properties go through transformation one way or the other, and the proposed zoning in this property is certainly...
 I think an improvement over the current zoning and
 Just comparing the two, they could keep the 112 drive-in like it is, as it's been stated, for as long as they want to operate it that way. But moving forward and looking at the growth of the city, I think it's absolutely appropriate to rezone this. And this is just the north part of the property that we were looking at. So it's...
 a little bit higher than that that is closer to the creek. I had a flood experience out there and actually destroyed one of my cars because it seemed like a tidal wave came off the creek and flooded out my car, and I went ahead and drove it to work and threw a rock. But neither here nor there, there was a big problem of flooding across the highway there. And so I think with the new construction of the highway, it's even that much easier
 more timely to go ahead and see this get developed and help manage the floodwater that already backs up on the curve down there anyway. So I certainly support this. I have concerns about building in a floodplain. This is a broad floodplain that's very flat, so I think that it can be engineered
 pretty well looking at the vast area that's involved. So I certainly am supporting this also and hope that we move forward tonight so the developers can get started on their project. Yeah, so I hope we can move forward tonight. We have definitely gotten a lot of comments about this on the last couple of weeks. Most of them are concerned about the dry bed. And I believe that this is the best way to
 possibly have a future for that drive-in. So I'll move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Oh, it's me. We have a, this is just so odd being the chair and the council member at the same time. So we have a motion and a second to go to the next reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 22-017, located at 3352 North Highway 112 in Ward 2, for approximately 22.32 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. So that is the second reading. Thank you.
 Move to suspend rolls and go to third and final reading. I'll second that. Thank you. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Gliederfer? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-017, located at 3352 North Highway 112 in Ward 2, for approximately 22.32 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Thank you very much. Do we have any final comments from council before we take our last vote? Okay. Seeing none, Kara, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Kenyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes yes thank you very much okay our next item is this is item 3 it's a resolution to amend a 7e courtesy and respect
 and A.D. 2 public comments of the rules of order and procedure of the Fayetteville City Council to better conform with recent First Amendment court decisions.
 I brought this forward, which is pretty rare, but if there is an issue that I think is legal or constitutional that needs some consideration and hopefully fixing by the Fayetteville City Council, then that's when I would bring something to you. And as I told you, actually as far back as January, I felt that there was some need to change some of the rules of procedure to try to keep up with the evolving law of the First
 It keeps changing and getting more and more strict all the time to make sure that government is not impeding someone's First Amendment rights. And so the first part of this suggested change that I have.
 would be to remove a rule, I mean a word that I really do like in our current rules of order and procedure, that people are supposed to not be rude to each other. Well, I'm all in favor of that. I think that's a great thing. I don't like rudeness almost anywhere.
 Unfortunately, rude is too much of a general term to be able to pass a First Amendment test by the Supreme Court or any court. And so we just need to remove rude. But on the other hand, we do have some good words we can put in there in its place.
 and they come mainly from a case that was subsided this year by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, who was considering the rules of order and procedure of another local government body and found that those rules were constitutional. And those rules allowed two major things, one of which we do already, which says you must stay on topic.
 That you don't, you know, when you have a limited public forum like we have, you just can't come up there and get up and talk about the weather or the Razorbacks unless there's a resolution about them or don't talk much about them. But anyway, you're supposed to stay right on topic there and not waste the council's time by talking about something that's not even before the council.
 So that's the first thing, and we've already got that pretty well taken care of. But the second thing is the route that we need to move away from. But I think we can use some of the same words that we have now and add a little bit that the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals sustained. And so I wanted to change what we have now.
 2. All shall refrain from comments that are harassing or amount to a personal attack against any identifiable individual, including abusive comments and derogatory remarks about the integrity, or offer any other comments that are also not limited to the discussion of a specific agenda item being considered by the City Council.
 I think that particular requirement for comments is constitutional. And I think it actually, in most ways, follows what we have right now. But it just makes it where we're no longer using rude, which is just too general a term to maintain within our rules. So I'm certainly ready to answer any questions you might have on that. This change also removes a sentence
 that was added in January that was kind of confusing. And even though we talked about it that night and I tried to clarify that and then wrote a memo the next morning saying it doesn't give a department any kind of censorship, that the only person to control that is the mayor. But I think we don't need that sentence either, and so I'd like to remove that sentence too. So if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them.
 Does, do any council members have any questions for Kit on this item? Okay. Do, do we need public comment on this as well? Yeah. Public comment on everything. That's what I will say. Public comment, public comment. So do we have any members, anybody on Zoom that wants to comment on this? We do not have a hand raised. Okay. Any, anybody in the audience would like to comment on this? Yes.
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. It's a resolution, so there's need a motion rather than any suspending the rules. Yeah, I agree with the change. I think me and any parent who's ever tried to give kids vegetables that they call root or stuff like that. So the definition of root is very wide. So I move to approve the resolution. Okay. Second. Second.
 So we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you, Kit.
 Our next item is C4. It's a resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by adding North Hemlock Avenue, Millsap Road, and Futral Drive as neighborhood link streets. That might be Chris. I think that's Chris. It is Chris Brown. Here he is. I was just waiting for my invitation. Sorry.
 So this item is to add back Futurall Drive and Millsap Road to the Master Street Plan. They were on the Master Street Plan prior to the 2040 update. And then also to add a section of Hemlock Avenue, which connects Millsap.
 East of college Avenue to the new Saint Street connection. Really the primary purpose of this is to make these streets eligible for federal aid funding. In order to be eligible for federal aid, these streets have to be on the functional classification map, which is maintained by the State Highway Department.
 In order to be on the functional classification map, they have to be on our Master Street Plan first. So for this reason, we're requesting these be added to the Master Street Plan map and then we can proceed with those other steps and I can answer any questions. Do we have any questions for Chris? Chris, this did go to the Transportation Committee, didn't it?
 Yes, it did. It has been to Planning Commission and also to Transportation Committee. I believe we had unanimous recommendations from both. Okay, thank you. So any council comments on that? Any member of the public want to discuss this item? Nobody on Zoom? No, ma'am. Anyone in the chamber? Nope. Okay. So what do we need to do to motion? Move to approve the resolution. Second. Second.
 Okay, so we have a motion and a second to amend the Master Street Plan. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you. Our next item.
 C5 this is an ordinance to repeal 163.12 tandem lot development and in act 1.6 excuse me 164.25 tandem lot development in the unified development code to provide an administrative approval process for tandem lot development I believe that's it's Britain you get to read it first okay sorry
 whereas the creation of a tandem lot currently requires approval of the conditional use permit by the planning commission and whereas on march 28 2022 the planning commission voted to forward amendment to the unified development code for the city council to consider that would provide an administrative approval process for proposed tandem lots that meet the minimum lot size and access requirements now therefore be ordained by the city council the city of arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville hereby repeal Section 163.12 Tandem Lot Development of the Unified Development Code in its entirety, and Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enact Section 164.25 Tandem Lot Development into the Unified Development Code as shown in Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so, um,
 Yes, thank you so much Vice Mayor Bunch. Council members, good evening. I'm Britton Bostick, the Long-Range Planning Special Projects Manager. And so the item before you for me tonight is Tandem Lot Development. This is an item that does come to you from the Planning Commission. So they occasionally originate amendments to the Unified Development Code and this is one of those items. It started in their Long-Range Committee and their
 Consideration was for tandem lots and specifically the setbacks in the approval requirement for those. So what is a tandem lot? Our unified development code defines a tandem lot as a lot which has less than 50% of the required frontage on a public street and which is located behind a conforming lot or a portion of a community.
 conforming lot. A little illustration here to show an example could be someone has a very long, deep backyard, a size that would allow for an entire other lot but not the lot width that would provide full compliance with our code.
 They may have the opportunity to do a tandem lot which is also called a flag lot because of the shape or also a pork chop lot which is kind of a funny name but one that has been used. Under what the planning commission is recommending, the key feature here is changes to the setback requirements.
 Currently, setbacks for tandem lots are 15 feet for all zoning districts. That's the distance a building must be from the property line at a minimum. The Planning Commission proposes to have these adjusted to be more in line with the individual zoning district.
 In the RA zoning district you have setbacks of 35 feet and so tandem lot setbacks would also be 35 feet for that RSF.5 and RSF.1, the much less dense zoning districts. When you get into the more dense zoning districts with shallower setbacks in our code, RSF.8, RMF.24, those would be down to 5 feet. So you see more of a range instead of the straight 15 feet across the board.
 So that was in order to kind of provide a little more flexibility, excuse me, in where the building footprint could go and make a little bit more of an adjustment on the lot if that were appropriate.
 The second piece that the Planning Commission is recommending to the council is to accommodate an administrative approval process. So right now these requirements live in our conditional use section of the code meaning that anyone who wants a tandem lot has to go to the Planning Commission for approval of a conditional use permit before their lot split could be approved.
 And so in what the Planning Commission is proposing, this would move to a development standard section of our code, which is why you see the move from 163 to 164. And that would provide for administrative approval or staff level approval as long as the lot size and development standards are met.
 The planning commission is making this recommendation because on reviewing the tandem lots that do come to them through the conditional use permit process, they are finding a very rare instance in which they would not approve because they generally meet.
 If a variance is needed for a zoning standard, it would still have to go to the Board of Adjustment. And if a variance to development standards were needed, then it would still have to go to the Planning Commission. So staff has limited ability to approve under what they're proposing. And so when staff reviewed these proposed changes, we did find it was consistent with three of our city plan 2040 goals.
 Goal one, making appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority. Goal three, making compact, complete, and connected development the standard. This does, of course, encourage infill and compact development. And then goal six is that we will create opportunities for attainable housing
 One of the features of a tandem lot is it potentially gives a property owner the ability to subdivide and sell property they may not otherwise have the opportunity to do. It also potentially creates a situation in which you could have separate lots with separate houses where family could live close together if that was their situation.
 And so staff in the Planning Commission are recommending approval. The vote in the Planning Commission was 8 to 0. We have not received any public comment either for the Planning Commission or for the Council item. So that concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer questions. Mr. Kurth is also available to answer questions. Thank you very much, Ms. Bostick. I'm sorry I mispronounced your name. Not at all. Thank you. In the beginning. Do we have, does Council have any questions about this?
 Okay. Do we have any public comment on this item? Is there anyone on Zoom, Susan? No, ma'am. Okay. Anyone in the chamber want to address this? Now's your chance. Okay. Thank you very much. No public comment, so I'm going to bring this back to the council. So we need one vote on this, is that correct? Well, it's an ordinance, so you'd have to suspend the rules if you wanted to go through the final vote. Okay. So...
 What would the council members like to do on this item? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, so we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to repeal Section 163.1.2, Tandem Lot Development, and enact Section 164.25, Tandem Lot Development. And the Unified Development Codes provide an administrative approval process for Tandem Lot Development. Thank you. I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 Okay, so we have a motion to go to the third and final reading. Kara, in a second, Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. An ordinance to repeal Section 163.12 Tandem Lot Development and enact Section 164.25 Tandem Lot Development in Unified Development Code to provide an administrative approval process for Tandem Lot Development. Thank you. Do we have any additional comments before we take our final vote? Okay, seeing none, Kara, would you call the roll? Kenyon?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you.
 That concludes our business for this evening. Do we have any announcements? Susan? Yes, ma'am. We have two announcements. Councilmember Kenyon was remiss in not having the details for me about the bulky waste cleanup. So Saturday, May 14th is the Ward 2 bulky waste cleanup and that will be at St. James Baptist Church on North Street and or at the Recycling and Trash Center.
 Read full details about what's available on our website. I mean, what you're welcome to drop off at our website. And then the second announcement would be that our Thursday evening Summer Gully Park Concert Series starts June 9th, and there will be six unique performances between June 9th through mid-July. So everybody get on the website, pick your performers, and mark your calendars. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you very much. Do we have any other? And before you adjourn, I don't have an announcement, but I want to congratulate our vice mayor and the city council on a very productive night. You all did very well, and you didn't keep very much into old business, though, so I don't know what we're going to do at the next meeting.
 Maybe I just threw everybody off by the fact that I couldn't keep up with who was supposed to read next. No, thank you so much. I mean, you really did a great job. I'll get better, I swear. But maybe our mayor will be back pretty soon. I think he will. But anyway, that concludes. Oh, excuse me, Kara, did you have something?
 Yes, thank you so much, Vice Mayor Bunch. Just wanted to let everyone know, and you've heard me mention this and seen an email that comes out. We now have two ways that you can submit public comment to come directly to the council. You can still submit that via the form that's on the website. If you'd rather use email, you now can. And you would send that to the agenda item comment at Fayetteville-AR.gov. And my second announcement I'd like to make is,
 the city of fayetteville has been selected to host the international institute of municipal clerks regional meeting for 2023 so we're very excited to be able to do that so i do want to ask council members when we get closer at that time do want to let you know i'll be reaching out to you i would like to show how wonderful our city is and incorporate you know all of the different departments
 and the different council members. So thank you so much. Each of you bring something that's so special to the table and I feel so grateful that I get to live here in the city of Fayetteville and get to work with each of you on a daily basis. So thank you. Okay, thank you, Kara. Any other announcements? Okay, seeing none, we are adjourned.