I want to call the City Council meeting of May the 4th, 2021 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Turk. Erksford. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Kenyon. Petty. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Mayor Jordan. Here. Erksford.
 When you start to pledge allegiance, I don't know if we can do much business here. Right. We are not able to hear the Zoom participants. If you'll give us one second. Okay, let's go ahead and do the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen.
 um okay how many do we have present care by roll call three based on being able to see the video i have that council member bunch and then council member scroggins is here i saw council member petty's name on zoom council member jones council member gutierrez and hertzberger here
 Councilmember Turk has raised her hand. Yeah, that's good. I can see you all. I just can't hear you. So I don't – I think we're going to have to wait until we can get – Well, you might be able to go through consent, but after that, you won't be able to do much. Okay. There are technicians that are working on it. They can hear you.
 Okay, very good then. I want to welcome everyone. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, City Council Members, City Staff, and the public participating in this meeting virtually and in person.
 Participation is of utmost importance to the City of Federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including joining in person at City Hall, joining virtually through zoom, viewing through federal government channel online or the city's YouTube channel. If you're joining through zoom, you must raise your virtual hand to request to speak during the public comment period.
 You can do this by clicking the raise hand option in Zoom online or by pressing star nine on your phone. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone.
 for instructions on how to use zoom please go to the city of federal website and type zoom instructions in the search bar if you're attending the meeting in person you must sign up to speak by completing a public comment form forms can be found on the table outside of the chambers i will take public comment virtually first to give in-person attendees enough time to line up to speak
 Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one term to choose from.
 turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote if public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes the city council may allow both a speaker additional time
 and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. So, we have the, well, we have the monthly finance report. Okay. Okay. Hang on just a minute, Paula. Are we making any connections here? Sarah, would you say something once more?
 uh keith asked me to call good good did you hear me okay all right all right very good then paul go ahead and give me finance support good evening mayor and council this report will be the end of first quarter for 2021 so that's through the month of march we discussed sales tax sales tax
 For the month of March was a little soft compared to what it had been for the last few months. It was still up, was still positive for the city, 1.45%. However, if we look at where we are at the end of the first quarter, we're up over 8% for the first quarter in sales tax. Alcohol, beverage, and alcohol.
 taxes, building permits, charges for services, courts fees and fines. They were all down, however, for the period compared to last year. However, if we look at the total perspective, we're up 4.2% over what the budgeted revenue was at this point in time because of the strong sales tax showing in January and February.
 I want to take this time to refresh the council's memory that we are looking at having to make up about $2.5 million worth of revenue to structurally
 get our budget in line to revenue, equal expenditures, which are certainly what our goal needs to be, what all municipalities' goals need to be. So we're up very close to half a million dollars so far in the general fund. Now if we extrapolate that out and things continue at this level, we would be up over $2 million
 in revenue, we would be very close to where we'd want to be. So that's what we're looking at going forward. What I anticipate seeing going forward right now, we're looking at comparing numbers for January and February of 2020, which were before the coronavirus, before we started seeing our decline.
 So going forward, we're looking at numbers that are after the coronavirus. So I would expect the sales tax is going to soften a bit.
 But I think the other fees are going to start coming back, such as building permits, alcohol beverage taxes, court fees and fines, and of course charges for services, such as park charges, et cetera. So I think we're going to see a little shift.
 But I still think we're going to do fine compared to last year going forward. That's the general fund, and that's what I see for the general fund, what my analysis right now is. Now if we look at the street fund, the street's doing very well. The wholesale gas tax, absent sales tax dedicated to transportation.
 is doing very well. We're up about 7% compared to the budget for that. So our revenue is going well and our expenses are in line with what I would anticipate at this point in time. Parking fees are certainly soft. They're 80% of the budget at this point in time.
 That's the parking fee. The fines are two-thirds of what they normally are, so that's good for our citizens, but it's a little soft in revenue. Overall, we're about 77% of the budget. Remember, I did pull that budget back, and I did pull the expenditure budget back, so if I look at...
 the situation at this point in time revenue is pretty well balancing to expenditures we had some expenses that were holding back and staffing etc in the parking fund so right now we're holding our own expenses are roughly equaling revenue even though revenue is down for the period hmr taxes march was extremely strong
 in HMR taxes compared to last year. It was up 9%, almost 9% for the period of time. We're down compared to 2020, in total 7%. But we want to refresh our memories. And remember, we were down 75%, 80% of last year in HMR taxes. So they're starting to really come up now.
 As a reminder, I pulled back that budget for revenue also for this year because I thought HMR taxes would probably be soft. So we're up over 15 percent compared to budget at this point in time. So we're in good shape as far as HMR taxes are concerned at this point in time. Water and sewer, water and sewer billings are up 8 percent. Usage is 8.
 Over 8% more water use so far this year than last year, and about 5.4% increase in the sewer charges. So revenue billings are up at roughly half a million dollars for the period. However, I want to remind the council that because we are not cutting off nonpayment, we're not charging penalties as yet. We're going to have to look at that very soon.
 We do have outstanding receivables of roughly $1.4 million at this point in time. As far as recycling and trash is concerned, we're down compared to budget by 6% at this point in time. However, for the month of March, we're up 12% compared to last year. That's good and bad. A little good and a little bad that trash is up, but revenue is up. Commercial is still soft.
 as our commercial enterprises are still coming back. So their hauling charges, et cetera, our down-pull charges, things of that nature.
 We're down about 1.2% compared to last year, so we're pretty even with last year, and we should expand going forward because, again, that's when we hit the coronavirus or the new months we're going to be comparing ourselves to. When I look at the airport, we're currently down 3% from budgeted sales as far as fuel sales are concerned.
 But the good thing that I want to point out to you, in fuel sales for the airport, we were almost double sales in March as we were last year. So traffic is up.
 Sales of fuel looks like it's coming up. We're still a little behind in revenue. However, things are looking much brighter than they were a year ago for the airport. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. And certainly, if we have technical difficulties, anybody can call me to ask questions also. But at this point in time, are there any questions?
 what questions do we have in the council for paul on this okay thank you paul thank you next order business we have tonight is the consent agenda number one approval of the april 20th 2021 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a budget adjustment for the community resources division in total amount of 11 509 representing donations from citizens and local
 Number three, a resolution to approve task order number eight with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center any amount of $73,000 for continued native vegetation establishment efforts and minor adjustments within completed restoration project plans.
 projects area project areas number four a resolution to award bid number 21-31 to prove the purchase of two trucks from lewis board of federal in total amount of 151 680 dollars for use by the animal services division
 Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Kenworth dump truck from MHC Kenworth of Springdale, Arkansas, for the amount of $167,000 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract used by the Transportation Division. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 21-32 and approve the purchase of one international truck from Ken Recycling,
 body from Summit Truck Group of Little Rock in the amount of $191,000 for use by the Recycling Trash Collection Division. Number 7, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Kubota tractor and a track loader with forestry mulcher from Springdale Tractor for the total amount of $132,995
 and 77 cents plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract and to approve a budget adjustment. Number eight, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplement Appropriation Act grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in a total amount of $57,162.
 to provide pandemic-related crisis relief to Drakefield Airport and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number nine, a resolution to authorize a grant agreement with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for acceptance of a certified local government grant in the amount of $65,000 to complete a community-wide preservation plan and a cultural resource survey of the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods and to approve budget adjustment. Number 10,
 A resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $32,942.89 plus tax and freight charges from J.R. Stewart Pump and Equipment Incorporated for the repair of a pump at the Gregg Avenue lift station. Number 11, a resolution to authorize the mayor to sign a memorandum of agreement with the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas on behalf of the Division of Agriculture for Water Quality Studies.
 for the amount of thirty seven thousand six hundred and thirty one dollars and to approve project contingency in the amount of three thousand seven hundred and sixty three dollars and ten cents
 Number 12 a resolution to approve two contracts with McClellan consulting engineers incorporated in a total amount of $43,481 for materials testing services associated with construction of fire stations 8 and 9 to prove project contingency any amount of $6,000 and to approve a budget adjustment This is a 2019 fire facilities bond project and number 13 a
 resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $29,515 for materials testing services associated with a new police headquarters facility To approve a project contingency in the amount of six thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment This is the 2019 police headquarters bond project. I
 I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kinnian? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Next, under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district titled RPZD 21-003 for approximately 51.33 acres located at 2390 South Dead Horse Mountain Road to allow the development of 168 residential lots and one mixed-use lot. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Okay. An ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 21-003 for approximately 51.33 acres located at 2390 South Deadhorse Mountain Road to allow the development of 168 residential lots and one mixed use lot. Okay. Jonathan, I believe you have this. I do, Mayor. Thank you.
 I'm Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 Taking entitlements first, the project has seen both rezoning and development proposals before. In 2009, the villas at Stonebridge PZD was approved for 350 total units for the project. That was split among 166 single-family units and 184 multifamily units, which resulted in an average density across the property of about 6.6 units per acre.
 The preliminary plot that came more recently and followed the PZD's expiration was approved for 135 single-family lots, which was an average density of 2.5 acres, which was also a density cap that was resulted from a bill of assurance that came with its RSF4 zoning.
 And those both compare with the request before the council today, which is for another planned zoning district, which is for 169 lots with a potential 178 units, which creates a potential overall density for the lot of 3.5 units per acre.
 Regarding infrastructure, this part of Fayetteville has some interesting challenges when it comes to infrastructure. There are several low-lying areas that require lift stations to actually get our sanitary sewer to a point where gravity can take it to a wastewater treatment plant. There's a couple that you can see here represented by the little red squares to the northeast of the property, which is outlined in red.
 The one that's most pertinent to this discussion is the closest one, which is about halfway between this property and the subdivision to the northeast in the middle of the golf course. Currently today, that lift station pushes an eight-inch force main to the south, to that gray dot where you see there's a manhole, and then the sanitary sewer begins running by gravity down to the west fork of the White River and along there to our east side treatment plant.
 That is within a 20-foot water and sewer easement that was dedicated in 2006. And when this project came in, the question arose, similar to the last preliminary plot, is that there is a ridge running east-west through this property, which you can faintly see in the topography here, with everything north of it running to the north, which prevents it from directly accessing that manhole, which would allow gravity to take it elsewhere.
 So the question that came up at the last council meeting was how to get an eight inch gravity main, which is how sanitary sewer moves most efficiently north to the lift station before it can go back south to the manhole, which would take it to the wastewater treatment plant. Because the concern is between the existing eight inch force main and the eight inch gravity main, there is not enough room in a 20 foot easement to accommodate both of those manholes.
 So the question was, the assertion was that there's not enough easement that's necessary. And what staff did receive from the applicant in the intervening time between the last meeting was that an easement was dedicated by the previous property owner of the golf course in 2018, which
 to provide additional width to that easement to accommodate additional sanitary sewer main. Since the previous preliminary plat did not go through, I think that was something that just was never made apparent to city staff and I apologize for not having that information for you all last time. But by all indications, that easement is there now. It's been dedicated. It's recorded with the county and it should be available if this project were to be developed and moved forward.
 The third item I wanted to bring up was not one that was touched on at the last meeting, but came up in public comment, and that's concerned about the accuracy of the exhibit that staff has presented to you all. An email went out immediately before the meeting, so it's not reasonable to expect you all to have had an opportunity to look at that. But the issue at hand is this southernmost portion of the parcel that we had indicated in our Exhibit A for you all.
 was actually sold previously to a different property owner. And so the legal description that you all have in front of you reflects the actual PZD, which you see here does not include that leg of land. So at no point has the PZD or its lot layouts or anything been including that piece of it. That was just an inconsistency in the parcel records that we'd accidentally picked up in our maps.
 And so if the council, as they consider this item, I recommend considering the new exhibit which was sent out before the meeting, which accurately reflects the legal description that's been submitted to you all and removes that leg of property.
 And with that, and just as a reminder, staff and the Planning Commission do recommend approval of the request. It was a split vote at the Planning Commission. Those in favor appreciated that there was some variety in lot sizes and potential for services near the residential areas. And as part of Fayetteville, where there are not currently any. And those opposed had significant concerns about the, despite the potential for additional lot sizes, this is not a good place to have additional homes to begin with.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions, and I believe I have Mr. Tom Henley present virtually for the applicant. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant here, and do they want to speak to the City Council? Mr. Mayor, Council, Tom Henley is online. Tom Henley has got his hand raised.
 okay he'll be speaking the applicant has 10 minutes so whoever however y'all want to splice slice it up we'll let mr henley kick it off okay okay 10 minutes okay hey mr mayor hey i i did i appreciate the opportunity to speak and apologize for the delay i just just got the microphone and was able to unmute i assume everybody can hear me okay yes
 Again, I appreciate the opportunity to speak. I'm Tom Hanley with Kraft and Toll. I'm representing Mark Rouse, the developer, who I believe is there in the chambers with you as well as Bradley Bridges, my colleague from Kraft and Toll is there as well. I had to join remotely because I'm out of town. So in case anything happened, Bradley was there to help kind of jump in.
 I appreciate Jonathan clarifying some of the things that
 you know, were in error on the last submittal and would like to just kind of reiterate just a bit of the history. I don't want to get deep into that. But this project has a long storied history, or this property does. The project we brought through in 2018 was approved. It was approved at two and a half units per acre. But
 I think different from what staff reported, we were never made aware of the bill of assurance that was associated, that we came to understand was associated with property. When we brought this project through, in fact, when we got it approved in 2018, that was just the density that we came up with. And as it turned out, that developer that we were working for had those lots pre-sold,
 Before all the development costs were in, as we went through the city process, costs escalated due to off-site requirements and that sort of thing. The lock prices got such that the person he had them pre-sold to backed out. He subsequently sold the property to Mr. Rouse.
 And here we are today. After the 2018 approval, before Mr. Rouse bought it, we went to staff to ask for their help in coming up with ideas to be able to make this project more financially feasible.
 It was obvious that at two and a half units per acre, the infrastructure costs with the offsite water, the offsite sewer, the road extension to the west, there was just no way that this property would ever develop at that density. And so we went to staff, talked to Garner Stoll and Andrew Garner, and I can't remember who else was in that meeting.
 They recommended that we look at a PZD with a variety of densities or a variety of product, if you will, with tandem lots, alley-loaded lots, possibly townhome lots, and residential single-family traditional RSF4-style lots. And so we did that.
 And and and the the previous developer still did not want to develop it sold it to Mr. Rouse. Mr. Rouse came to us and said, Hey, we do you think we can get this approved? And we thought, absolutely. Because of the nature of how we came up with that with staff's assistance. And so we
 generated the Pcd brought it through planning commission, and through the course of planning commission approval, we took some recommendations that the planning commissioners gave us. Most importantly, the inclusion of one commercial lot on the West side of the property.
 and that lot has a restriction on it that it has to be developed commercial and the use units are very restricted. A tap room, a sandwich shop, something of that nature, but it has to have that. It can have residential above it, but it has to have a commercial component. The other
 item that we incorporated in at planning commission's recommendation was the block immediately east of that, that we allow use units for low impact professional type services, whether it's an architect or an accountant or an engineer or someone giving piano lessons or that sort of thing. Those use units would be allowed in those, in that one block, but they're not required. Unlike the one lot that is required.
 And so we were able to get that approved. The one abstention was a misunderstanding as, as I've come to understand and that he thought the previous developer who he had done some work for was still involved in it. And so he felt the need to abstain. I think we would have had a six, three vote on that, but regardless, this last meeting that that,
 Mr. Rhodes presented, I think the Mayor and I think it was in all council's packet, a letter that has some concerns that Mr. Kurth has since addressed.
 We have the easements, and as a matter of fact, the sewer easement to the northeast, it was written such that the current force main, which is partially out of an easement, would be brought into an easement. And additionally, additional width was given so that we could actually serve the property.
 We did have an easement to the south for the water line. That property subsequently sold. That easement was never executed, and so we had to find another route. There is a 30-foot utility easement to the east – I'm sorry, to the west – that we'll be able to access. I think we've addressed everything that the golf course is –
 They're upset about the name, which is fine. We can change the name. If they don't want Stonebridge or Meadows associated with it, we can come up with a different name. I think Mr. Rouse is in the audience and would like to speak to council as well. And after he's done, either myself or Bradley Bridges can take any questions you may have. Okay, Mr. Rouse.
 You have about four more minutes. Yes, I'm aware. I'm short on time. So I'm Mr. Rouse, Mark Rouse, the developer of the property, and I'll be quick. So what we're looking for in the city of Fayetteville, and I'm not sure if y'all are aware, but I have other subdivisions that I have developed and building in currently in Fayetteville, all my constructions in South Fayetteville. I don't have anything else going anywhere else. So I'm very dedicated to South Fayetteville and the development of Fayetteville.
 So what we've developed through this whole piece of property is what we would say social economic diversity. So if you want to build a subdivision, you want to push us back to an RSF4 zoning, yes, we can go do that, and we can build bigger lots,
 we won't get anywhere close to the rsf4's restriction that it's currently at now because we're at about 3.5 with the rp or pcd so we're not going to get to that but what's going to happen is those lots are going to get bigger more expensive so therefore more expensive houses what we're trying to create create is social economic diversity by having some larger lots some smaller lots
 to create that diversity so that there's a wide range of people that can afford these houses. And if we don't do this, we're not going to be able to get there because the development costs with off-site expenses, the road that we have to take up, access, the off-site sewer, water, all the other things we have to do, the cost is going to get so expansive that it's not feasible. So economic feasibility. Okay.
 Yes, I do this to make a living. I don't do it for free. I'm not going to go out here and build a subdivision, take the liability, and do this and not be able to make a profit, although I'm not trying to get rich on the city of Fayetteville or its residents, but I do have to be able to make it profitable, at least to make it feasible. So if we can't figure out a way...
 i.e., the PCD, to diversify the lots and create a few more lots in the subdivision to make it feasible, which makes it more accessible to more residents and payable.
 If we do the bigger houses, we're going to be up to $400,000 to $600,000. And I don't know how many people in Fayetteville can afford those houses. I'd say the vast majority of the residents can't and the people moving in can't. So let's keep this diversified so that we can have some houses below $300,000 and some probably up around $500,000 or $600,000 that back up to the golf course. So we're trying to create what we would say is not a subdivision or a neighborhood but a community.
 because we're going to do the multi-use facility where it's going to have some retail shops and things like that we're going to draw other people in outside of just this subdivision i.e being riverwalk subdivision across the road so what we're trying to create is not just a neighborhood or a subdivision i'm not trying to do that and if any or any of the council members are aware of what we're doing at treetops we took a subdivision that was defunct
 wasn't working, and now we have created an amazing subdivision that has huge demand with some very modern high-rise rooftop terrace houses and
 that you just don't see anywhere else in Fayetteville. So we want to kind of create that. So we have an area of the subdivision that would be sort of like the treetops houses. We have another area that would be what we would call more of a cottage style, narrow lots, rear entry, which I know the city of Fayetteville loves, and then just standard regular housing that we would have that would be back at the golf course like you'd see in other Stonebridge or parts of that.
 So, pardon? Time. So, all I'm trying to say is we're really trying to create a community, not just a subdivision. Time. And this is the third time around. Time. Okay. Time's up. Okay. I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the council? I believe I've got a question for staff.
 can we look back at the uh pzd map certainly are you looking for a map of the the lots is that right uh probably the other one the color coded or the lot one if you can find it okay we're flipped but i think i've got it um is there a reason we don't have a stub out uh i guess what would be the south of this map to the left did we i guess there is a stub out close yeah let me reorient it that may
 Certainly help me a little bit here. Okay, actually I see more stuff else than the last map. So I think yes I think they I'm sorry. Go ahead. Yeah, so I guess okay. I didn't see that one right there Previous so that answers my question there. Um, I guess the other thing I mean, I know this is pretty far out but but we're kind of being enticed by a mixed use of
 We've been enticed by mixed use before and then never got to see like the things that we actually kind of wanted. What mechanisms are there to actually kind of make the commercial come first? Because if we're going to vote for it because we're like hey we like mixed use and then we just end up getting rooftops again and then it never ends up mixed use because commercial never gets built.
 And this may be an open-ended question that's not solely just about this one, but I keep seeing that happen where we get enticed by stuff. And the stuff that we were interested in never gets built. Another example of that is on Crossover Spring House Village. We were super excited about this like pocket neighborhood and we spent all the time talking about the pocket neighborhood. And then lo and behold, we get the assisted living center and then like we never get the pocket neighborhood.
 So I just wondering, and it really isn't open to any question, like how can we, when we get enticed by stuff, that we actually get the things that we wanted and not like almost tricked like, oh, well, it's just more subdivision. Council Member Scroggins, I don't have an answer to your broader question, but if you would like, I don't know if you picked up on what the applicant's representative was saying. One tool that the commission has used and the council has also used is to...
 bind the entitlements of certain lots so that even if they were permitted to develop for mixed use, they were not allowed to have residential until commercial came first.
 similar to the I guess the Magnolia Place subdivision in Northwest Fayetteville at the end of Ruble they had a lot like that and the Commission had assigned a condition of approval for one of the lots in this subdivision for a similar standard that the applicant has agreed to.
 Okay, well anyway. Okay, I assume we're not going to approve this tonight, but I would like to have a meeting to talk about those a little bit more both for this one and in general because I feel like we've been tricked before. So, thank you. Okay. What are the questions we have in the council? I have a question. Okay.
 Jonathan, could you remind us what the infill score is on this development? Certainly. Let me get that pulled up. I believe it was between a three and a five, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe just one moment here. And then I have another question too.
 It looks like the sewer requirements are fairly significant and complicated. Thank you for drawing that map out for us. That was extremely helpful.
 My question is, are there going to be additional costs to the city in any of this? Are we going to have to upgrade the lift station or is the developer, if that is required, the developer will be required to do that? I understand that they'll have to place a larger pipe in there, but I'm just wondering about what other costs for such a large development may the city be on the hook for? Sure.
 Those are good questions and taking your first question first about the infill score. It was a mix between two and a four. As you guys have seen a few times on properties this size, it can vary based on distances from certain amenities. That's based on access or proximity to the sewer and water and the fire department's
 Chris Wanner, Proximity over on happy hollow road and additionally comes part, but it is worth noting that comes part is on the other side of the West fork of the White River. So that's a raw distance number, not necessarily a measure of accessibility. Chris Wanner, And to your SEC. Second question about city costs.
 It's always difficult to know for certain what those details are before the development request, but that certainly was a piece of the somewhat appearing to be convoluted proposal to do a gravity main to the lift station to send it back the same direction.
 A piece of that is one, the list station does have capacity that was reviewed for the last subdivision and our utility group and our engineers are certain that that's available. And the second piece of that is
 The alternative to proposing a gravity main to the lift station is another lift station, which is not only costly and would likely be the immediate burden of a developer, but those are ultimately dedicated to the city and they don't depend on gravity, which is
 A lot of physics, obviously, there's a lot of mechanical functioning to those that can break. So by concentrating it in one lift station, the aspiration was to minimize the cost to the city. But otherwise, access to water, there's a potential to need to upgrade a water line on Dead Horse Mountain Road, and that would be at the expense of the developer. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. So to summarize the city had if this development is approved, the city has no cost except in the long term maintenance of the lift station and the infrastructure of the water pipes. Is that correct?
 Generally, yes. I mean, I'd be lying if I said there are not always random opportunities for projects to cost share if there's a city, a tangential or parallel city goal going on where the city can work with the developer, but those typically come back before the council. And it's not intended to put the burden on the city. It's to share the burden. That's something the developer wants and the city wants to go there. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Okay. Let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you in person people please line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart
 We will take Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. You can remove your mask when speaking. Then after you're done speaking, please put your mask back on. So who would like to address us from the public first? Marilyn Hefner. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you. I'm Marilyn Hefner. I own the property at 2216 South Dead Horse Mountain Road. It's the...
 25 acres that this subdivision will surround. I have several concerns. One is compatibility with surroundings. This creates an island in the midst of a lot of residential agricultural property. And the second thing is, is this justified? And the staff found that it was not necessary to rezone it.
 to accommodate development in the area. There is an increase in the traffic that 168 units would create. The sliver of land that they own on the south side of my property with the last development wasn't wide enough to accommodate
 the rules and regulations that the Planning Commission asked them to submit. So I can't understand why an increase in that density would make that any more available to
 It will increase the load on public services. I can't see how one pub or sandwich shop is going to accommodate at least 236 people. And the city council has consistently denied rezoning to commercial that area of Stonebridge Roads and Huntsville Road, which would accommodate a whole lot of a new subdivision.
 This is this new, I have a concern about drainage going across my property. In these last rains, I've been out there and seen water streaming across my front yard. And I know that additional development on the north side will also do that. And so I would ask that you not approve this PCD zoning request. Thank you. Okay.
 okay thank you who else would like to address us jason teague go ahead yeah this is jason teague i'm at 2492 south dead horse mountain road um i would like to bring up again as it's been brought up before the two and a half units per acre um i just
 We feel that it's so much more suitable for the area. I don't disagree with Mr. Rouse on diversity, but I've lived here for over 40 years, pretty much my whole life, and that would not be the area, just in my opinion. To put something like that, I think there's several areas better suited.
 So one of my complaints last meeting was never been approached by the developer. That did happen. We did have a meeting, but there was a family issue on the developer side, so he was not there. So we just met with Kraft and Tull representatives, and
 And that's where I learned that they plan on using my property, the easement across my property to put their water line. And they did. I'll give them that. They did ask what concerns we have or, you know, what would I think they use the word palatable in our opinion to put this through and
 They did ask those questions, but in the end, ultimately, I felt like we were just kind of getting blown off. So either way, I agree. I would like for you all to deny this request. Thank you. Thank you. Kyle Smith. Go ahead, Kyle. Thank you, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Delft Drive. This isn't a great development. It's sprawl.
 um but we're in a market that's desperate for new housing and this is considerably better sprawl than we usually get i think as long as y'all are committed to to continuing to to support sprawling housing densities we might as well do it like this uh at least until we realize there are better solutions uh you know we need housing and you'll often hear about the need to keep low density housing in that mix so i think
 this is your opportunity to do exactly that without sending it all the way out to elkins where we'll still get all the traffic and none of the residential benefits thank you thank you who else would like to address this david randall go ahead good evening mayor jordan and council my name is david randall i own a property at 29 22 south dead house horse mountain road my property is the south boundary along the south boundary of the golf course
 What attracted me to this area when I bought it in 2018 was its proximity to the golf course, to downtown and the relatively low density of the area. Well, when I was assessing this property for an investment, one of the things I relied on was the bill of assurance that limited the development to two and a half houses per acre. And while I am not against development,
 It's my position that a high density development would adversely affect my property value and be in violation of the bill of assurance that was in place currently.
 I think that high density project lacks compatibility with the greater area along Dayhawk Horse Mountain Road as well as the Stonebridge area, Stonebridge Golf Course area. So as a stakeholder in the area, I appreciate you listening to my viewpoint and hope you will reject this proposal. Who else? Thank you.
 No other Zoom participants, Mayor, but in the room we have Robert Rhodes. Okay. All right. Please give us your name and address. My name is Robert Rhodes with the law firm of Hall Estill, and thank you for letting me speak. You have five minutes, Robert. Thank you. I won't need that much. My ultimate request is for you all to leave this on the second reading.
 And the reason is that if you remember in my letter that I wrote to you all two weeks ago, besides the 10 concerns that I addressed, I also indicated that we would like to meet with the developer and see if we can work out some of these concerns.
 And as you heard from, I believe, Mr. T, that meeting did take place, except the developer wasn't there. Well, I understand if there's an illness and you have to deal with that. I totally understand that. We could have deferred the meeting, but instead we showed up and were told that he wasn't going to be there when we walked into the room, met with his representative engineers,
 kick some things around. He was going to get back with Mr. Rouse and see if we could, if there could be some meeting of the minds. All we got back within, I don't know, eight hours was an email saying, no, we're going to proceed on. Not even a, you know, there were several things that were discussed. There were several things in my letter that I had
 that they could have said, yeah, certainly we can agree to that at least. I know tonight they did say they'd change the name. Well, that's sort of a foregone conclusion. They can't use our names. I mean, I understand that. So we really haven't,
 had a true meeting with the developer. And I know in the past I've myself have done this when I was on council. I know I've seen other council members. I've encouraged applicants to have a true, you know, good faith, legitimate meeting with developers. I'm sorry, with neighbors that are concerned.
 And I'm speaking on behalf of some of the folks that spoke through Zoom and the golf course as well. We would like to have a meaningful meeting and see if we can work through some things, which I think ultimately makes council's job a little bit easier if you have some agreement. And so anyway, so that is my desire. And...
 I believe we have our golf course manager is wanting to speak as well. I can tell you that if indeed this is left on the second reading and you do put it up for a vote two weeks from now, then I certainly will have a good bit more that I probably will discuss, but I think it's premature not knowing what kind of give and take I might be able to get from the developer.
 and I would entertain any questions as well at any time. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us from the public? Hello, my name is Taylor Johnson, 1834 South River Meadows. I'm the general manager at Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club. I'm sure you guys remember from the last meeting. I've been there for eight years now.
 There were some expressed concerns that we talked about previously. The investment that we put into the course, we have concerns for what this might do to
 Obviously the compatibility issues that have been brought up multiple times by some guys on Zoom and obviously just recently. And also the impact on the golf courses would have. The easements that we're talking about, they do come across the golf course. There will be construction, there will be a lack of, it will devalue the round having to play around construction or partially closed golf course.
 As they've already kind of hit on we have asked to meet with the developer. We were fortunate to meet with Mr. Bridges and Henley through Craft and Toll. I feel like we had a pretty good conversation but again, the response was basically an unwillingness to meet with us or consider compromise or maybe some variances that we could agree upon. You know issues that that we wanted addressed were the compatibility issues and
 I don't know of any other stub outs onto the golf course anywhere else in the developments. I don't know of any other development project that is similar to this that's touching the golf course.
 So the density concerns obviously, we were obviously under the impression of the bill of assurance at two and a half units per acre. So I guess in our estimation the concerns were not really resolved or even considered, which is a little bit disheartening. We would like a little bit more neighborly approach and we would still like to meet with
 So obviously we can be essential to each other being neighbors. So we would encourage that conversation and obviously we would encourage you to not move forward with it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address from the public?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading kit Mayor we do have a housekeeping measure Jonathan Kurth has presented a corrected exhibit a and the City Council needs to make a motion to Accept that as the new exhibit a and replace the old one which had a minor Problem with it so that that needs to be done probably before anything else. Okay, so moved. I
 Second. I have a motion and a second to amend to Jonathan's. The new exhibit A. The new exhibit A. All right. Any discussion on that from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, so now what discussion do we have from the council on the amended ordinance? Yeah, I'm not 100% sure how I'm going to vote on this, but it looks like hopefully we're not voting tonight.
 There's still some questions left that I hope we can get answered. Some of them really aren't in our jurisdiction, but I still hope that they're answered before we have to vote. I've got a couple comments. One, this is low density, whether we go with the original bill of assurance or what we're looking at below four acres is pretty low.
 And we need houses desperately. You know, I represent Ward 3, which is in northeast Fayetteville. But the other day I looked and the median house price was $550,000. There are people that are getting kicked out of Fayetteville because they have another kid and they need a house with another bedroom. And they can't even buy in the city they grew up in. So we've got to build houses now. Yeah.
 Don't want them this far out. Hopefully we can improve more infill But I would rather it be here than Elkins or Perry Grove or you know even further out So I I think we're looking at low density. Hopefully we can get some of these questions answered
 I'm glad that this has mixed densities. Hopefully we see a lot more of that. I appreciate the developer going through the PCD so we can actually see what we're looking at. And then so we can actually talk about those particulars. I hope we do that tonight and get some of those answered for the people that live around there over the next two weeks. Thank you. Okay. What other discussion do we have?
 So that's your award, right? Okay. Any other thoughts? So do you all want to hold it here for two weeks? Yes. Sounds good. Thanks. I did have one point I missed. Sure. If we're wanting to save a golf course,
 putting 200 more houses around it, 200 more neighbors that want to also save that golf course, that's probably a good way to look at it because we've had development proposals where they actually wanted to start eating away at the golf course. This from what I can see doesn't eat any of it. It adds more neighbors that would
 In four or six years when somebody wants to take out the golf course and add houses there. They're gonna be here fighting So if you want to save the golf course Putting more houses around it might actually be a way to save them. Okay, I think just I'd really love to see some of these meetings would come more to fruition or maybe some more compromise and that would be that would be much appreciated and since people are willing to
 to set up the meetings, that'd be great to kind of get to for a little bit further progress. Anybody else? Anything? So unless there's somebody that's in objection, we will leave it on this reading for two weeks. Okay. All right. Thank you all. All right. Moving along to new business. Number one, a resolution to affirm the City of Federal's commitment to diversity, inclusion, and protection for transgender citizens, residents, and visitors. This is something Kit and I have brought forward.
 forward to the council And I want to thank him for doing that and I'm sure kit you will I think my position was relatively clear in the Sunday paper so This was something that I've had concerns about when I saw the transgender laws that was being passed So we did speak against those we sent letters. I mean Susan can tell you how much we Tried to let that happen, but it did so I
 We made our voice heard, and we are bringing a resolution forward to you where we can all make our voice heard as a city. So, Kent, I'm going to – I'll have some closing remarks, so, Kent, I'm going to turn it over to you. You might want to read the resolution or – Well, I don't know if I need to read it all, but I will say that the reason I started writing this after talking with the mayor was to give the city council the right to –
 show your commitment to reaffirm what you've already done many times in the past, and especially to reaffirm what our citizens did in 2015 when they voted basically against discrimination against our transgender citizens.
 I know that some of the legislatures have said they weren't doing anything that was discriminatory But I think if you ask the transgender community, they might have a different opinion about that and so I thought that we probably should allow the City Council to to take a look at this and see if they want to make a statement about how Fayetteville really is a welcoming and and and non discriminatory city and
 think that what I said there or what the the action sections are that the City Council affirms the City Council and the city of Fayetteville's commitment to diversity and inclusion for all persons especially including our transgender neighbors and visitors and with that I'll just leave it up to the City Council and you mayor okay I have had
 Councilmember Scroggins and Gutierrez asked to sign on to this as well and we have made a place for them and I want to thank them for that and Vance and Kidd, of course, your co-sponsoring And any other council member that would like to sign on we'll make sure that we have a place for you as well So anyway, I just want to get the thoughts on the council on what y'all are thinking And then we'll open it up for public comment and then we're gonna vote. Mayor, I have a comment. I
 I would like to also sign on as a co-sponsor. I think diversity inclusion is foremost and favorable in keeping our healthy culture and our welcoming stance to all people. So I appreciate you for taking the leadership and the charge in drafting this resolution. Thank you so much. Very welcome. Thank you for signing on.
 Who else? I also would like to sign on. I think that we do have a heritage here in Fayetteville that is welcoming, and we want to enhance that reputation that we have and preserve it. So certainly I'm supporting this, and I would also like to be a co-sponsor. Thank you, Mark. Mayor Jordan? Yes. I would like to be a co-sponsor as well. Okay. And...
 Fayetteville has been voted one of the best places to live in the country. Fayetteville continues to grow, and a large part of that is contributed to our inclusive and equitable nature. So I appreciate what both you and Kit have done as it relates to affirming what the voters requested in 2015, and I am happy.
 Without reservation, I fully, fully, fully support this revolution. Thank you, DeAndre. Anything else from the council? You could also put me on as a co-sponsor, too. We'll put you on there, too, Sarah. Thank you. Why don't we just put everybody on there, I guess. I really do support this. I think...
 I just can't believe that we're having to do this, honestly, because I think it's such an important part of who we are as Fayetteville. We're an accepting city, and we encourage diversity, and we always have. So I'm in full support of it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 there jordan i have a clarifying question yes is this in relation to the safe act and the medical ethics and diversity act it was kitchen yes it is that's part of the the one where they um refuse treatment to transgender okay if it's okay can i read a brief statement sure okay
 I agree with everything that is stated in this resolution, which is why I will be supporting it tonight. However, I'm not willing to rebuke the recently passed state laws. I believe that we can simultaneously support inclusion and common sense. I'm going to stay in my lane of healthcare and address the Arkansas Save Adolescents from Experimentation Act and the Medical Ethics and Diversity Act. With respect to the SAVE Act, I support the prohibition of gender transition procedures for minors.
 Deeply embedded in our jurisprudence is the notion of protecting children. Minors are unable to purchase alcohol or tobacco, gamble, and they aren't considered to have the full legal capacity of an adult, so they aren't able to vote, own property, sue or be sued, or in many cases consent to medical treatment. Why don't we allow children to participate in these activities as a society? Because we're protecting children who aren't considered capable of handling the same information as mature adults and who cannot yet provide necessary informed consent.
 If we discriminate based on age for any of these factors, why would that same logic not apply to the experimental, oftentimes irreversible treatment of gender dysphoria? I am not at all questioning the rights to such treatment for individuals over the age of 18. I'm simply stating that there's a difference between a 13-year-old requesting gender transition procedures and, say, a 19-year-old making the decision for themselves.
 Regarding the Medical Ethics and Diversity Act, I support the healthcare professional's right to refuse treatment based on religious or moral objection. I believe we can simultaneously support civil rights and religious freedom. And as long as treatment is available from alternative providers, then the conscientious objections of a single practitioner should not be accorded less merit than that of a
 with that said i will be voting for this resolution because i believe every word i too believe that fayetteville should be a welcoming accepting and safe community for every group and individual thank you thank you any other comments from council okay let's take some public comments everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments in three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person,
 line up outside the chambers, well, those of you that are already here, and please stay six feet apart. Zoom comments will be taken first, which will give people time to line up. So you can remove your mask when speaking and then put your mask back on once you're done speaking. So who would like to address us first? Bob Stafford. Okay, go ahead. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Yes, Robert Stafford, 527 South Sherman Avenue. Okay.
 I really want to thank Kit Williams for getting this together and bringing this forward and for you as well, Mayor. As a husband of a trans woman, I can tell you that the 2021 Legislature Session of the state legislature has been difficult. It's brought a lot of heartache, anger, and fear into our house. I mean, this isn't just at my doorstep.
 This is in my living room. This is at my dining table. This is in my bedroom. And so I appreciate Fayetteville doing this and showing us their support. I can tell you honestly, I've had to consider if some of these laws had passed, do I need to say goodbye to my family and friends? Do I need to move my business? Do I need to sell my house? Because my wife's safety and well-being has to be my first thought. And...
 I've had friends call me crying. This is real and this is big. I'm sure my wife will comment shortly and talk about the economic impact and why you need to do this for economic reasons and all those sensible things. But for me, this is an emotional thing. The trans community, I can tell you, feels under attack. I'm on the board of a local trans rights organization.
 People are fearful. They feel under attack. They don't feel welcome. So so this is just so important I'm I'm so happy and to see so many of you Jump on as co-signers It just thank you so much what you're doing is important and I'm grateful and I hope the Council passes this and I'm sure you will from what I've heard. Thank you. Thank you address Kyle Smith
 Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. As co-author and campaign chairman supporting our 2015 non-discrimination ordinance, I want to thank you all from the bottom of my heart for reaffirming your commitment to what our voters declared are our fable values. It's really unfortunate that our Arkansas legislature doesn't honor local communities and their powers of self-determination.
 This was the first of many issues where I became aware of our legislature's hostility towards Fayetteville in general, and really the principles of local control generally.
 I feel like somebody needs to take an opportunity now to thank our city's legislative delegation for fighting to remind Arkansas and the world that Fayetteville is a place that welcomes everyone. They have spent months in Little Rock doing their best to fight the kinds of discrimination
 I appreciate the commitment of the committee and the committee's commitment to the discriminatory ordinances or state laws, discriminatory state laws that you all are speaking out against here. And they have done that even when the odds were clearly not in their favor.
 We know that what's right is not always what's easy. So it means the world to have them and you all here tonight reminding everybody not just that Fayetteville welcomes everyone but that Fayetteville is a community that is committed to making sure that it's possible for everyone to thrive here. We've got a lot running against us in that department and I think we're determined to keep that hope alive. So thank you all. I really appreciate your support on this. Thank you, Kyle.
 Evelyn Rios Stafford. Go ahead, Evelyn. Yes, thank you. My name is Evelyn Rios Stafford. I live at 527 Stoth Sherman, and I'm also a Justice of the Peace for District 12 here in Washington County, which covers downtown and southeast Fayetteville. As many of you know, I also happen to be the first openly trans person ever elected to office in the state of Arkansas.
 And I wanted to thank City Attorney Kit Williams and you Mayor Jordan and all the members of City Council who have signed on to this very important resolution. As some of you may know, I met with Governor Asa Hutchinson last month before his decision to veto one of these bills. I brought along an 18 year old trans woman from Little Rock who went through gender transition in high school
 And, you know, again, I wanted to thank the governor for taking the time to listen to the stories of real living, breathing trans people, because in all of this, these debates that have happened this year over these issues, which I see as a completely manufactured controversy, the actual voices of trans people have really been sidelined and overlooked in this.
 And, you know, because the governor took the time to actually listen to real stories, that led him in part to issue his veto. Since that veto, it was eventually overturned, but I've been hearing heartbreaking stories from families of trans youth in our state and here in our local community, here in Fayetteville.
 I've heard from parents who are angry, who are hurt, who are disgusted, who are fearful.
 And they hear the people who have been pushing these bills have been implying that these parents are negligent in some way, suggesting that they're as bad as parents who give their kids drugs and alcohol or tobacco or gamble. It is a completely false comparison. None of those things are health care. A doctor will never write a prescription to drink alcohol or gamble. In fact, some of the treatments now banned
 in our state are recommended by mainstream organizations like the American Medical Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics. I've heard from trans youth. They're not trying to win scholarships or become elite athletes. They're just trying to fit in and play soccer with their friends. There's no reason for laws like this to apply to kindergartners. And so I want to tell you that I think this ordinance is
 is an important statement and sends an important message to trans people, their families, that their contributions to the fabric of the state are valued, and that everyone is welcome in Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Jared Wolfe. Go ahead. Hello. My name is Jared Wolfe. I'm at 2394 West Jane Circle Drive. I am the current president of the Transgender Equality Network, and that is a nonprofit organization based here in Northwest Arkansas.
 The recent legislation attention has made it abundantly clear that Arkansas is not of one mind regarding the equal status of transgender people. These pieces of legislation have created a broad legislative landscape of fear and rejection. So the ongoing statements of affirmation that the city of Fayetteville does continue to actively work to include transgender people and create a place of welcome does give many of us hope.
 I would like to thank everybody that is backing this piece of legislation.
 there's a lot of people that have contacted me and expressed their worries. I had a lot of worries that they were going to have to move out of state. There was many people, especially those with children, were trying to figure out how they were going to suddenly get up and move just so that their children could have the same care as any other cis child. So I'm
 TEN is forever grateful that Fayetteville is still standing by its minorities, especially the trans community. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. There are no more on Zoom, Mayor. Who would like to address this in the public tonight that's here? No one. Okay. I will bring it back to the council. I do actually have something I would like to say. Okay.
 since we brought it up. So I'm a math instructor at the U of A. I've taught Democrats, Republicans, I've taught all races, genders, sexual orientations, and even trans individuals. And I believe that if anyone were to refuse to teach somebody based on one of the above things, they shouldn't be a teacher. And I also feel the same way about the medical community. Okay.
 um just a quick quick comments as well you know for me the this legislative legislative session has been quite traumatizing um and the ordinance you know that we're looking at today i'm sorry resolution this rude resolution that we're looking at today for me is not only in rebuke of the state laws because there's a time where we need to
 call it out but it also is to send a positive message to our trans community members just to kind of remind you that for Fayetteville things haven't changed for us and when laws are wrong we need to stand against that so that's why I'm supporting it we'll support it and continue to support it okay this is a resolution we need a motion in the second to pass I move to approve the resolution
 Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have? What other final comments do we have in the council before we vote? Okay, before we vote I would like to make a final statement. You know in 2014, which went on into 2015 before we finally passed the Civil Rights Ordinance, and I want to thank a couple of
 one former council member and one that's here. I want to thank council member Petty for bringing the original ordinance forward. I want to thank council member Adele LeGray for bringing the second one that we passed. I want to thank them for their work on this in the past. There was a lot of things that I saw in the state legislature I did not agree with.
 I use and we made our voice heard here and we lobbied against a few things. I want to talk about a couple of three things. There is this issue tonight. I also have watched the state legislature and we've got some great stellar local legislators right here in this city. I won't say that to start with but I watched state legislature pass laws that attacked our environmental protection.
 and laws that prohibit us from passing ordinances that will protect the health and safety of our people. They've passed laws that discriminates against a class of people and basically have attacked our ability to locally control our city. I think that's wrong. I believe these are the wrong laws in the wrong place and I think they send the wrong message. But the resolutions you have before you tonight is the right voice in the right place at the right time.
 You know, there's something I've always strongly believed. You see, you don't always have to stand tall, but you do need to stand up and let your voice be heard and to hear from those that other folks don't want to hear from and speak for those that can't speak for themselves and protect those that need to be protected. And you know, you don't win every fight. We didn't win every fight in this legislative session, but I told Susan in the moments when things were seemed a little dark and a little depressing, I said, you know, you don't win every fight.
 But if you're on the right side, you need to fight every fight. And that's what we're doing with this resolution. We're standing up tonight for what is right. So City Council, and I see that you all, many of you, sponsored this, and I want to thank you for that. So City Council, I want to thank you for letting your voice and your position be heard tonight, and let us be judged by history tomorrow. Thank you all. Kara, would you please call the roll?
 Terry, you call the roll. Ken, do you have any final comments you want to make? I'm sorry, Terry, but you can't hold it. I think you said it all, Mayor. I've known you for 20 years plus, and you've always been for equality and welcoming, and that's one reason I like working with you. Thank you, Ken. Now, Terry, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes.
 Scroggins yes thanks yes thank you council okay number two a resolution to provide public notice that the city council is considering the sale to the non-profit peace at home family shelter incorporated of about four acres of land which adjoins its current shelter
 Susan Norton has been working real hard on this. Kent Williams also has been working real hard on this. I know the Peace at Home folks have been working real hard. And I think we've got a good presentation for you tonight. And Susan, you want to take it from there?
 Sure Mayor, thank you. As the Mayor indicated, it's a resolution to provide public notice. So this is the step one in our process, the resolution to provide public notice that the Council is considering the sale of land adjacent to the Peace at Home Family Shelter. And then after this resolution, then the steps would be that Peace at Home will work with our planning division and continue to put forward a plan.
 that they'll bring back to you in the future. But I wanted to go ahead and let you all know that of course the city has long supported and appreciated the services of Peace at Home Family Shelter for providing the vital accommodations for victims of family violence and domestic abuse.
 and they're requesting at this time that the City Council approve the sale of adjacent land so that they'll be able to expand their facility to accommodate more patrons and to expand the current site that has been open for 12 years.
 Tonight with us are Theresa Mills, the CEO of Peace at Home, and Teddy Cardwell, member of the board and past board chairman, who'd like to speak to you all tonight. Theresa? Okay. Theresa, Teddy, you all have ten minutes. That's to get. Well, thank you. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and council.
 Thank you Susan for that great introduction. You took on all my thunder, all I was going to say. I could just rap. But for those of you who are not familiar with Peace at Home Family Shelter, we have provided services in Northwest Arkansas since the early 1970s. We provide emergency safe shelter, crisis intervention, and supportive services for victims of domestic violence and their children so that they can find peace in their own home.
 which I would argue is a basic right that everyone in our community should have. In 2005, we were fortunate to receive a grant from the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation
 foundation to be able to build a new emergency safe shelter from the ground up. And through that process, working with Kit Williams, we were able to purchase 1.5 acres from the city of Fayetteville for that project with which our shelter currently sits.
 We were able to move into that facility in 2008 and what a transformation our program has had since being in that space. That space allowed us to not only double but triple the number of families that we are able to serve every single year. One of and four of whom is a Fayetteville resident.
 Since we've been in that space, we've added legal services, a transitional housing program, counseling services, really great children's programming, and even found a way for pets to be able to be in our shelter with their families, which is so important, because pets that are left behind often become targets of violence for domestic partners. But as you all are certainly aware,
 Since 2008, there's been a lot of growth in Northwest Arkansas, and we are absolutely starting to feel that pinch at the shelter. We operate on a waiting list for our emergency shelter every single day.
 We have a challenging office space situation. I have staff that are tripled and quadrupled up in a space that's designed for one person. I myself now reside in a converted closet. It's fantastic. We don't have space for many of the programs that we see as being essential for our future.
 Due to that space pinch that we're now experiencing, the board of directors is in the beginning stages of a capital expansion. And that capital expansion would bring with it the ability to double our current emergency shelter
 It would add green space and a trail for families to have some outside accommodations. It would add a pet sanctuary for us to be able to bring more animals into our shelter and be able to say yes more often to families. I think that's so essential when survivors make that call that we are able to say yes and accommodate them in the moment.
 but in order to do that we need additional land and so what we are requesting is the ability to purchase four additional acres of land from the city of Fayetteville. This land currently adjoins our property and through that process we will be able to provide even more robust services to survivors of domestic violence and their children.
 I don't want to take up too much time, but I do want to share a little bit about what would be the very first project in this expansion, in this new land. And in order to do that, I'd like to invite Teddy Cardwell to share about the future Candy Clark Pet Sanctuary. Teddy Cardwell Teresa is a lot taller than I am, so I have to move this. Thank you all.
 I'm Teddy Cardwell and Candy Clark was my wife for 23 years. Now most of you who know Candy know that she cared about people and animals, mostly animals. Anyway, she was the first Executive Director of the Humane Society of the Ozarks here in Fayetteville and she did multiple things for animals through the years.
 We were founders of the Animal League of Northwest Arkansas, which operates within Fayetteville. But she started researching what the effect of having pets in a domestic violence shelter did for the victims of domestic violence. So once she'd completed the research, she started on Teresa every time she'd see her.
 When are you going to build that effing shelter? Those of you who know Candy, you know she had no filter. So anyway, when I joined the board in 2014, I would like to tell you that from 2014 until 2021, there's less of a need for domestic violence shelters. But unfortunately, I can't tell you that. I'd be lying. So in order to...
 expand the Peace at Home shelter. We need this property. And in order to allow people to come out of domestic violence situations and not worry about leaving their animals in those situations, we need to build the Candy Clark Peace at Home Memorial Shelter. So while we're here tonight to ask you all this, we need your help to expand. We need your help to build the effin' shelter.
 And I would appreciate your help on that. Thank you. Thank you, too. So, Mayor, I'm sure they would be able to answer any questions. Yes. And, again, we'll have another presentation when the designs are ready. What questions do we have in the council for any of us? I've got a logistics question. Whenever we sell land, do we ever keep, like, a right of first refusal to sell it back to the city? Or how does that work?
 We have, I don't think we have done that in the past. We didn't do it with Peace at Home the first time. Obviously, we're interested in helping them as much as possible, and sometimes it's not a good idea to put strings around something like that. It might hurt their fundraising. So that's why in the past we haven't done that. Okay, thank you. Anything else from the council? Okay, well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person,
 please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart we will take zoom comments first to give people time to line up you can remove your mask when speaking and please put it back on when you are finished do we have any anyone from zoom we don't okay we will take comments from everyone that's in here or outside of here everybody has five minute duration there is no one else outside
 anyone from the public in here wish to say anything okay i think we've said it all uh i'm gonna bring it back to the council uh this is a resolution move to approve the resolution second of the motion is second to pass the resolution what final comments do we have from the city council
 One quick comment, just want to say I think it's a great idea and I'd love to see that up in Shelterville. And so hope this will pass with all flying colors. Anybody else? I just want to take a moment to thank the Peace and Home Family Shelter. Y'all do some fantastic. You take care of people. You give people some hope. A lot of folks don't think they're going to make it, but you do that.
 and you do that in such a tremendous way and it's such an honoring and candy was a dear friend of mine and i still miss her but you know what this is one of the ways when this shelter is built and the animal shelter is built well you know what candy will still be there and she'll continue on with all of us and so thank you all for everything you do and i certainly
 I encourage the council to pass the resolution. We have a motion and a second. Kerrivich, please call the vote. Teric? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Thank you all. Thank you, council. You know, I don't know about everybody else, it's been a pretty good evening so far. It's been great, Mary.
 All right, well let's move on to number three. An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with SRD Builders LLC for the extension of a four-inch water line on West Lawson Street with a refund in the amount not to exceed $20,484.88 to be paid by the City of Federal and to approve project contingency in the amount of $2,048. Kip?
 Whereas SRD Builders LLC is developing two townhomes in the place of a single-family residence at 940 West Lawson Street, and whereas the current 1.5-inch water pipe that serves the property is not large enough to accommodate the project, and this development will require approximately 200 linear feet of 4-inch water line to reach the project site.
 And whereas the extension of a 4-inch main in this area will replace the aging and brittle segment of the galvanized water line that is 50 years old, will allow a portion of the customers on both sides of Lawson Avenue to connect to a larger pipe, will provide a water connection that could be extended if development occurs to the east, and will remove a section of lead pipe from the City's water distribution system, which is a requirement of the new lead and copper rule,
 Whereas the City's portion of the cost to extend the 4-inch pipe to the project site is approximately 46% with the developer paying 54% of the cost of the extension. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with SRD Builders LLC for the extension of a four-inch line along West Lawson Street with a refund in the amount not to exceed $20,484.88
 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $2,048.49 Okay, Tim Thank you mayor
 As Kit just said, SRD Builders LLC is developing two lot splits along West Lawson. One single family home is being removed for the addition of two townhomes and the current one and a half inch galvanized pipe is not large enough to accommodate this project. So the development does require 200 linear feet of four inch PVC water pipe to reach the project.
 The split is 46 city, 54% developer, with the developer paying 100% of the cost for the private service connections. Three quotes were received with a low bid for M&M Excavating, excluding the private sewer lines to be $37,419.76. And the engineering costs are $3,550.
 The city would reimburse up to $20,484.88 for the completed project, and the builder would be responsible for $24,065.12. The cost share pays for one half of the construction costs and one half of the engineering costs, and it does not provide anything for the installation of the private sewer lines.
 As Kit said, this cost share proposal accomplishes four things. It replaces the aging galvanized water line. It allows a portion of the customers on both sides of Lawson to connect to a larger pipe, which will give them more volume at their meter.
 It does provide a water connection that could be extended if development occurs to the east of Lawson, and it removes a section of lead pipe from the city's water distribution system, which is a requirement of the impending revisions of the lead and copper rule that will be passed this year.
 Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing account within the water and sewer fund. And this item was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on April 13th with a 4-0 vote to forward to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. Do you have any answer to any questions? Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everyone has one turn to speak. You have five minute duration, both in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Name and address, federal residence first, press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you.
 in-person lineup outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be heard first to give people time to line up. You can remove your mask when speaking, and then please put your mask back on when you're done. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Okay. Okay.
 An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with SRD Builders LLC for the extension of a four-inch water line on West Lawson Street with a refund in an amount not to exceed $20,484.88 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,048. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading.
 Karen would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 i'll go ahead and we got seven votes in order to weigh formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with srd builders llc for the extension of a four inch water line on west lawson street with a refund in an amount not to exceed twenty thousand four hundred and eighty four dollars and eighty eight cents to be paid by the city of fayetteville and to prove the project contingency in the amount of two thousand forty eight dollars okay what final comments do you have in the council okay
 karen would you please call the rope turk yes erksberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggins yes fudge yes i just want to clarify on all three of these
 it's been an eight to zero vote okay i i'm listening on zoom and in council chambers i can hear council member bunch okay thank you care very much okay that passed we go on to number four correct yes okay thank you and order history's on that
 to resume that property described rezoning petition rzn 21-032 located at 4023 west weddington drive from pro for approximately 1.97 acres from c1 neighborhood commercial cs community services kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan? Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in West Fayetteville. It includes two parcels just south of Weddington's intersection with Ruple, just south of the Walgreens detention pond located up southwest of Weddington and Ruple and just north of the fire station. Also just south of that intersection, the property is largely undeveloped. It has several mature trees on it and there is a single family home towards the rear portion of it.
 David Dismukes, And of those two parcels I noted a moment ago, the Western parcels, the one on which the single family homes currently sits.
 The surrounding zoning in the area is a patchwork of various things. There are several non-residential, more intense zoning districts adjacent to Weddington Drive. CES mixed zoning districts like that, community services further north, and this property and those that immediately to the north and northeast, there's a C1 neighborhood commercial.
 before segue to the south and southwest to institutional zoning for the fire station and some residential zonings for the attached and detached single family and multi-family homes located there. The request before the council tonight is to rezone this existing property from C1 neighborhood commercial to CS community services.
 In considering the proposal, staff evaluated it in terms of Fayetteville's long-range planning documents from City Plan 2040 and the future land use map to the infill matrix and growth concept map. Staff did find the request to be generally consistent with all of those documents located as close as it is to Weddington. It's perhaps not surprising that it does have access to quite a few amenities and quite a bit of infrastructure.
 Additionally, it is located within the Weddington corridor plan, which was envisioned to include a diversified mix of uses clustered around intersections with an emphasis on the intersection of Weddington and Ruppel in particular. You can see the existing property here as it relates to Weddington.
 that plan's illustrative plan. And it is worth noting, I realize this document does show the single family home remaining on the property. I think it was council member Petty noted at the last meeting in the context of the Fayette Junction plan, these illustrative plans are not necessarily intended to be gospel or written stone, what can and should be built there, but it does try to frame those documents in terms of the existing land uses
 similar to long range plan finding staff did find the request to be compatible and complimentary of existing surrounding land uses. In addition to the Walgreens and fire station I've already mentioned to the north and south, there are indeed a variety of residential uses in the area that can be found nearby.
 Some of the other issues that staff did find when considering the requests are the presence of hydric soils on the site. And then the project's unusual or the property's unusual relationship with existing and proposed zoning districts, taking the hydric soils first.
 As with many properties ranging all the way from Sane to the east, to Royals to the west, and Wedding to the north, and MLK to the south, this site does include underlying hydric soils. While these are not in and of themselves an issue, they can indicate some sensitive ecological areas.
 While staff will certainly assess this further with any developments submittal that's forthcoming, it is worth noting that the property is about 2,000 feet away from the nearest floodplain or protected stream. And when you take hydric soils and floodplain, those together are usually indicative of things like wetlands. That's not to say this property won't have something like that on there, but it suggests that it's unlikely.
 As far as the non-conforming use versus lot aspect of the project, the property is unusual in that it is currently a non-conforming use. It's a single-family home used as such in a zoning district that only allows commercial uses.
 So it doesn't conform with existing zoning in that regard. So, but the CS zoning would make it a conforming use, but the unusual parcel layout with one parcel, not having access to any street would make the Western most lot on which the house sits non-conforming. I didn't want to point that out because it is unusual. But, and while this would sometimes give staff pause when reviewing a project,
 The intent to develop the property puts us at ease with the issue. Additionally, the home does have legal access protected through to Weddington through the Walgreens parking lot. So all told, staff recommends approval and the commission similarly unanimously concurred with staff's recommendation.
 It is worth noting that originally the applicant brought forward a request for just that western parcel to rezone it from C1 to Riu residential intermediate urban The Planning Commission felt a more holistic approach to the site should be taken and tabled the item to give the applicant an opportunity to consider that They came back on April 12th Proposing to rezone the entirety of the site to CS community services, which is the request before the council tonight
 And that said, we've not received any public comment to date, and I'm happy to take any questions from the council. Thank you. Do you have an applicant on this one? Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor. I believe we have Jeff Bates here. I think he's in attendance online for this item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Mr. Bates, hands is raised. Thank you.
 This is Jeff Bates. We're just excited to move forward with this project. We're aware of some of the issues he's spoken about and we'll deal with those during the large scale process. We think we did what the city was wanting and we worked pretty closely with staff on this one. We have to answer any questions about our future development if you have any. Okay.
 uh do we have any questions from the council for the staff or the applicant i've got a question for staff um i see that you said you're in support of this uh would you still be in support of it if you knew that this was all going to be single family residents because i think that's what's going to happen i'm sorry you're asking if if i knew that it was going to be single family despite it being zoned cs would i support the request yes
 Yes, I would. I think regardless of what the ultimate development plans are, I think it's important to set the stage with our zoning districts in the city for what we aspire to.
 I know it's anecdotal and the council should not take it to the bank, but the African does intend to develop the western half of the property with a tall attached multifamily in the eastern half with some services but Again, I know that's not necessarily worth anything if it's not in a bill of assurance or some other similar format. So to answer your question directly. Yes, staff would support CS on this, even if we knew single family was being built here. Okay.
 I'm not sure how I'm going to vote on this. I mean, I really hope that it's something other than single family. We've seen a lot of, I mean, we put a lot of money in infrastructure down River Load and it didn't turn into the density.
 So now we've got expenses that far outweigh the property taxes that are going to come in there because we didn't develop it at the level that we put the infrastructure in. So I'm not sure I'm going to vote on this. Okay, what other questions do we have in the council? Is it relevant to ask questions about this phase of Park Meadows that are more general but maybe related? Or is that improper? I don't know.
 i believe council member petty i think that's the next item on the agenda i'm sorry well matthew i really don't know if it's improper or not but if you if you have you know i think we have very broad procedural rules here and and certainly it's always made to help uh discussion go so if you're gonna want to make a some discussion about this i don't think see that's a problem no i i don't i don't have a problem with it i don't have a question this time thank you okay
 Anybody else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into a segment of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized.
 unmute so we can hear you. If you're in person, please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. We will take Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. You can remove your mask only when speaking, and then please put your mask back on when you're finished. So who would like to address us first by Zoom? Kyle Smith. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. And a lot of y'all know this is my stomping ground with lots of family living in and around the neighborhoods that this is adjacent to. I support this and I hope you will too. I think it is fair to expect residential development here as the applicant originally came forward with an RIU request on part of the parcel.
 would have supported that as well, but I Think this is a good opportunity to thank the Planning Commission and make sure they're recognized for doing a thorough job of sort of protecting the context of the area where we've still got a lot of the old Exclusionary commercial zones. I appreciate that they are looking for opportunities to
 to amend requests to take a bigger context, bigger picture look and get us some, at least enable mixed use informed based zones in the area. So this is appropriate both for the residential area that they're asking for and it's an improvement of the Rupal front zoning that would have been left otherwise. So thank you. I hope that you'll support this tonight. Who else would like to address? Thank you, Kyle.
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Could I ask the Ward 4 representatives if they have any, Theresa, this is in Ward 4, correct? Jonathan? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Thank you. Do you have any thoughts or? I would be in favor of this. Well, I mean, I'm not really putting you on the, I don't want to put you on the spot. I'm just trying to get what y'all are thinking.
 i think that cs would be appropriate for this area um i live very close um and speaking as a resident who lives nearby i would be in favor of a cs zoning okay um i really don't have any comments um on this so i i could i see um uh i'm glad that jonathan provided us a lot of history about uh this uh particular lot and um so yeah i don't have any questions
 i know that's usually not the case but tonight i'm silent so thanks okay i'm just trying to get my bearings on what y'all are thinking um okay uh any other discussion what's okay this is an ordinance it's on the first reading move suspend rules and go to second reading second right we have a motion to second go to the second reading carol would you please call the roll turn yes
 Hertzberg yes, it's here. It yes, Jones. Yes, Indian yes Yes, yes Yes, and your history zone that oops Rezone that property described a rezoning petition RZ n 21-0 3 2 located at 4023 West Weddington Drive for approximately two acres from c1 neighborhood commercial to CS community services
 move suspend rules and go to third and final reading okay second you have a motion second to go to third and final reading care would you please call the rub turn yes earthsburg yes gutierrez yes jones yes canyon yes betty yes scroggins yes butch yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-032 located at 4023 West Weddington Drive for approximately two acres from C1 neighborhood commercial to CS community services. Okay, what final comments do we have from the council? I just want to express my concern that Councilmember Scroggin expressed and we had that opportunity to add an ordinance to exclude single family from CS and
 and from the city council's uh vote that wasn't the the choice and so that's kind of where where we are now um so um i i also would hope that there wouldn't be single family here but that's that doesn't seem to be kind of where we are where we fall so um i do think that we need to get this into compliance and i'd love to see something other than single family homes there but um
 So that's not how it's going to be. So we don't know what it's going to be. Okay, so with that, I'll be done. Okay. Anybody else before we vote? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Her? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-035 located southeast of Morningside Drive and Huntsville Road for approximately .66 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located just southeast of downtown Fayetteville, just outside the eastern boundary of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan on the east side of Morningside Drive, south of where it intersects with Huntsville Road.
 It is currently undeveloped, but to I think perhaps what Councilmember Petty was asking a moment ago, it is currently still entitled under Phase 4 of the Park Meadows Master Plan. Staff has not seen any other development proposals at this time, so it's currently, again, entitled for basically single-family homes, that front Morningside Drive area.
 The existing zoning in the area is a result of a 2016 action by the City Council for the overall Parks Meadow property, which includes the land to the north to Huntsville, east to the eastern boundary and south all the way to 15th Street. This included the CS that you see on the zoning map, the NC to the south and east, and some RA residential agricultural property meandering throughout the site.
 There is a bill of assurance on the property that does require that that RA zone area be dedicated into a conservation easement. And that was part of the discussion of the original rezoning where there were some significant drainage ways through the property where the city anticipated a trail and where one will ultimately go.
 The request tonight is to rezone an additional portion to CS, community services, just northeast of Morningside Drive's intersection with Fairlane Street to kind of spatially orient you. This would match parallel the DG downtown general zoning district that's on the west side of Morningside that occurred as a part of the Walker Park neighborhood master plan.
 Staff found the request to be consistent with existing land uses in the area. CS, particularly with the recent amendment to remove some of those intense automotive uses, can serve to provide some much needed services to an area that is largely residential.
 Alternatively, if it was developed exclusively residentially, this is an area near downtown where the existing amenities and services that the city has could be well served by offering residents close proximity to them.
 When it comes to long-range plans, staff did find the request to be consistent with these. Again, this site is near downtown where additional density is appropriate. Our future land use map designates it as a city neighborhood area with associated anticipation of residential and non-residential uses.
 The infill matrix indicates several amenities and infrastructure elements that are complementary to infill, including access to water and sewer, park and trail, a transit line is in the area, and of course the fire department is located on Happy Hollow just to the east.
 With no additional issues identified, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it, recommending approval, although by a split vote, those who supported it
 I felt it was valuable to offer the potential for more services near the many homes that are going up in the area. The two that voted in opposition did not offer comments on it, and staff has not received any public comment to date. And I'm available for questions if the council has any, and I believe I have Jesse Fulcher here by Zoom who's available for the applicant. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council?
 Yes, sir. Mr. Mayor, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council, and thanks, staff, for that staff report in there. Support of our rezoning. You have 10 minutes.
 Okay, well, I don't normally talk that long, Mayor. This is a pretty straightforward one, I think. As Jonathan mentioned, I think we had two no votes from Planning Commission, but they didn't statewide, so I'm not sure how to address those. But overall support from Planning Commission and staff, this is a small 0.6-acre piece of property that's,
 zone differently than the remainder of our property north of our northern street within phase four of Park Meadows. So we've got two different zoning districts, and I think it's easier to have them under one zoning district, the CS zoning district. We're still entitled for single-family homes here, rear-loaded or alley-loaded homes. We've considered some attached product, which we couldn't do in neighborhood conservation. So it made the
 It's a need to kick consistent across the entire property and then make a determination on our final final product line up at some point On the road. That's all I have any questions. It's letting us thank you Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council for the applicant or staff? I have a question mayor. Sure Jonathan if my recollection is correct it might not be and when we I
 negotiated the last zoning action, there were a number of improvements that were negotiated, including a contribution to a fund to support the eventual construction of a traffic signal at Morningside and Huntsville and a portion of the trail on the north end of the larger track that this rezoning is a part of. So a couple questions. First question.
 Are those improvements still intended to be constructed as part of the Park Meadows phases? And the second question is, does it's rezoning affect those agreements? Because I remember a lot, I'm asking that question because I remember a lot of our discussion in particular about the trail and the signal were anchored to the number of units that were going to be constructed in this location.
 Yeah, your memory serves you correctly. When the preliminary plat came through the Planning Commission, there were some heightened street improvement recommendations from staff. The Planning Commission, I think, offered a more moderated version of that. And I think the applicant still felt aggrieved and so they appealed the approval to the city council. And a different set of street improvements were ultimately approved, including the ones that you outlined.
 Many of those are tied to specific phases of the project. I don't have it in front of me. I'm almost certain that I recall that phase four is when the traffic signal payment would come through. Mr. Fulcher recalls differently. He may be able to share that, otherwise I'd have to dig that up for you.
 to your second question as to whether this rezoning would modify or in some way affect that approval. I think that depends if the scope of the project were to change. Many of our street improvements when projects come into fail are tied specifically to the anticipated impacts or intensity of a development.
 the allowances in the CS zoning district are significantly higher than the neighborhood conservation with its single family, 10 units per acre maximum. So just the non answer I guess for you is that it certainly could result in additional street improvements if a new entitlement was proposed, but I've not seen anything yet. So I can't confidently say that it would change
 Thank you. I'm going to try and rephrase your answer just a little bit to make sure I understand. Put another way, were you saying that to the best of your recollection in phase four, you'll review development plans and that at that time is when you would process the agreement about the traffic signal and the trail? Yeah.
 The project is currently entitled to require those improvements or those assessments be made. I guess what I was offering alternatively to that is if the proposed entitlement changed to the property, say instead of building 40 single-family homes, they wanted to build 100 multifamily dwellings.
 It may necessitate reevaluating what those street improvement requirements were, whether it's a heightened assessment or making complete improvements rather than just a portion of them. Does that clarify? Yeah, it does. I think I understand. And I guess I want to ask one follow-up question to the applicant, and that's simply, Jesse, does your team still plan to proceed with the...
 No. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Matthew, I'm sorry. You froze. And you were in the middle of asking Jesse if the team planned to proceed with the .. I wonder if Jesse knows what Councilmember Petty was about to ask? I'm unsure. I don't know if he was wondering if we were going to stick with our original layout.
 Um, but but while I'm on the zoning shouldn't change any of our requirements for improvements in and contributions for traffic signals, etc. All that was tied to our preliminary flight approval, which is still valid. And so we're still required to do all those things. And I think Jonathan was saying is if we come back with a new plan that significantly.
 the city council. And I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point.
 Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person folks, please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart.
 Those of you that will be speaking by Zoom, we will take your comments first to give people time to line up. Those that are speaking in person may remove their masks only when speaking, and then please put your mask back on. So who would like to address from the public? Nobody. Okay, who would like to address in person? Okay, looks like the same. So I will bring it back to the council.
 What discussion do we want to have? I don't know what we did to make these meetings quicker, but I hope we keep doing it.
 On the last one with the rezone to CS, my concern was that we were just going to get single-family houses where the infrastructure wasn't in line. They could already do single-family houses in NC, so that clearly isn't an issue here. I hope we have higher density here. This is within, I think, the mayor's box. This is where we need to have increased density so that we can have the property taxes to pay for our infrastructure. So I'll be in support of this one.
 I'd love to have a little bit more time to reach out to my ward. I've been busy in my personal life to not be able to let people know about this agenda item. So I'd love to have the coming couple weeks to reach out to them and let them know about this. Okay. So you want to hold it right here? I'd love to hold it. Yeah.
 Mayor? Yes. If I may add to my answer to Councilmember Petty, I can confirm I'm looking at the ordinance from 2016 when the preliminary plot was appealed to council and that the assessment for the traffic signal was due with the final plot for the final phase, which would be this corner that's being proposed to rezone. So that's not been collected yet, nor was it required yet. What about the trail?
 I'm sorry, I'm not that far into it yet. It's a . If I don't get that, if I'm not able to find that quickly, I'll certainly have that to you before or by the next agenda session if it sounds like it's being left on this reading. Yeah, that'll be fine. Thank you. OK, is anyone opposed to leaving it on, I guess, would be the second reading? Everybody good? DeAndre? Yes, sir, I'm good. OK. All right. If there's not anybody opposed to that, we will leave this one on second reading. OK. Let's move along to number six.
 An ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition RZN 21-036 located at 2016 and 2024 North Fletcher Avenue and 227 North Summit Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, from RSF 4 residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 18 residential single-family, 18 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to select The zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, Jonathan I
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is just a little bit northwest of the one we were just at. It's about halfway up the slope of Sequoia. Sequoia's west slope specifically as you head east from downtown Fayetteville. It's a through lot that has access to both Fletcher Avenue to the west and Summit Avenue to the east.
 until earlier this year it was developed with three duplexes on the property all on one parcel. The one that's uphill that faced Summit Avenue was demolished earlier this year. The entirety of the site is within the hillside hilltop overlay district as you can see here in the the faint green hatching.
 This property is zoned the RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. And the applicant proposes to rezone into RSF18, which is 18 units per acre. To contextualize the request a little bit more, if you can see on the northern end of the slide here, there's a darker yellow that's indicated as RSF8. That was a rezoning that came through the council.
 somewhat recently on the northeast corner of Fletcher and Dixon. When looking at the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did find this proposal to be compatible. This is a fairly diverse area, although pretty much uniformly residential. There are a wide range of residential homes from very modest smaller homes to extremely large homes.
 Additionally, there's large amounts of attached residential housing found both along Fletcher and further west along Olive Avenue. Excuse me. Similarly, staff found the request to be complementary of the city's adopted long-range plans. This is a residential neighborhood area on our future land use map that suggests that it's appropriate for a wide range of residential uses, which...
 Although the RSF 18 zoning district is by right limited to single family dwellings, it does allow quite a bit of flexibility in what size those homes could be.
 Staff also felt that the request complements our city plan 2040 goals. We feel that this is an appropriate place for infill, given access to two streets and the close proximity to downtown and the existing near proximity to other amenities such as a grocery store southeast of Lafayette and College.
 When looking at other issues on the property, it is currently an existing non-conforming use. It is duplexes, which are not allowed under the RSF-4 zoning district. Similarly, they're not allowed under the RSF-18 zoning district.
 But the applicant has indicated that they intend to demolish the final two duplexes at some point and redevelop the overall property with smaller footprint single family homes, potentially with up to eight. It did come up at the Planning Commission meeting that to
 create eight lots in this area would be subject to platting which would assure that it's the any development with that standard would be subject to our city's tree preservation and drainage standards further it is in the hillside hilltop overlay district as i noted earlier which has a heightened street preservation canopy requirement above what what's a
 would be otherwise required. And there's also additional construction requirements to ensure that those homes don't suffer from the very common foundation issues you find throughout Fayetteville.
 With all that said, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission did forward it to the City Council. There was a divided vote and one recusal. Those that did support the request felt it was an appropriate location for more housing and that this created a more logical transition from the lower density RSF4 zoning found on a lot of Mount Sequoia and the multifamily zoning that's found further to the west to
 the two commissioners that didn't support the item had concerns about drainage and the sufficiency and felt that the existing transition was fine and that fletcher represented a reasonable place to divide those two zoning districts and their associated allowances we didn't receive a fair amount of public comments on this item before the planning commission added and since the public
 Some were in favor of the request, found that it would be a place for, an appropriate place for housing and looked forward to seeing the existing homes demolished. Those opposed did share a lot of the drainage concerns that the council heard, but they're resigning further to the north. Again, this is a fairly sloped area on the west side of Sequoia and it very much earns its designation as a hilltop, hillside overlay district.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Max Mahler is present in the council chambers as the applicant, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. I don't need 10 minutes. I won't think, at least. So first, I just want to say thank you to the city council members for your time and service. Our project is for rezoning.
 The property is currently zoned RSF4, directly bordering us on the west side of Fletcher Avenue for several blocks that is zoned RMF24, residential multifamily. We think this project will create a gradient of density between the west side of Fletcher and the east side of Summit. Until earlier this year, there had been three duplexes on the property, which have been there since the early 70s, and the property has been non-conforming to the current zoning.
 We are currently requesting RSF 18 residential single family to build eight single family homes. So our for our request we would effectively be moving from eight residents or from six residences to eight. I'd like to note that large lots with large homes dates back to the 1970s when affordable housing was intentionally discouraged. The property has great access to public resources. There's a park, Sequoia Gardens less than a block away. Those Art Natural Foods is just down the street
 and it will also be very close to the new trail which is set to be built down Mission Boulevard. We have met on-site with City Engineer Jonathan Ely to ensure that the appropriate infrastructure will be supported and will work to ensure that we maintain a good working relationship with all City staff. My brother Michael and I will be assisting my father Alex Mahler with the project. I'm a Fayetteville native and I've spoken with several of the direct neighbors who are in support of our project.
 including the immediately downhill neighbor who spoke in favor of us at the Planning Commission meeting. And we plan to be a good neighbor throughout the process. I'm more than happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the Council for the applicant or the staff?
 I did have a quick question. You said there was RMF 24 just right nearby. I was looking and I didn't really see that diversity. Jonathan, can you help us see that? Certainly. Allow me to pull up a zoning map here and give you just a moment. I know there's a lot of variety in there, but it looked pretty...
 Hopefully you can see my map here. The property in question is in blue highlight here with Fletcher acting as largely the dividing line between properties, majority zone, the RSF4 to the west and north, excuse me, the east and northeast and segueing or transitioning to RMF24 on the other side of Fletcher as it segues into some downtown zoning districts closer to the square.
 Okay, I was not noticing that all of the brown is RMF 24. Thank you. You know, actually, it's not on our map now that I look at it. So that's a different map than I have on the last. So I think that last page of the packet doesn't have the RMF 24. I can follow up with you on that if your map is the most latest and greatest map.
 yeah thank you for letting me know i'll certainly take a look at the packet and make sure it's accurate okay that's the final page on the packet thanks max anything else from the council questions okay let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration duration broken into three and two segments don't engage anyone in the public any council member stay on topic
 Please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, folks, please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be taken first to give people time to line up. Remove mask only when speaking. Please put your mask back on when you are finished. Who would like to address us from the public? I zoom first. Nope.
 oh okay i'm gonna bring it back uh is there anyone here in person to speak before the council uh no okay all right this is an ordinance and it is on the first reading and we can have all the discussion you want or what y'all want to do uh i should be
 pretty quick on this um under the three duplexes they had before my math has that at 10.3 units per acre they go to 8 it's 13.8 we're not talking about a large increase from what was recently there these are the things that we kind of need to start approving so that we don't have to approve these 400 unit subdivisions farther out in the city um
 We're in desperate need of houses. So I think that this makes sense. I'm glad that they're going to hit. If they do do the 8, they're going to hit the plant requirements and then we can start looking at stormwater because those are an issue. I mean, we had some pretty massive flooding just in the last week. We're going to continue to have flooding. We need to
 keep looking at that Then I hope that I can start bringing stuff forward in the future so that we can actually start dealing with that because people are having their houses flooded people are having to put in French drains to Then just divert the water to the next person and then that person gets to build a French drain and it just keeps Castating so we do need to look at that. But I think for this one this makes sense. I have a few comments I
 You know, one of the neighbors has some concerns about Summit
 And so, Jonathan, could you address what infrastructures would be required on Summit and Fletcher? I don't think there's a sidewalk on Summit. I also drove by there today. And, you know, while to the west, it says RMF 24. If you drive by there, those houses, that may be the zoning, but that's not the build type.
 So I think it would be really helpful if council has not been in the neighborhood to maybe take a drive by on there. But I do would like to hear what could be addressed under RSF 18 with the infrastructure.
 Certainly, thank you for the question. You're correct. Fletcher is fairly built out. It does include sidewalk on one side of the street, which is fairly typical of our old hilltop, hillside overlay district street standard. We try and keep them narrower without green space to avoid grading. Summit, on the other hand, is fairly narrow. No curb, no gutter, no sidewalk. If a project did come through here,
 We always have the question of the size of the project and what it could possibly support. Any improvements on Summit would likely require widening. My last visit to the street showed it under 20 feet wide, which could necessitate, might be necessary to accommodate fire code if some of the proposed houses are to face Summit as opposed to Fletcher.
 projects going on fletcher it's not clear necessarily what would be required along there again it just depends on what's being proposed it's a it's always a hard question to answer at this point but i certainly think any development on fletcher would necessitate some significant improvements okay thank you what other discussion do we have okay this is an ordinance it's sitting on the first reading right now um
 So Mayor, I'm wondering if we could leave it here and then maybe have a tour. Hopefully the weather would be better in two weeks or so, so we could actually kind of walk around the neighborhood. So that's what I would recommend. I just think it's so important to have the opportunity to walk the land and figure out, especially in the hillside, hilltop area of town.
 I definitely would support a tour and give an opportunity for neighbors to come and chat. I appreciate that Max said he has reached out to neighbors, and that's really awesome. So maybe just give them one more opportunity and hold it here. Is anybody opposed to holding it? Okay, so I guess we will leave it right here for two weeks. Well, that concludes our business. Do you have any announcements? No.
 Mayor Jordan I have announcement after Susan I actually have an announcement which is required the city prosecutor works for me and as part of the change we made for a hate crime component in city prosecution of the federal code he we were supposed to announce to the City Council
 first meeting in May, what had happened since October of last year. Well, he has not run into a case yet in the first five months. I think he ended it through the March 30th, is the report, and then in talking to our city prosecutor, he is keeping an eye out for any case that would be appropriate, but at this point in time, he has not had to enter a prosecution where he would
 have put in place the enhancement that the City Council passed back in October. So I think next year we'll have a more complete statement from him. He'll have a whole year at that point to look back at, but I told him he would not need to come to the City Council meeting tonight, and I would convey this report to you all. I'll be ready to try to answer any questions that you might have.
 Okay. Council, I just wanted to let you know that on Friday of this week, we will be releasing the City of Fayetteville application form to be able to apply for a board committee or commission. So that will open up the vacancies. They will be posted on the city clerk website and under boards, committees, and commissions. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. We're adjourned tonight. Good work.