I would like to call the, well, here we go. That's good. I'd like to call the City Council meeting for May the 3rd, 2016 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Shop owner. Here. Lodger. President. Long. Here. Right. Here. March. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, first order of business I have denied is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 19, 2016 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2016 Arrow XT fire engine from Pierce Manufacturing Incorporated of Appleton, Wisconsin, in the amount of $551,396 plus a performance and payment bond at the cost of $3,453 pursuant to the Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Act.
 contract to approve a contingency of $16,625 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2016 Rescue Pumper Fire Engine from Pierce Manufacturing Incorporated
 Appleton, Wisconsin in the amount of $681,111 plus a performance and payment bond at a cost of $4,295 pursuant to the Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Contract and to prove a contingency of $34,271. Number four, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a 2016 Toro Grounds Master 4000D from
 Professional Turf Products LP of Lenexa, Kansas in the amount of $62,441.17 pursuant to a National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase of two Huster Super Z mowers from Williams Tractor at FedMil in the total amount of $26,508 per cent to a state procurement contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
 Number six, a resolution authorized the purchase of a 2016 Dodge Ram 2500 Crew Cab 4x4 from Lewis Automotive Group of Fayetteville, Arkansas in the amount of $26,863 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department. Number seven, a resolution authorized the purchase of a 2016 Dodge Ram 2500 Crew Cab 4x4
 from lewis automotive group of federal arkansas in the amount of 26 863 dollars pursuant to a state procurement contract used by the transportation department number eight a resolution authorized purchase of a caterpillar cb34b double drum roller from j.a riggs tractor company of springdale ark
 in the amount of $50,089 presented to a National Joint Powers Alliance cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Transportation Department.
 Number nine, a resolution to repeal resolution number 23-16 and to authorize the purchase of a Volvo MC-135C skid steer from Huggins Hall Equipment of Springdale in the amount of $50,323, presented to a Houston-Galliston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Contract for use at the Westside Wastewater Treatment Facility.
 Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 16-34 and authorize the purchase of upfit items for 12 police patrol units from Cap Fleet Upfitters LLC of Bryant-Arkansas in the amount of $33,912 plus applicable taxes. Number 11, a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement.
 with the University of Arkansas for placement of a wayfinding vehicular signage system to be owned and maintained by the University within the City of Federal right-of-way. Number 12, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize state and street monies for the rehabilitation and overlay of Gregg Avenue between North Street and Township Street.
 13. A resolution to approve a change order number 1 to the contract with the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department in the amount of $7,851.40 to increase the City's share of the costs associated with the Highway 45 Old Wire Road signal and intersection improvements project to the total of $7,851.40.
 to the total amount of $411,454.78 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $92,148.60. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. Adela? I move that the consent agenda be accepted. Do we have a second? Sarah? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Shop owner? Yes. Wheel chair?
 Abstain. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kennedy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Okay. All right. Under old business, we don't have any. Under new business, number one, resolution to approve the agreement for the city of federal to join the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research and Advisory Group. Who has that? Mark. Good evening. Good evening.
 For those that I haven't met before, I'm Mark Rogers, the Water and Sewer Operations Manager. Back in November 2015, the City Council passed a resolution to authorize the Mayor to appoint a designee to represent the City in matters associated with the possible formation of a multi-jurisdictional association to participate in nutrient trading programs.
 The resolution expressed the City's intent to consider entering into a cooperative agreement that may include, but is not limited to, the cities of Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers, and Bentonville to assist in developing a draft nutrient trading regulation towards the statewide nutrient trading program.
 After discussions over the past five months, the group is recommending to their respective administrations the creation of an informal association to lay the groundwork for a formal nutrient trading exchange, as authorized by Act 335 of 2015. The purpose of the group would be to, one, identify potential joint nutrient water quality trading projects. Secondly, to participate in joint projects as approved by respective city councils and commissions.
 and thirdly to jointly develop nutrient trading regulations for proposal to the ADEQ and other agencies. If the regulation proposed by the group is adopted by the state, we anticipate a more formal agreement will be necessary which we brought back to the City Council for consideration. All costs associated with this effort will be shared among all cooperating jurisdictions and subject to City Council approval. Does anyone have any questions?
 mayor i have some additional comments we've been working on the contract to try to make sure that we preserve the city council's power especially over every financial decision that's made in this and i strongly recommend this agreement is pursuant to legislation that we actually were able to get passed by the legislature last year which does several things that are good for us but one of the main things it does it gives us the opportunity to work on the regulations that we're going to be regulated under
 And therefore, we can try to make sure they're going to be fair. They'll accomplish what they need to accomplish, but not present undue burdens on any of the cities in northwest Arkansas.
 So this is a very good opportunity. We've worked with all the city attorneys and the cities for the water and sewer commissions of the various four entities that are joining together here, and we can recommend this agreement. And as was stated several times, every major decision that will be made pursuant to this agreement will have to be ratified by the city councils of the various cities.
 So there's a lot of protection built in for you all, as well as the other cities, and I think it's a very good decision, and I recommend its approval. Okay. John, you have a question or a comment? Mark, just a couple of questions. Just to give an overview of the objective of this agreement, will this allow us, if we're doing a really good job managing our nutrients that we're putting out in the streams, to trade that for something to our advantage? I mean, why do we want to do this?
 Um, primarily, um, it allow us to, uh, share with those areas that don't have similar problems to impaired waterways that we may have. And it could keep us from having to spend money on, uh, wastewater treatment plant improvements in the future. Okay. So it could lead to, uh, budget advantages for us? Save taxpayer dollars? Absolutely. Thank you. Did I answer your question? Mark?
 This has been discussed for quite some time with the Water Sewer Committee. We've received a lot of information on this. And again, the advantage is in the long run, we have two watersheds in Fayetteville, and no other city is dealing with both watersheds. So by sharing the responsibility of both the White River and the Illinois River watershed with other cities, it helps...
 spread the kind of the risk associated with managing these waterways. And when we initially heard this, we knew that it was going to be important. And the group itself will be able to collectively help manage
 manage any, again, any impaired waterways that may occur. And it also encourages each of the cities that will be involved in this to share the burden and the responsibility associated with managing this. So it's a big advantage regionally.
 everyone gets to share the risk but we also get to take the responsibility and since we are not completely aware of how things are going to come down with a DEQ or EPA in the long run it gives us a stronger voice regionally if we can be unified in managing the nutrient load or any impaired waterways in the future
 So as far as water sewer committee goes, it's been something that we have supported all along, and we're very pleased to see that it's made it to this point. Good. Anyone else? Okay. I'm going to open it up for some public comment. Anyone like to address this on this from the public? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we pass the resolution. Mark? I'll second it. Well, you have the floor, though. Anyway. Okay. Okay.
 Do I hear a second? I second. Okay. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Shall the resolution pass? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, the next order of business we have is a resolution to accept and adopt the Kessler Mountain Trails Master Plan.
 Yeah. Thank you, Mayor and Council. As you know, Parks and Recreation has been working on preparation of a trails master plan for the Mount Kessler property since about August of last summer. I would like to introduce Nathan Woodruff, Woody, who is with Progressive Trails Design. He has a presentation of the plan that he'd like to show the Council. Okay.
 Good evening, Council. Good evening. First off, let's get this presentation working. So as Ken had mentioned, my name is Nathan Woodruff, also known as Woody with Progressive Trail Design. We're a local company and we were selected back in June of last year through a competitive bid process, through RFP process, to do the master plan for Kessler Mountain.
 uh this is especially exciting for me and my company because we are i'm a local this is my hometown and i cut my teeth hiking and biking up on this mountain so it has a special place in our heart as ken had mentioned we've we worked on this plan for the last eight months or so we started the process in august we identified a stakeholder group that consisted of approximately 15 different
 user groups such as Ozark Off-Road Cyclist, Fayetteville Natural Heritage Commission, and so on and so forth. Many of those stakeholders were established from previous commitments to Kessler Mountain, specifically in an effort to save the mountain that Frank Sharp kind of orchestrated there.
 and the city along with us as well helped to kind of establish that stakeholder group. So I just want to give you just a brief overview of the plan that we have developed. For anybody who wants to get into more detail, this plan can be downloaded on the Parks and Rec, Fayetteville Parks and Rec website. So starting off, we have an introduction here which just gives you an overview of the project and how this plan came to be, some general background information.
 We have a chapter here on the history of the mountain dating back to you know, the 1800s when it was a winery and then to the acquisition by the city of Fayetteville and Walton Family Foundation grant That happened earlier last year and then we have a piece here on the existing conditions. These are some of the reports that were in place before we started the master planning process and
 Just to name a few, we have Mount Kessler Reserve by Frank Sharp. This is one of the documents that kind of helped lead the way to help to ultimately save Mount Kessler and bring attention to the mountain, specifically the 387 acres. Another report that helped drive the process here was the Ecological Assessment by Theo Witzel.
 This was hired or done by the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission and paid for by Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association. This is a pretty hefty document, approximately 150 pages or so, that identifies all the sensitive areas of Mount Kessler. We also included the regional park plan and an analysis of some of the old-growth forest parcels. In addition, we have some data use for the trailhead log that was at the...
 be the north entrance there the smokehouse entrance on frank sharp's land where he kept kept a log of all the different users to go through that entrance there some of the key objectives that were established at the beginning of this plan by the stakeholder group was to assess the sustainability of existing trails and needs for potential reroutes address the needs and desires of targeted user groups while considering impacts to wildlife and other resources
 Improve user safety and reduce user conflict by better organizing the trail system, creating additional areas for the public to recreate, and offering more loop options to better disperse traffic. Assess the skill level of existing trails and propose new trails that create a greater diversity of user ability and skill levels. Determine key connections between recreational areas and improve trail system functionality by creating better links to trails.
 Also to create a sustainable multi-use trail system that appeals to the widest variety of users. Going to the planning process here, we list the stakeholder groups that were involved. We had a total of two public meetings, public input sessions, as well as an online survey and approximately six different stakeholder meetings over the course of the last eight months. All these meetings and input helped to
 kind of move the to help to determine the ultimately the plan here is a map of the plan there is approximately eight miles of existing trail which is outlined in red and then there's approximately 6.6 miles of new proposed trail that's a total of three trails varying in skill level
 and varying in length and serving different purposes in terms of connections to key locations or simply just recreational opportunities. There's a pretty lengthy chapter here on existing trails. We did a full assessment of those trails
 and GPSed all the areas that were problem spots such as seeps or eroded trails that needed to be realigned in order to meet sustainable standards. And we GPSed those points and provided a condition and prescription for each of those points.
 Another important note here in this chapter is the private trail. Approximately two miles of the existing trail system is on private land, and that is outlined here in the map. So to the north, I'll kind of zoom in here, to the northwest you have the Rock City Trail, which extends from Frank Sharr's property up to the peak there around the Shell Barren.
 And as you can see, approximately a mile of that is on private property. And in the southwest corner, you have another approximately a mile of trail that is on private property as well. Both of these trails are pretty integral to the system. And we would recommend that we should look into the possibility of either getting an easement or an acquisition of some sort in it to retain these trails.
 Here's just a brief overview of the new trails. We have the beginner loop, which is approximately a mile and a half, which leaves from the regional park trailhead. That offers a beginner opportunity, beginner loop for hikers and bikers. Then you have the lower bluff trail, which skirts the east bluff, kind of right along the base of the bluff line there. And the third proposed trail is the east bluff trail, which is on the upper part of the bluff line.
 This outlines the five different trailheads. The temporary trailhead for the system will be the baseball parking lot that is being built currently. And the main trailhead will eventually be the trailhead at the base of the, or the parking area at the base of the landfill. Then there's an additional trailhead on Judge Cummings Road, and then possibly a secondary parking trail area off of Kessler Mountain Road.
 and an ADA trailhead and senior citizens parking by the water towers. This chapter is about signage, risk management, and maintenance. We have developed a plan that outlines the emergency access routes on the mountain. When the connection is made from the north end to the south end via greenway, that would be kind of the primary north-south connection.
 And then up into the preserve area itself is the Trent Trail, which we've recommended be widened and established for more of an ATV access. This is the Northwest Arkansas sign plan. It was developed by ALTA and PTD as well. And finally, the phasing plan and budget. We recommended that initial efforts be focused on...
 Figuring out the private property situation for the trails, for the two miles of trails that are on private property. And also the existing trail to be improved would be a top priority. So implementing the trail improvement plan that we've outlined. Additionally, there should be signage for the existing trail system should be installed as soon as possible for both risk management and better wayfinding.
 and then a connector trail that would leave from the baseball parking lot that would head up to the top of the mountain to the existing system. And finally, for that first phase, we recommend doing a final design on any new trails that would be developed in the future. And we've set a budget here. And in the appendix, we've also included the Mount Kessler Trail connections,
 for concrete and greenway trail connections, as well as all the public input data and the public input survey as well. Thank you very much for your time. What questions do we have? Questions. Any questions? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anything from the council? Okay. We'll open it up for public comment. Who would like to address this from the public? Seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. Sarah. Sarah.
 I move that we pass the resolution. Allen? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? John? Mayor, I'd just like for us to consider even remedial steps we might take now to make sure our trails are not misused for criminal activity.
 I'm getting reports from people in my ward of existing trails where drugs and drug paraphernalia are being found and local property owners are finding that sort of activity and that discourages them from having the public come on or near their property. So I'd like for us to have a plan even now in Port of Alts planning, and we may already have one. Woody didn't discuss that. Just to...
 be proactive and try to keep the trails a wholesome place for everybody. Well, we certainly want to keep everything safe. Absolutely. Sure. Any other comments?
 Mayor, I'd like to thank our staff and the volunteers that have worked very hard on this plan and brought this to reality. I think as you were with me when we were able to do the actual final purchase, and that was one of the best days for Fayetteville to save over 300 acres there and hook it up to our other park for over 600 acres preserved.
 And now with this fine plan being developed, including everybody that wanted to have input and was brought in, I think it shows what we can do in Fayetteville, and I think this is going to be just a wonderful asset. I'd like to thank the Walton Family Foundation again and the Natural Heritage Association for all their help in financing this. And I think that when the city council decided to purchase this, I really want to congratulate you. That was a very wise decision and something that I think everybody on this council can be proud of.
 I totally agree. Any other comments? Okay. Thanks everybody. Okay. Shall the resolution pass? Shopmont? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Lawn? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Kennedy? Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Alright. Number three. Kind of like Cecil B. DeMille's movie. It's been about 15 years in the making, hasn't it? Or longer. Anyway.
 number three an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition RZN 16-5358 for approximately 1.88 acres located at 1429 East Hustle Road from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to CS Community Services and rmf24 residential multifamily 24 units per kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to community services and RMF-24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Andrew? Andrew?
 apologize this is at the southeast corner of huntsville road and curtis avenue as you can see in google earth here we have the place marker shown in yellow there's two existing homes that are pretty close to huntsville road there's also a vacant lot behind that they're proposing to rezone the entire area which is about two acres they're proposing
 The proposal is to rezone the northern portion right at the corner to CS Community Services. The applicant has talked about potential for mixed use, including potential for non-residential uses or vertical mixed use, including maybe apartments above shops, and transitioning back to more multifamily uses to the south in the vacant field area. We feel like it's a good rezoning proposal. Transition well from the adjacent multifamily apartments to the east and to the south.
 To the west is a duplexes just on the other side of the street There's also a music studio if you've noticed that at the the southwest corner of Curtis and Huntsville Road So I feel like it's a good transition and we also feel it's in line with our city plan 2030 to encourage Neighborhoods that are walkable and you have neighborhood services and goods within walking distance of where people live This is also right along one of our transit routes. There's a bus stop here so this is also where we want to encourage more density where we have our bus stops and
 and the Planning Commission and staff are recommending approval. Thanks. Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes. Hi. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Aaron Ederman, and I'm available for questions. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Thank you, Mayor. I'll just be recusing from this. I'm not a part of the team requesting this, but the applicant is one of my business partners. Okay. Okay.
 Anybody else? Okay. Oh, Sarah. I have not received any comments from the neighborhood residents, but based on the The area I think that this is a really good fit and will hopefully bring some more services to that location Okay, anybody else any questions? Okay. I'm gonna open it up for some public comment Would anybody like to address it from the public on this? See now bring back to the council Sarah. Oops. Okay, Sarah. I
 I mean we move to the second reading Alan I had a question but I can wait I can wait okay we have a second yeah Justin I second it okay all right shall a motion pass yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay now Alan you had a question
 No, let me read the title. Sorry, sorry. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5358 for approximately 1.88 acres located at 1429 East Huntsville Road from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to CS community services and RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. No. No.
 well I I do that then think that this development would bring a lot to the area my question is more about the traffic and infrastructure because we've heard a lot of people from Ward one I know talk about traffic in that area as Ward 4 Rep Sarah and Adela do you think that that would impact traffic at all I just know that I haven't heard any complaints at all about it
 And this is on the in-town side of the crossover connection. So a lot of the traffic that's coming in out that highway is actually turning right on crossover. And so by the time they reach this area, they've had a little opportunity to disperse.
 But if anything, I have received comments from residents in the past that live in this neighborhood that had trouble accessing fresh foods. People who were reliant on transit and couldn't get to the grocery store and were having to feed their kids out of the 7-Eleven because that was the only place they could walk to. So if we can get some more services in this area where we see a lot of people on public assistance without transportation options, this would be ideal. So I think it's going to be a really good fit. Thank you.
 any other questions or comments okay now motion move to the third and final reading Justin second okay the most in a second to go to the third and final rate son would you please color yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 an ordinance to rezone that property uh described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5358 for approximately two acres located at 1429 east huntsville road from rsf force residential single family four units per acre to cs community services and rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre any final comments from the council okay sell the ordinance pass
 Schottmeyer? Yes. LeTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ingram? Yes. Petty? I recuse. Bennett? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5360 for approximately 0.34 acres located at 930 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18-16.
 Seeing residential single family 18 years break kit it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description of deal will be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to residential single-family 18 units per acre and
 And Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Andrew. Yes, sir. This property is just across the street from the Senior Center and Walker Park. And it's a vacant lot that was developed with one home, and it's currently – the home has been removed years past. They're proposing to rezone the property from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18.
 would like the proposal from the staff's perspective is compatible with the surrounding walker park neighborhood single family homes the walker park plan identified a lot of single family homes and smaller single family homes and infill in the area and this was recommended for approval by the planning commission and staff thank you it's the applicant here
 Yes, thank you again. And my name is Aaron Ederman. I'm one of the applicants along with Alderman Petty on this. Okay. Matt? Thank you, Mayor. Obviously I'll be recusing on this one too. Okay. Is there any questions for the applicant or the staff from the council? Al? The one question I had, if I could ask Andrew, is –
 Now that we have RSF 18 on our zoning codes, usually we would see form-based zoning codes come to us. And we're seeing some form-based zoning codes being changed to more standard RSF zoning codes, residential, multifamily, whatever it may be. But are we moving away somewhat from that? I've noticed that these were recommended by staff. Yeah.
 The RSF 18 zone is a form-based zoning district in our opinion. It does have a build-through zone so buildings are still required to be placed up close to the street. So it's the label of it is RSF so it is a single-family only zoning, but it still is a form-based zone in our opinion. So we feel like we're still in line with where we're trying to go as a with our city and traditional development patterns. One of the advantages, one of the reasons we created the RSF 18
 zoning district was to allow for some smaller single-family infill lots to be Built out and also allow for some potential for more affordable housing. However, as you guys see when sometimes you'll have To get those smaller single-family lots in the past We would have to rezone it to a multi-family zoning and that had a difficult time going through the political process So I think this RSF 18 this is a perfect fit for it. Okay Is there any public comment on this?
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I'm very excited to see more infill happening in South Fayetteville, and I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Justin? I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Yes. Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hercuse? Hinnant? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5360 for approximately 0.34 acres, located at 930 South College Avenue, from neighborhood conservation to RSF 18 residential single family, 18 units per acre. So, wish this to the council. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Adela? I second that motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Schottmeyer?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes and orange series on that property is cried and rezoning petition RZ and 16-53 60 for approximately 0.34 acres located at 930 South College Avenue from neighborhood conservation to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre any final comments from the council okay shall the ordinance pass
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number five. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 16-5371 for approximately 3.28 acres located at 5650 East Humpstead Road from RSF 1. Okay.
 residential single family one unit per acre, RA residential agricultural, and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RSF4 residential single family four units per acre. Kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from residential single-family, one unit per acre, residential agricultural, and residential single-family, four units per acre, to residential single-family, four units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville are to hear by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Andrew. Sir, this property is in East Fayetteville. It's on the north side of Huntsville Road. As you can kind of see here where I have it pulled up in Google Earth, it's far to the east and it's an unusual piece of land in that
 The southern part of it was annexed into the city, apparently in 1965 when the city annexed in Lake Sequoia for a water source. And the northern piece was annexed in in the early 2000s as the area was being developed out with the residential neighborhood. So you have an odd split zoning with some old agricultural zoning.
 However, most of the land around there has been developed out and is zoned for RSF4 zoning. That is what the applicant is proposing, RSF4 zoning, to kind of allow this area to be built out similar to the immediately surrounding areas. And the Planning Commission and staff are recommending approval of the rezoning request. We have not received any public comment. There were a couple of Planning Commissioners that voted against the proposal. They were concerned that...
 This proposal was not in line with some of our goals for form-based zoning districts, but with that, we're recommending approval of it. Thank you. Okay, what questions? Is the applicant here? Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Bo Wilkins, and I'm with ESI, and I'm representing the owner. I don't have anything to add to the planning staff's recommendation, but I'd be happy to answer any questions if you have them. Does the Council have any questions for the applicant or the staff on this? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. We have any public comment on this thing. Then I'll bring it back to the council What's the wishes the council now motion to move to the second reading? Yeah Second the motion motion second to go to the second reading shall the motion pass Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes
 an ordinance to rezone that property described and wrote rezoning petition rzn 16-5371 for approximately 3.28 acres located at 5650 east huntsville road from residential single family one unit per acre residential agricultural and residential single family four units per acre to residential single family four units per acre john
 you're on the board okay now motion to move to the third and final reading okay we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading thunder would you please call the room john yes yes yes yes marsh yes king yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 16-5371 for approximately 3.28 acres located at 5650 East Huntsville Road from residential single family one unit per acre, residential agricultural and residential single family four units per acre to residential single family four units per acre. What final comments do we have from the Council of Delaware? Okay. Any final comments from the Council on this? Shall the ordinance pass?
 Sean Martin? Yes. Luke Teer? Yes. Tom? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? No. Hinnick? Yes. Okay. All right, number six. An ordinance to approve vacation 16-5354 submitted by Steve Fowler for property located at 1137 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate portions of a utility easement. Kittman?
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of utility easement are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates portions of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Andrew. Thank you.
 This property is just across the street from the Razorback Soccer Field. It's an existing building. There is a utility easement, a portion of which runs underneath the building. The applicant's proposing to expand this shopping center and add another building and some parking, and so they need to vacate the easement in order to allow for the expansion of the project. And the Planning Commission recommended that this be approved. It was on the Planning Commission as a consent agenda item. Thank you. Okay, is the applicant here? Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have from the council for the staff? I have one. Okay. Mark. This is on the edge of the creek there, so I know whenever we're developing this and we're talking about more impervious surface, that it's going to be running in there, and we're having a high-velocity flow already in that area. So when I look at this, I don't see that there's a... I know that there's engineering ways to handle this, but there's certainly nothing sustainable or...
 are looking at a sustainable solution whenever I look at this property and managing the runoff of more impervious parking. Was this a concern of anyone's? Did anyone mention this?
 The project did go through the development review stage and they did turn in engineering plans including storm water drainage. That was one of the big issues we talked about with improving the sidewalk there. When a large scale development comes through they are required to improve the sidewalk. However, because of the creek and the sensitivity of the area, they're not required to do some of the normal connections here to kind of alleviate some of those issues or at least not to exacerbate them any worse. But yes, we definitely
 we're concerned about those topics? Well, this area is especially significant because we've seen such increase in velocity. I'm not going to support this and that would be why. Because I don't think that more impervious surface there is going to be beneficial in the long run in managing. We're getting such high velocity that's running to the south there and whenever it's going across the way,
 My concern is we're going to see more washout of the stream site, even though we do have some protection.
 We know that this is a problem area with high velocity, and if we ever have flash flood-type situations like we've had the past couple of years, it's going to only exacerbate the situation south of this, and so it's a real concern that we've talked about often in managing our stormwater runoff, and I think it would be remiss if there was not a solution besides just a basic engineering solution
 outline that's meeting a standard in that regard. So that's how I was looking at this whenever I was reviewing the documentation. Thanks. Anything else, Mark? I'm sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off. OK. John. I'll be supporting this proposal. And as Alderman Kenyon pointed out in the beginning of his comment, there are engineering methods we can use to slow down the velocity in the creek.
 to stop the water runoff. And if the applicant has met our standards as he goes through the review process through our planning department, I don't see any reason to deny him or her the privilege of expanding their building. And as far as impervious surfaces, that same argument can be used against every sidewalk ever built in this city. That's introducing impervious surfaces all over town.
 We can't use that as a reason to deny an applicant his willingness to go forward and build more tax base for our city. I find that to be unreasonable. Alan? I have a question for planning. Sure. Andrew, in looking at this, if you zoom out just a little bit from where the shopping center starts to where it stops,
 you know, is between two intersections, and there are approximately 12 curb cuts in that short span. My biggest concern is traffic and infrastructure and safety. I've been in that shopping center before. It's very difficult to pull out of on a busy day, especially around rush hour. How do we feel that we could correct that?
 this shopping center was developed before our current access management ordinances so fortunately we do have codes in place where they we cannot repeat this in other places as a new greenfield development however on this one our access management ordinance does require that if you have a non-conforming situation like this there's so many driveways that are in a it's really dangerous they are going to close up one of the driveways and they're going to add another driveway or two down here to indian trail which is
 the preferred access point because it is a lower classification street so i think you will there will be some improvements it will not be totally fixed with the development but it will be a little bit better i think okay thank you and mark
 I just need to make a clarification. I'm not against impervious planning, and I don't want anyone to think that. I think it's appropriate in this area to look at the sensitive nature of the property as it is adjacent to a waterway that we have already identified as having the potential for flooding and washouts. So...
 I don't want anyone to think in any way that I'm against some development of impervious services. This is a specific situation at a specific location where we have information and data that supports my argument. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark, you're still on the – are you – okay. Alvin. Alvin.
 I'd just like to make one comment. I'm going to support this tonight because we are closing off one of those curb cuts, and we are adding one from the back entrance. Normally I wouldn't support this development in the area because it will add more traffic right across from Fayetteville High School with so many curb cuts already in place. But tonight I will be. Okay. Sir? Sir?
 I'd like to hold this on the first reading. I think Mark raises some good points that I'd like to have some time to consider and go and look at the situation before I vote. Okay. Adele? Well, probably don't need a motion. If you all want to hold it since you represent that ward. Well, you don't just leave it on the first reading. You don't need to have any motion. Everybody good with that? Mm-hmm. All right. Let's leave it here. Thank you.
 All right, moving on to number seven. An ordinance to amend Chapter 116, door-to-door solicitation of the federal code by repealing 116.01, enacting a replacement 116.01, and by amending the definition of solicitor in the 116.02A4. Kip.
 Normally, I just immediately launch into reading the ordinance in this particular case, but as I let you know at the agenda session, that actually I think the original ordinance needs to be amended in one way or the other. There's two things that the City Council, or one thing that the City Council must decide at this point in time. The original ordinance and Amendment A,
 would be more restrictive it would say that if someone has a homeowner a residential property owner has posted upon his or her door or properly posted a sign that says no soliciting then no one apart from emergency personnel government employees uh or or neighbor communicating emergency situation would in fact be allowed to go there because that would be violating the
 private property rights of the homeowner to be able to keep their property from people going onto their property. So it would be no trespassing.
 On further reflection, I actually recommend what is, I would term, Exhibit B, which I've handed out to you, both A and B. A would be more restrictive. B would be where we're changing the definition of solicitor, which would include also someone that is not actually trying to sell something, but someone that is asking for money, whether they're allegedly selling anything or not.
 But that particular code section would not prevent people that are just going on the property to campaign or to proselytize. If they're not trying to sell or receive donations, then they would still be able to go on somebody's property, even though that homeowner has posted their property, no soliciting.
 I think it is constitutional either way because I think private property owners have strong constitutional rights, probably even stronger than someone's First Amendment rights to go and proselytize or to campaign.
 however i don't think we've had a lot of problems with that and maybe slight issues occasionally and therefore i would recommend that you go the one that says no solicitors can go there rather than no person and that would be exhibit or exhibit b and before i read the ordinance i really wanted to get your feelings on that so that the purpose of reading an ordinance is so that the city
 now the public knows what we're talking about so i felt like it wouldn't make much sense for me to read an ordinance that i think should be changed and i would rather let you all tell me what which one of those two options a or b that you would prefer and then allow me to read that one for your consideration okay all right yes john oh who about that y'all well in keeping with my general demeanor i like fewer regulations not more so i'd probably go with option b right off
 But one point I wanted to make clear, when I was campaigning, many times you wouldn't see the no solicitation notice until you got up to the House. So, when I was reading through the proposals this afternoon, Kit, I noticed that you defined the criminal trespass as entering upon the property, knocking or ringing the doorbell, and asking for entrance into the home.
 So if all three of those things were required, I can support it. But if just simply walking onto someone's real estate, before you can actually see, I mean, the door may be 100 yards from the street, so you couldn't see the no solicitation sign until you reached the door. So we want to make sure we're not going to make someone a criminal because they walk up to a house, read the no solicitation sign, and then walk away without ringing the doorbell, without knocking.
 That's that certainly would be the intent of this and it would be basically really a criminal trespass charge So as you see in the in the actual proposed ordinance The owner or legal tenant would have had to post at or near the entry to the residence or conspicuously placed At or near the usual means of ingress toward the home a sign or decal bearing the words no soliciting No trespassing or other words of similar import so basically
 You know you have to pay pretty much walk past the sign or walk up to the door with a no soliciting sign on it Knock on it before you would be committing criminal trespass, and that's that would be probably what would be the enforcement One of the things I changed in this ordinance is that the penalty provision of that particular section
 will be enforced only by the homeowner seeking a no-press-pass criminal charge against someone doing that rather than someone just violating our ordinance. So they would have all the protection of the law. They'd have to show that there was an intent.
 to trespass, which if they ignore the sign, I think that could be proven. But I think there's plenty of protections, and the one that says no peddlers would mean that someone that is still campaigning, as you were, John, could go to the door even if it says no soliciting. Now, you might not want to because maybe somebody doesn't want to talk to you, but you still could and you would not be breaking the law. Okay. Justin? Okay, I have a comment and then a question. Okay.
 I brought this forward however long ago it was originally because there were groups targeting East Fayetteville residents that were coming into town and going to doors and claiming that they were selling magazines for people going to wherever. And no one ever got their magazines. No one ever saw these people again. There were different groups and you'd have another group coming and selling something else.
 This was not Girl Scout cookies. This was clearly scams. And one lady felt very threatened because there were two people at her door and they wouldn't leave her doorstep. And, I mean, it made me...
 think that we need to take some kind of action as a city to protect the citizens. It was never meant so that someone couldn't go up and campaign for something. It was literally for someone selling someone. I felt like targeting our residents all over the city, but especially in East Fayetteville, as I was requested several times by several people to do something about it. So in your opinion, option B still
 It has all the same protections for faithful school children and for campaigns and for religious proselytizing. The only reason I brought this forward, as I tried to explain in my memos to you, is that I was contacted by a group that organizes college-age students to go around and solicit donations. They keep half of the money for their donations.
 They have suggested donation levels by how many books or pamphlets they hand out. They claim they are not selling, and so therefore they would not have met the peddler or soliciting definitions that we have in our ordinance now.
 And because of that and because their intent, and they told me they were planning on coming to Fayetteville, I felt like maybe we needed to be proactive and not wait for all the complaints, but to protect our private property owners' rights if they did not want to be solicited for donations. Okay. Well, then, in that case, I would support the city attorney's option on this particular case. Thank you. Okay. Mark? Mark?
 When I looked at this, I do probably get as many calls about this as anything because people are concerned about who's coming to their door and why. And it seems to me, by the people that call and talk to me, when they have the request that no one comes and bothers them, that they don't want to be bothered regardless. And so with that intent, I kind of like the option A. Am I reading that correctly? If it's posted, it's like...
 Don't come. Don't mess with us. We've got our sign up. Leave us alone. It's posted. Whereas on B, it's like they can have that, but they still might feel bothered by someone, and then we have to decide is that...
 in line with this amended option B. So that is my concern. I haven't decided how to vote yet. But I have had, and I think recently in our area for some reason we've had a real increase in individuals going door to door because I have received a lot of calls regarding this. And I hadn't, after we passed the initial, it stopped and now it's getting, there's more and more of it.
 I think if someone says, don't mess with me, I've got my sign out, that's what they mean, in my opinion. This certainly is a policy decision for the city council. It's a very difficult question. Okay. Al? Well, I personally think that option B would be the more appropriate option.
 version of this ordinance to enact because it actually does address the issue at hand which is Peddlers and solicitors because you can get correct me if I'm wrong, but in Arkansas you can post a no trespassing sign on your property Well, it's it's
 It is true that you can do that. You have to have it properly posted, but you still can do that. And this would basically just give the homeowners a little stronger...
 proof that criminal trespassing occurred because you only commit criminal trespassing if you intentionally trespass when you know you shouldn't and So this ordinance if you said no person can do that this ordinance would imply that anybody that walks past that has done that on purpose and Therefore they could bring a more successful criminal trespass charge against them. It's just whether you want to go with the more restrictive ordinance or do you want to
 I don't know how much of a problem there is out there. You all are close to the people. You know whether there seems to be a problem, and I haven't heard a lot of problems about just campaigning and proselytizing, so that's why I recommended option B. And that is, while also I will support option B, I think we should address the issue, which is solicitation and feddling and leave people's trespassing issues to state law. Mayor?
 I move we amend the ordinance to option B. Allen? I'll second that motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second to do option B. Okay. Any other discussion on that? Okay. Is there any public comment on that?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass option B for the city attorney to read back to us. Correct? Am I right on that? When the motion passes, if it passes, then I'll read option B of the entire ordinance. Okie doke. All right. Everybody good? All right. Shall the motion pass? Yes.
 not mine yes mature yes long yes right yes marsh yes no yes yes okay so it passed so i'm going to read the ordinance now all right an ordinance to amend chapter 116 door-to-door solicitation of the fable code by repealing section 116 01 enacting replacement 116-01 and by amending a definition of solicitor in section 116-02-a4
 Whereas the owners and residents of private residences in Fayetteville have constitutional rights to occupy and control their private homes and prohibit uninvited and unwelcome private citizens from disturbing the quiet enjoyment of their private residences and from invading their constitutional privacy rights.
 And whereas if the owner or resident of a private residence conspicuously posts no soliciting, no trespassing, or similar warning sign in a conspicuous location near the usual means of ingress onto the residential property or on or near the front door of the residence, a person who ignores such sign
 and goes upon the private residential property has committed an intentional trespass in violation of the homeowners' or residents' constitutional rights of privacy and property.
 And whereas no person's right of free exercise of their religion or their free speech is superior to a private homeowner's constitutional right of privacy as his or her residence and constitutional rights control their own private property to the exclusion of other private citizens and whereas section 116 o2a for solicitor needs to include within its definition a person who requests or accepts donations
 Some homeowners will be protected not only from those seeking to sell magazines or other merchandise, but also those soliciting donations of money. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby repeals Section 11601 in its entirety and enact a replacement of Section 11601 as follows, going upon private residential property, subsection A, honoring Fayetteville citizens' private property and privacy rights. No solicitor or peddler not invited by the owner or legal tenant of the private residence shall enter upon the private residence, knock on the door,
 Ring the doorbell or otherwise attempt to gain admittance or ask questions or converse with a private residence occupants if the owner or legal tenant has posted at or near the entry of the residence or Conspicuously placed at or near the usual means of ingress toward the home a sign or decal bearing the words no soliciting No trespassing or other words of similar import section 2. I
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 11602A4 by repealing the first sentence in its entirety and enacting the following to replace the first sentence.
 Subsection 4, solicitor means any person who goes to the door of any private residence in the city not having been invited by the occupant thereof for the purpose A, of taking or intending to take orders for the sale of services or sale of goods, magazines, wares, merchandise, or other personal property of any nature, or B, seeking or accepting donations or making any other request for money or other things of value.
 The remaining second sentence of Section 11602A4 shall be included as a new subsection C. Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Section 11602B by renaming this subsection Obtaining No Soliciting, Decal, or Sign, and amending the first sentence to read, The Planning Department shall provide any resident of the City a decal or sign which reads No Soliciting.
 Section 4 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Section 11602F penalty and enacts the following replacement section. Section F penalty, a violation of Section 11601 and 11602E2 and 8 shall support a homeowner's or lawful tenant's right to seek a charge of criminal trespass from the city prosecutor.
 A violation of any other provision in Section 11602 shall be punishable pursuant to Section 10.99 of the Fayetteville Code. Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 11602 and and enact a replacement of Subsection as shown below and re-letters Subsection to Subsection .
 Subsection H, exemptions for free speech rights and for fateful children through high school senior status. Number one, as long as a person is not acting as a solicitor or peddler and is only exercising free speech rights, the person shall be exempt from all permitting requirements and prohibitions of this section, but should honor the reasonable time limits of E3 and must obey a homeowner's or tenant's request to leave pursuant to E8.
 subsection 2 fable school children or fable children sorry through high school senior status must abide by the restrictions found in e2 3 4 and 8 but are otherwise exempt from the remainder of this chapter okay all right do we have any questions for the amended ordinance for kit any other questions yes uh uh alan
 I have a question on section H, subsection 2. It says Fayetteville children through high school senior status. Would that be found a bit ambiguous, a term of Fayetteville children who are still in school? I don't know. This is the same language we have used in the current one, and I think it is clear. I don't really think it's ambiguous, particularly,
 I think it clearly means that if you're a fable child and you're through your senior status in school until you graduate, or if you end or leave, then you are going to be exempt from this ordinance. So I really don't think it is ambiguous as what the language was approved in the first one, and I think it's still proper here. Okay. All right, any other questions? All right. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. Okay.
 and then i'll bring it back to the council and i would suggest you know this is an important issue and uh we just actually have finally gotten around to telling the public which option that you preferred so i would suggest you not go to the third final reading and and and try to pass this tonight okay adela i mean we go to the second reading we have a second we don't have a second
 We just leave it here. Yes All right. Well, thank you all What announcements do we have that concludes our business? Yes, there'll be an ordinance review committee meeting May 5th at 4 o'clock in room 326. We'll be discussing the festival ordinance Okay, anybody else Marty? I think you had a comment didn't you? Okay Mayor I have a few a few announcements. I
 We'd like our citizens to know that
 The Federal Transportation Division is currently repaving Sunbridge Drive, so it's being paved at night this week, so that street's closed to the public. May 2nd, last night, finishing this Friday night, so it'll be closed in the southbound west side lane of College Avenue at Sunbridge and the northbound east side lane of Gregg at Sunbridge from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. every evening this week.
 I also would like to bring to your attention that the 2016 spring bulky waste cleanup is happening this Saturday at the Recycling and Trash Facility at Happy Hollow Road, May 7th, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 And finally, this is the National Bike Month. May is the bike month, and several events are going on. Coming up May 4th, the National Bike to School Day encourages students to safely ride to school. May 14th is the Square to Square Bike Ride, 32 mile ride on the Razorback Greenway from Fayetteville to Bentonville Square.
 May 20th, National Bike to Work Day. National Bike to Work Day. Great day to ride to work. Anyway, check our website and announcements for all the activities going on this month for Bike Month. Okay. John. Thursday is our National Day of Prayer. Just encourage everybody to be praying for our country and our city. Anybody else? Also, this week is Teacher Appreciation Week. So when you see a teacher, thank them. Okay?
 I don't have anything else, any other business. All right? Thank you all. We're adjourned.