Good evening everyone. I'd like to call our May 17 City Council meeting to order. Kim, welcome tonight. We'd like for you to call the roll now. Wedeker? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here.
 Thank you, Kim. Would everyone join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Okay, everyone, we have several walk-on items this evening. And I'll start with those. Sure, the right ones here.
 The first one we have is a resolution to approve, and Kit, I'm just reading them off the agenda so that you can present it to me. A resolution to approve an extension of the city sewer system beyond the city limits to property located at or near 1528 South Roberts Road. And I believe, I'm not sure who has this one.
 Is this you, DeAndre? Yeah, I think that since you read the title at this point in time, we just need to have a motion to suspend the rules and place this on the agenda. I move to suspend the rules and place the item at the beginning of the agenda. Second. Thank you. Kim, would you call the roll, please? Wiedeker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey?
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Okay, and I think, sorry, Kitt? Madam Mayor, now I will read the resolution so the public knows what we're talking about. Okay, thank you. Whereas Section 51.113 Sewer Service and Extension Policy states that, quote, the city's sewage system shall not be extended outside the city's corporate limits except on the express approval of the city council, end quote.
 And whereas Ashley Fitzgerald has requested to connect to the city's sewer main that currently runs near her property located at 5228 South Roberts Roads.
 And now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves the request by the Fitzgeralds for an extension of the city's sewage system beyond the city limits to their property located at 5228 South Roberts Roads upon payment of the necessary tapping fee and any other fees and costs for the sewer connection. And the sponsor of this, I think, was Councilmember DeAndre Jones.
 Yes, Kit, that's correct. And I believe that Ashley's present tonight. She is, DeAndre. Okay, DeAndre, do you want to tell us a little bit about this? And then if we have any questions for the applicant, we can ask them to come up. Is that okay? Yes, yes, I can. Okay.
 According to Ashley, she reached out to me and I'm reading the email so I don't miss anything. Ashley stated that the land was surveyed and they proposed a new water line and a sewer line. The city planning department had stamped it for their approval.
 It was an oversight by some folks downtown thinking we were city instead of county. We were told we were good to go and started our building process. Corey Granderson said we should have been told we needed to be annexed and we should...
 And we should have been told this very important information before we started the building process. You can see the position we are in, and we rely heavily on the information we receive from the city. Time is of the essence, and this could have been dealt with months ago. We are thousands of dollars in in past permits and those sorts of things. Ashley states that she's very thankful for our time and help. And I believe,
 Corey Granderson can also provide some insight as well. Okay, thank you, DeAndre. Do we have any additional information from the staff? Corey Granderson was mentioned earlier.
 This is Tim for utilities. There is a sewer line close to that address and we do not have any issues with capacity there. So if it was approved by the council, we would have no problem with it. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Is the applicant present? Do you have anything you'd like to add to this or no?
 If you'd please come up to the mic if you have anything to say there. We understand you guys have approved that and we appreciate it very much. Corey was on board. Everything seems fine. And your name is? My name is Charlie Hoagland. I'm the father of the kids. But everything is there. So we just need something that lets us.
 get a tap and continue on with our house build. Okay, okay. Okay. That's what we're working on. Okay. So thank you very much. Thank you very much. So that if we have any other questions for we would call you back up. Do any of the council members have any questions for either DeAndre, Tim or the applicant? Do you have a question, son? Go for it. I was just going to clarify what's the cost to the city?
 Good question for staff. Tim, did you hear that question? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you got to hear the question. The question is just what was the cost to the city? The cost to the city? Well, the applicant would have to pay for the sewer tap, and then the city would come out and perform the tap, and then they would pay for it, I think, roughly around $425, I think, for a sewer tap. And then, of course, impact fees would apply, too.
 Okay, so nominal for the city. Okay. Yeah, they would get paid for their the Tapping fee. So they would be the same would be reimbursed basically. All right Thank you Basically the city it's washed for the city because the cost for the city will be paid for with a sewer tap and Any other potential cost so it really doesn't cost the city anything we are in
 The reason this was put in there where it required city council approval is that a few years back we had to spend $200 million to increase our capacity for our citizens and our other customers like Farmington and Elkins. And it was thought that this was a very valid and valuable resource to allow someone to have sewer. And so it should only be allowed outside the city by the city council approval.
 Okay, that's what I thought my understanding was. Those are double checking. Thank you. Ms. Vice Mayor? Yes. I just wanted to offer a point of clarification since this did indeed go through the planning division as a part of the review process. I guess I should specify a lot split went through the planning division as a part of this review process. Sewer and water connections are typically not a part of that review. The applicant or the property owner is correct that they were on there. They also showed a septic leach field.
 But I did want council to know and perhaps take comfort in knowing that we will be making sure that our lot split review process is also looking at this part of utilities since that is not normally considered a piece of minor land subdivisions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Jonathan. Do we, any other questions from the council before I take public comment? Do we have any one on public comment here? Let me read my list off.
 get to it here you get one turn to speak five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and then followed by those in the chamber do we have anyone on zoom no ma'am okay anybody in the chamber want to address this item okay seeing none i bring it back to the council
 What would you guys like to do? Madam Chair or Madam Mayor, I have a question. So maybe this is directed at Jonathan. You mentioned there was a leach field. So during the split of the property, how does that work? Or is the applicant allowed to build housing on a leach field? Or how does that impact things? Yes.
 Thank you for the question. That is a good question. I think as far as the status of the leach field, the property owner would need to answer that question. The city does not have the authority to review building permits in the county. This creates a cross jurisdictional challenge when staff has the authority to review subdivisions and minor subdivisions like lot splits and a typical residential subdivision, but not detailed plans like a building permit site plan where houses are and where they typically connect to sanitary or septic.
 If your question is what's the status of the septic, I'd need to defer to the property owner or the representative on this one. Okay, I will draw my question since it's not really pertinent to this conversation we're having right now. Thank you. Oh, okay. Do we have a question for maybe Kit?
 But I know the last time we did this, it was, I think it was a hardship case. Does this have similar circumstances or what would be the procedure? I really can't comment on that. If that question was to me, that's really something for the applicant to present or the sponsor, DeAndre, to explain. I think that there is some exigency here. I think they were concerned about getting it to the council because they were going to
 begin building or something, I don't know, but they would be better, I would ask the applicant or their spokesman to come up and explain the emergency part of this maybe. Would the applicant like to come up and explain the emergency part of this?
 For us, state your name, please. My name is Ashley Fitzgerald and we applied for our home loan and was approved after we received the okay on the lot line. In which we believed we could move forward with the build. We have
 Our contractors all scheduled to come out essentially this week, starting tomorrow and Thursday to start working on plumbing. If we were to go septic, we would have to have the land perked, go through that process, which we were told could take anywhere between four and six weeks. After that approval, then to get on to tap with the city, we were told could be another four weeks out.
 This would then delay all the other jobs that we're following. If we are able and it is approved to tap with city, we can start laying the plumbing to go in the direction to coincide with that versus having to lay it the opposite direction. Our loan turns to a mortgage loan in April. We'll have to extend our lease. And so everything's just building upon that and the timing.
 Okay, thank you. Holly, does that answer your question? It does, thank you. Okay, thank you.
 Madam Vice Mayor. Yes. And so I was able also to speak to the applicants. And I think really Jonathan summed it up for us that, you know, it was just like a misunderstanding about the application. And so I also understood that, you know, they were, they got all the, everything's full steam ahead and the plans change. And it was a mistake and administrative situation on our part, which we learned. So I felt like it was good to,
 hear their case and bring it forward to the city council so that we could you know listen and and learn and hopefully change some of our update some of our processes along the way thank you okay thank you so yeah i don't see interest rates going down so i could see why that they would want to kind of lock that in um on that point i'll move to approve the resolution second second okay we have a motion to in a second to approve the resolution kim would you please call the roll
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. So the resolution is approved. Okay. Thank you.
 So our next walk-on item is a resolution to approve an extension of the city sewer system beyond the city limits to property located at or near 903 South Baldwin Avenue. I move to suspend rules on item 2022-0437 to the front of the agenda. Second. So we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules and add this to our agenda. Kim, would you please call the roll? We'd occur.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, that passed, so I'll read the body of it.
 Whereas section 51.113 sewer service and extension policy states that the city sewage system shall not be extended outside the city's corporate limits except on the express approval of the City Council and whereas Jerry Payton has requested to connect to the city sewer main that currently runs near his property located at 903 South Baldwin Avenue.
 now therefore be resolved by the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby approves the request by jerry payton for an extension of the city's sewerage system beyond the city limits to his property located at 903 south baldwin avenue upon payment of the necessary tapping fee and any other fees and cause for the sewer connection thank you kit so i am the person sponsoring this and i was approached by mr payton
 He is in an area on Baldwin Avenue where there's people directly to the south of him that are on the sewer system. The sewer line, I believe, runs right through his front yard or very close to his house. The neighbors across the street are on sewer and his brother to the north of him is on sewer.
 He's at a point where he is needing to update his septic system. It is not in the best condition and it's something that's going to cost him a lot of money to fix and he would prefer to be added onto the sewer the way all of his neighbors are. I don't know.
 how it ended up that his brother to the north of him got on to the sewer. I think there might have been a little bit of a mix up there and that his brother probably should have come through the council as well, but that didn't happen.
 It is a hardship in the sense that it is a great expense to him to remove the septic. He needs a new septic tank completely. Redo the leach lines. It's quite an expense to do that. And it's much less expensive and safer if he's on the sewer system. So I don't think the applicant is here tonight. Jerry, Peyton, are you here by any chance? Want to add anything to that? No.
 No, he's not. So that's my conversation with him and why I brought this item forward. So any council members have any questions for me in my conversation with Mr. Payton? Okay. Okay. Any member of the public want to address this item? Anyone on Zoom? Susan? No, ma'am. Okay. Anybody in the chambers want to address this?
 Okay, seeing none I close the floor to public comment and how would the council like to Deal with this item. I'm gonna ask the same question. Is this a nominal cost to the city?
 This is the same situation except Baltimore Avenue, the east side of Baltimore Avenue is the city limits. So everybody on the east side is hooked up to the city sewer system. The west side that Mr. Payton lives on is not, but it is true. The sewer line pretty much runs in his front yard. But then again, no cost to the city because they're reimbursed the tapping fees and any other equitable charges that would apply in this situation.
 Yeah, it makes sense to not have leach lines this close to the city. So I'll move to approve the resolution. Second. Before we vote, I have one question for Tim. So I'm looking at the map right now. There's plenty of sewer capacity for adding another household on there. Is that correct? I'm sorry, I did forget to mention that. Yes, we have ample capacity out there for adding another user to the lawn.
 Thank you. Are there any neighbors around who might want to do the same thing? And would we have capacity for them as well? There are other houses. Like Council Member Bunch said, there are some already on the west side that are heading to the sewer, a couple houses. But there are others on that street that could look to the sewer if they request to do so.
 And we would have capacity to do that? Yes, we would. Okay, thank you. Okay, so we had a motion and a second to approve this. So, Kim, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? No.
 Yes. Kenyon. Yes. So the resolution passes? Oh yes, I'm sorry, yes, the resolution passed. Okay. And I have a question for Tim on this before we go on to the next one. So if the resolution passes, how quickly can Mr. Payton apply for his TAP and possibly get started on this?
 Well, as soon as the paperwork is signed in the mayor's office, he will be able to go down to engineering and pay for a tap and come out to our offices. And we will be able to put it on our schedule and we'll we'll get out there just as quick as we can and do that. I would anticipate that the mayor will be able to give his approval as soon as tomorrow.
 and a resolution is effective immediately. And so once the mayor has officially approved the resolutions that are passed tonight, then they'll all be effective immediately. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Kit.
 All right. So that's in our discussion on that item. Our next walk on item is a resolution to express the city council sympathy for the innocent grocery store shoppers in Buffalo, New York, who were victims of a horrific racist murderer. Move suspend rules and add item 2022-0467 to the agenda. Second. Second.
 And, okay, so we've had a motion and a second to add that to our agenda. Kim, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, this is placed on the agenda, and I'll read the body now so the public knows what we're doing. Okay.
 Whereas the following innocent grocery store shoppers became victims of racial hatred and bigotry in Buffalo, New York, committed by a racist murderer. Aaron Salter, Pearl Young, Ruth Whitfield, Andre McNeil, Hayward Patterson, Roberta Drury, Geraldine Talley, Catherine Massey, Celestine Chaney, and Margaret Morrison.
 And whereas the City Council wishes to express its grief and remorse for these victims and their families. And whereas the City Council stands united with Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown as he works to heal his city,
 and with the National League of Cities as it seeks to heal our nation, which has continued to suffer a plague of mass murders of people because of their race, sexual orientation, gender identity, or religion. Now therefore it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, on behalf of all of our citizens, hereby expresses their grief and remorse for the victims of a racist murderer in Buffalo, New York, as well as their sympathy for the victims' families and friends. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby expresses their solidarity and support for Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown as he seeks to heal his great city,
 and pledges the City Council's support, along with the National League of Cities, to work to end the nationwide plague of murders against persons based upon their race, religion, sexual orientation or gender identity. This was asked, I was asked by Councilmember Jones to bring this forward, so he is a sponsor of this and I think maybe he might want to make comments. DeAndre, do you have anything to add to that?
 Thank you so much, Kit, and thank you to my fellow city council members for considering passing this. I serve as Fayetteville's representative to the Racial Equity and Leadership Council of the National League of Cities. And if this is passed, then I will be sending this to the NLC and to the mayor of Buffalo expressing our condolences. Thank you.
 Would any members of the council like to address this item? I just, Vice Mayor, I'd just like to thank Deandre, Councilmember Jones, for bringing this forward on our behalf. So thank you, Deandre. Thank you. Do we have any members of the public that would like to address this item? Susan, is there anyone on Zoom? No, ma'am. Okay. Anyone in the audience would like to address this possibly?
 Seeing none, I close the floor to public comment and bring it back to the council. What are the council's wishes on this item? I appreciate DeAndre bringing this forward. It's important that we call evil where we see evil. So I'm glad we're doing this. If there aren't any more questions, I'm going to approve the resolution. Second. Okay. Thank you. Did you have something to add, Mark? Okay.
 We have a motion to approve and a second. Kim, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Thank you very much. Looks like that passed. Okay, now on to our, let's see here.
 Oh, we've got consent agenda look forward to next. So on our consent agenda, we have A1, the approval of the May 3rd, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Two, resolution to authorize the acceptance of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant in the amount of $135,000 for reimbursement of the city's matching portion of a 90-10 federal aviation administration grant used for roof repair to the east side of T-Hangers at Drakefield Airport and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Three, a resolution to approve the purchase of self-containment breathing apparatus masks, parts, and rapid intervention air packs from G&W Diesel Services Incorporated, DBA, EVS, in the amount of $49,249.58, plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges pursuant to
 2. A Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Contract for use by the Fire Department. 4. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $11,306, recognizing hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. 5. A resolution to purchase...
 A resolution to approve the purchase of Air Cascade Systems and parts from G&W Diesel Services Inc. DBA EVS in the amount of $93,084.72 plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Contract.
 for use at Fire Stations 8 and 9 and to approve a budget adjustment. 2019 Firefighting Facilities Improvement Spawn Project. Six, a resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01 Selection 9 in the amount of $201,840 for the development of a Lake Fayetteville water quality study and to approve a budget adjustment.
 7. A resolution to approve an amendment to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineering, Inc. in the amount of $23,130 for additional work for the Zion Road Vantage to Crossover Project and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 Street Improvements Bond Project.
 8. A resolution to authorize a contract with AEP-SWEPCO for utility relocations associated with the Center-Harman Intersection project, with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $53,630.80 and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 Street Improvement Bond project.
 9. A resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $25,400 for construction phase services associated with the Archibald-Yale Boulevard Improvements Project and to approve a Budget Adjustment 2019 Transportation Bond Project.
 10. A resolution to authorize the purchase of gym equipment for the new police headquarters building from Advanced Exercise Fitness Solutions pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract in the amount of $95,178.04.
 plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges to authorize future purchases on an as-needed basis through October 1, 2024 and any future renewal periods and to approve a budget adjustment.
 11 a resolution to authorize the purchase of space saver mobile storage systems and shelving for the new police headquarters building from Patterson Pope and other dealers pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract in the amount of two hundred and fifty three thousand nine hundred and nineteen dollars and thirty four cents plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges and to authorize future purchases and
 on an as-needed basis through March 25, 2024, and any future renewal periods. Twelve, a resolution to authorize a contract with Connor & Winters LLP pursuant to RFQ 22-02 to provide legal services for public-private partnerships, negotiations, contracts, and closing documents over a five-year period and to approve a budget adjustment.
 13, a resolution to authorize the purchase of technology solutions, products and services from authorized reseller pursuant to a TIPS cooperative purchasing contract on an as needed basis through March 31st, 2027 and any future renewal periods.
 Fourteen, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Fayetteville to apply for federal aid transportation alternative program funds through the Arkansas Department of Transportation and through the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $500,000 each for the transportation elements associated with the I-49 and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard interchange project and to approve a city match of $125,000 for each grant.
 Fifteen, a resolution to approve the purchase of 12 Chevrolet Tahos from General Motors or its authorized dealers pursuant to Ordinance 6491 in the total amount of $562,891.68 and to approve a budget adjustment. Sixteen, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Fayetteville to...
 apply for you to for and utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds in the amount of 250 thousand dollars for the for improvements to like Fayetteville Regional Park trails and to approve a city match of $62,500 for the project I will entertain a motion to approve the consent agenda as read so moved second second second
 Okay, we have a motion and a second. Kim, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, looks like that passed. So we have a no unfinished business today.
 And our new business starts with one is a resolution to approve change order number six to the contract with Nelson Byrd Waltz LLC in the amount of $999,510 to provide professional landscape architecture services for the upper ramble and additional construction administrative services for the lower ramble in the cultural arts corridor.
 to approve a loan of $998,070 from the general fund for the Arts Corridor 2022 bond fund to be reimbursed when the bonds are issued and to approve a budget adjustment. So, Peter Nearingarden, you have this item. Thank you, Vice Mayor Bunch. And good evening, council members. I am attempting to share my screen here. Good morning.
 Perfect. All right. This contract amendment is with Nelson Bird Waltz, who is the landscape architecture firm for the final design phase of work on the Ramble project, which was the 2019 voter and for the 2019 voter approved Civic Plaza, the southwest corner of Dixon Street.
 Street and West Avenue on the parking lot across from the Walton Arts Center. As you all know, the Ramble is a downtown revitalization project to activate outdoor public space and create destinations and attractions to draw residents and visitors to Fayetteville's Arts Corridor. The corridor will showcase sustainable stormwater management, restore native ecosystems, celebrate local arts culture, enhance public space, and serve as a catalyst for additional downtown development.
 The corridor will also increase bike trail connections and improve the walkability of our downtown Fayetteville streets. The project was initially funded by a 2017 Walton Family Foundation Design Excellence Grant that focused on outdoor spaces, sustainability, and encouraging visitors to the downtown and to our trail network. Landscape architects Nelson Bergwaltz were hired in June of 2018 to begin schematic design work for the project.
 The schematic design was guided by robust public input on the project and was completed in January of 2019. In April of 2019, the citizens of Fayetteville voted yes on a $32 million bond for the construction of the project.
 The Ramble project creates an arts corridor that links cultural institutions in Fayetteville, including the Walton Arts Center, Theater Squared, Nady Mom's Studio, the Fayetteville Public Library, and the University of Arkansas' growing art and design district in South Fayetteville. The project has been broken into three design components that you can see on the screen.
 Bond Phase 1 in pink and gray include the Fay Jones Woods and the replacement parking deck components of the project. Once the replacement parking deck component is complete, work on Phase 2 of the project, which is the Civic Plaza on the West Avenue parking lot at the southwest corner of Dixon and West. The blue area on your screen can begin construction.
 The pink portion of the map, again the Fay Jones Woods area, includes ecological restoration in the Fay Jones Woods, stream restoration along Tanglewood Branch Creek through the woods, rehabilitation of the Razorback Greenway, pedestrian improvements along West Avenue, and enhancements of Tanglewood Park. Work on this first phase began in September of 2020 and will be completed later this summer.
 The gray portion of the map includes the 330-space six-story parking structure at the northwest corner of Dixon and West Avenue. The parking structure will include a new police substation, transit hub, retail space, and will protect the adjoining historic structures. The parking structure broke ground in January of this year and will be completed next spring. The parking deck serves as replacement parking for the final phase of the Ramble project.
 As mentioned, the final phase of the Ramble project, the blue portion on the map, is the Civic Plaza at the southwest corner of Dixon and West Avenue. It will be constructed on the surface parking lot across the street from the Walton Arts Center. The detailed design for the Civic Plaza is being guided by the schematic design work that was completed back in January of 2019 and approved by the voters of Fayetteville in April of 2019's bond vote.
 Construction of the Civic Plaza is scheduled to begin once the replacement parking structure is complete. I'd now like to pass the microphone over to Nathan Foley with Nelson Bergwaltz, our landscape architecture firm, to talk a little bit more in detail about the Civic Plaza and our design process. Great. Thank you, Peter, and thank you, council members, for the opportunity to address you tonight. We are extremely excited to move into the next phase of design on the Civic Plaza weave.
 I've thoroughly enjoyed working with the city for over four years now, really, and engaging with all of you and the citizens in this kind of robust public input design process that for the civic space has been a little bit on hold as the rest of the pieces kind of come together. So if any of you have had the opportunity to go down to phase one and view the construction that's nearing completion, we're very excited about that opening up this summer.
 And the Civic Plaza, really the visuals and the intent of the project that was approved and voted on by the citizens of Fayetteville is represented here on this slide. And we've worked in intervening phases to really bring that a little bit more into detail, both in dimension and materials, but also as a way of checking our budgets and working within the price constraints that we have on the project itself.
 So, Peter, if you could go to the next slide. What we're working towards, this is a schematic design plan that most of you have seen, is making sure that we're moving this into the next phase of design and getting really into the detailed coordination and design to make this a reality. And there are the main components are all there that we've been working to preserve
 the changing economic realities of the world of construction right now, as well as time passes, and each of those components becomes a little bit more detailed and clear. Next slide really represents what our tasks are going forward into this next phase of design, which is
 looking at how to bring all of those components into fruition. And what's represented in the underlay here is what we've been working on in the interim from that schematic design phase into design development to try to get all of those components really, you know, into fruition. And so, we're really looking at that.
 So we have a lot of coordination to do with our consultants as well as with the city and adjacent property owners. There's a large portion of Dixon Street streetscape as well as the intersection with West Avenue that will be diving into in more detail. And then we have a lot of coordination with the city and adjacent property owners to do with the construction document phases.
 So, this contract amendment will see that through its construction phase and the oversight that our team will provide. The green components are mostly the intact public space components of the Civic Plaza. The green components are the public space components of the Civic Plaza. The green components are the public space components of the Civic Plaza. The green components are the public space components of the Civic Plaza.
 that we'll be moving into really without any issue from adjoining properties. And then of course in blue, we have the two development projects that have been proposed from the beginning of a building on the north and a building on the south side of the site as sort of brackets for the public space. And as those teams come online, we'll be coordinating, right,
 up to the face of those buildings and sort of the apron that's outlined in blue, but making sure that all of the components that the citizens voted for and have seen in the schematic design plan and those renderings are intact and ready to be constructed by the end of this period. So that's the overview of this next phase. Thanks.
 Thank you, Nathan. So just in summary and conclusion, the contract amendment before you this evening is for the detailed design of the construction drawings for the Civic Plaza and for construction administration of the plaza and adjoining streetscapes work, as illustrated by the image on the screen that's in your packet.
 The design and construction administration work will all be completed by landscape architects from Nelson Byrd Waltz along with their team of sub consultants during the six month design phase and ensuing nine month construction phase on the civic plaza. With that I'll be glad to answer any questions. Does any member of the council have any questions for Mr. Nearing Garden or Mr. Foley?
 Seeing none, I'm going to open the floor to public comment. Susan, do we have anyone on Zoom? No, ma'am. No, ma'am. Is there any member of the public wishing to address this item that is in the council chambers tonight? Okay. Seeing none, I will close the floor to public comment and bring it back to the council.
 i mean if we suspend the rules and go to the next or do we have the original on the okay i'm if we accept the ordinance as written so what you pass the resolution you mean oh it's i'm reading the wrong one in front of me yeah i mean if we pass the resolution second okay we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution kim would you please call the roll yes scroggins yes yes
 Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Looks like that passed then. Our next item is, if I get my glasses here, resolution to award bid 22,
 and authorize a contract with Benchmark Construction of NWA Inc. in the amount of $2,995,576.53 for the construction of the Archibald-Yale Boulevard Improvements Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $300,000 and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 And I believe Chris Brown is the staff member with this. Yes, thank you. Can everybody see my screen? A nice blurry picture? Yes. Everybody got that? Okay, great. So I wanted to talk just a little bit about the history of how we got to this point with this project. So starting in 1941, this is a photo of the downtown area of Fayetteville that is,
 the area of Archibald Yale. And then superimposed on that same photo is the corridor for Archibald Yale. So you can see how it cut through some of the grid system that we had prior to that date. And then this is 1954 with the completed corridor that's been basically the same ever since as far as the lane widths and that sort of thing.
 So the discussion as we went into our mobility plan in 2016 was what could we do to try to remedy some of the damage that was done way back then to recreate that fabric while also keeping the
 the vehicular traffic moving through. So the recommendations that came out of the mobility plan were to look at intersection improvements at Rock and College and also signalization at South Street. And this shows signals at both locations. Ultimately, that's not what we ended up with, but the point is there were proposed improvements to both of those intersections.
 And then the mobility plan also recommended to change to a three-lane cross section from a four-lane. The three-lane section provides better safety, reduces rear-end accidents, and with the configuration of the street, provides about the same level of service that the four-lane does. So then in 2018, we had our
 the planning process for the 71B corridor. Similar recommendations came out of that modification of Archibald Yale for shared use path on one side, signalized South Street intersection, and then the redesign of College and Archibald Yale intersection. Ultimately then as we went into the detailed design, this is what we came up with and I've got this segmented, so you can see a little bit better detail.
 So this is MLK down here. As we come into that intersection, that intersection remains largely the same, five lanes. We are proposing to change the southbound right lane into a right turn only lane, which I think actually will improve the operation at that intersection.
 So that's about the only change here. And then as we come up to School Avenue, we drop a lane. It'll become a left turn only. And then continuing to the north, you'll have a single travel lane, again with a three-lane section.
 So moving on up towards the South Street intersection, we just continue that three lane cross section. This hatched area is a buffer area, so it'll just be striped. And then we'll allow for multi-use space next to the curb along this area that could be used by bicycles, pedestrians, whatever, but it's mainly striping to create that buffer area.
 And then at South Street, again, proposed signalization, a little bit of curb work to create the pedestrian crossings. But obviously the signal will create those gaps for pedestrians along with gaps for vehicular access across Archibald Yale. And then moving up to the intersection, this is what's proposed here. And I've got a little bit more of a blown up area there.
 So just to kind of go through this, as you're coming southbound from College Avenue, turning left onto Rock Street, you'll have a dedicated left turn lane and can make that left-hand movement. Or continuing further to the south, there will be a dedicated left turn onto College Avenue heading south. This is a landscape island. We'll provide some pedestrian refuge and also kind of separate those movements.
 So coming north on College Avenue, you will be able to come up to this location. And really, because of the way this landscape island is and this through lane remains in the left lane, this will be essentially a free movement. You just have to watch the traffic here as opposed to trying to look back to the south for the traffic coming up Archibald Y. L.
 So really think this is going to be a nice safety improvement here. We do have a lot of accidents here because of the current five-way intersection. I think the last thing, and Councilmember Whitaker mentioned signage. That was a really good comment because as we looked at the signage, I do believe we probably need some more signage than what we have in the plans to –
 get the traffic in the right, in the correct lane as they're heading to the south. So left lane must turn left. Signage is needed in advance of this intersection. We'll get that taken care of and get that included in the project. So that's all for the history of the project. Just to go through the construction contract, this is a bid from Benchmark Construction, just under $3 million.
 It's about $2.68 million to the transportation bond program, and then we have a little over $300,000 worth of water and sewer work to be done with the project. So that will come out of the water and sewer fund. It is a 270-day construction contract time, and so 270 days for substantial completion. The bulk of the work, of course, will be at this intersection and then at South Street
 The remaining work is an asphalt overlay and then just a restriping of the entire street. So most of the time spent on the project will be at this intersection that you see on your screen. That's all I have. I can answer any questions. Do we have any questions for Chris on this? Chris, I have one question. How many times was, wasn't this bid several times before we got an acceptable bid?
 Yes, actually this was the fourth time that we bid the project. So it was, it's not an easy project and it's one that we really had to try to work on, work with and listen to what our contractors were saying about construction time and all the other difficulties that they had and we tried to get that included in the contract
 Okay, thank you. I know several members of the public have mentioned, well, why isn't this already done? And, you know, stuff like that. And we know you approved it. Why didn't you? Why haven't you done it yet? And I just wanted to make clear that that this process had taken quite a long time to get an acceptable bid. Do we have any other questions for Chris, before we take public comment?
 Okay, I'll go on to public comment then Susan. Do we have any members of the public on zoom now ma'am? Okay Any member of the public in the council chambers that would like to address this item? Okay seeing none I'll bring it back to the council. What would council members like to do with this madam mayor? I don't know when I'm supposed to ask a question of Chris, but I have I I
 And go through this intersection several times a day. So I've got a couple of questions on the Rock Street, or at least a single question on the Rock Street College. I sometimes are going north on Archibald Yell and then turn right onto Rock Street. And I'm a little concerned that the people coming north on College...
 How are you going to handle that, Chris? You know, I watch them now, but it's a little bit easier to turn right onto Rock Street now than I think it looks like it's going to be with this diagram. Have you looked at that particular turning movement? We have, and we talked about that extensively, whether that needed to be restricted. Ultimately, we decided that it did not need to be restricted. Okay.
 That landscape island will be there, but it'll be something that both the person sitting in the College Avenue northbound lane and you as a driver coming up on Archibald Hill will be able to see each other. And the person who stopped there who has the stop sign will have to wait for that traffic to clear. So it's...
 I'll say that's probably one of the weaker parts of this intersection design. And again, we did talk about that during the design process, that there's something we needed to do with that. But we feel like the sight distance is adequate there and the drivers will be able to recognize and see those cars that are turning as they're pulling into the, as they're coming up to the intersection. Okay, thank you.
 Chris, would you mind just, you know, just for the council show, like if you were, based on what Kit just asked, if you were to take your cursor and move it north on Archibald Yale, if he's heading north on Archibald Yale and it's going to turn on Rock?
 Sure, yeah, this so this is the three lane are not triple deal. So turning onto rock would be making this movement here. So the cars that the one you have to watch out for the vehicles that are coming up this way and are heading north. And they have a stop sign and a stop bar. It would be behind the point where the car turning right would be so that will avoid that conflict.
 Okay, and right now we have, when you come up College Avenue, you just kind of hit a
 basically a wide spot in the road where you kind of turn left or right. It makes it more distinct. Does it move the intersection on College up, or does it keep it in about the same location? Well, the biggest thing about the change is that now, if you're coming up on College, there are two lanes of travel coming up on Archibald Yell.
 And you have to make, you know, look behind you essentially to make sure that you have a lane that's free. So in this case, it will be, you'll have this lane here that will be a free lane.
 You'll be able to get into that lane and not have to worry about the cars that are through traffic that's coming through here. Again, I think what Kit's talking about is somebody's making a right here. That will be something that drivers will have to watch for and make sure that if there is a car slowing down and turning, they will have to make sure that traffic clears. Okay, thank you.
 Um, also on the striping, is it just going to be, you said it could be used, that area could be used for bicyclists. Um, is, is that going to be marked as such, or is it just striped off? Um.
 like it's shown on our diagram here? Yeah, this area, the hatched area, is what we're calling just a buffer zone. That'll just separate the vehicular traffic from this multi-use area here.
 And that is, that's the area that could be used for pedestrians or for bicyclists. There's a narrow sidewalk along at least portions of this, so pedestrians could use that sidewalk as well. But again, it just creates a space there. If we go back, you know, several months or maybe even a couple of years ago, the discussion was that the majority of this
 We really want to just be what we're calling interim improvements. So we don't move curbs. We don't spend a lot of money on side paths or anything like that. So that if there is a, you know, does become a concern about traffic congestion or other things, then making changes to the.
 to the area between the curves would be easy because you just remove the striping and make those adjustments. I don't believe that'll be a problem based on the traffic studies that we've done and just the way that the traffic patterns are. I think that this layout is going to work really well and better than it does now in some cases, but it does give us the flexibility of that
 that canvas of Archibald Yale to be able to use it differently if we decide we need to in the future. Okay, thank you. So at some point in time, that demarcation line could be, if we deem that it's appropriate, we could put something more permanent in there, like a curb or something to protect cyclists. Okay, thank you.
 Yeah, I hope we can put a curve there at some point. But I understand that that's not what we're looking at now. I recognize the concern of going up Archibald Yale, turning right on the rock and running into people going north on South College. Yeah.
 That would actually be a pretty low speed collision because they're kind of going in the same direction and assuming they're not running the stop Stop sighing there That shouldn't be as bad as some of the collisions that we see now. I know that People want plans to be perfect And you know I do too but sometimes plans
 just it's far better. And then having a fender bender is a lot better than sometimes what we see, which is head-ons. I think this is a reasonable plan. I know some people are concerned about the three lanes that we're trying to make cars impossible in Fayetteville.
 The capacity at three lanes is higher than this is used now quite a bit. So we're not lowering capacity below what current usage is. So I'm not concerned about that. With three lanes and the stop in the middle, hopefully this is actually a far safer section of road. I know I've gone up and down Archibald Yale and sometimes you're going with like a semi or a,
 dump truck and it's scary. So hopefully those semis have to stop somewhere in the middle or not going 60 miles per hour, which I believe sometimes they kind of get going up there. So I think this is a reasonable plan and I look forward to the changes and the people that are concerned. Usually you want roads in odd numbers.
 Even is usually not the best. So even going down to three is better than four because you have a turning lane. Not having a turning lane is really unsafe. So I think this plan is far better than what's there.
 i'll make a comment vice mayor um uh thank you chris for showing the history i think that really that's a big part of kind of why we're having to to revisit this um that it split this these two neighborhoods and so i'm glad to see a lot of places for pedestrians to cross and come go up to the neighborhoods to the to the square and go to the library
 So that's very good. Hopefully this will all kind of help the traffic to be more friendly to pedestrians because we want to have both. And right now it seems to be very vehicle related and driven. So we're trying to find happy middle ground there. And it sounds like there's some flexibility if we needed to make some changes, which I really like. Yeah, I come straight up South College Avenue regularly.
 And so I am thinking that, you know, I'll be looking for you, Kit, as I go. Because I already do look from the left. I'll be watching out, too. So we'll look for each other and stopping there. But at least we won't be back in that already way back there. It's harder to see. I think since we'll be at the top of the hill, it'll be easier to see. So we're looking for you, the person turning left into Rock.
 And then, of course, pedestrians. So there's going to be a lot going on. But hopefully we can all slow down and look for each other.
 and modify as we learn about the intersection. So thanks, Chris, for your hard work. And I know the bidding process has been a lot, and we just need to get this done because the construction costs are just going up. So we're glad to see that. And you'll see some beautiful murals coming along there if you haven't already seen them. So that's all I've got. Okay.
 Thank you so much, Chris. Looking forward to this being more safer and greater accessibility for Ward 1 and the entire city of Fayetteville. Thank you so very much. I have a comment.
 Yes, I echo my colleagues' congratulations on this. And I do think that I don't think anybody really likes Archibald Yale the way it's designed right now. So I think this is great that we haven't changed any of the curb cuts.
 And if it doesn't work out, we can make some adjustments. But hopefully, it sounds like there's been a really good, dedicated thought, long-term thought process and design that's gone into this. And hopefully, this will allow for that greater connectivity and safety that we all desire. So thank you all. If there aren't any questions, I'm moved that we spin the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. Or is there a resolution?
 It's a resolution. This is a... Yeah, and I think this is a resolution. I move that we approve the resolution. Second. So we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Kim, would you please call the roll? Biedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. I believe the resolution passes then. So our next item, we have three items that are all kind of related to one another and in a similar area, but our next item is...
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-014 located between west velda court and west rutledge lane in ward one for approximately 0.61 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation and i'll read the ordinance be ordained by the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, and I believe Jonathan Kurth, you have these items? I do, Vice Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. As Vice Mayor noted, these next items are all related. I'll go into their differences here in a little bit and how I'll describe those to try and make it as clear as possible.
 This property, the next two items properties are all located in Southwest Fayetteville. They're located within Ward 1. The properties are all located along Rutledge Lane, which is the crossing of the T of Oak Road, which is found about halfway between Shiloh to the east and One Mile Road to the west immediately across from Walmart's, the Martin Luther King Walmart's eastern entrance.
 Once you head north on Oak Road and take a left on Rutledge, which has no outlet, you can find the next three items almost in a row right there. Again, just for clarity's sake and to put it into context, none of the properties are contiguous, which is why they're being considered separately. For clarity's sake, the first one we'll be discussing tonight is C3, and that's rezoning 22-014.
 Taking the item through our typical considerations, the first is whether the property in the request is a compatible rezoning proposal. The applicant's requesting to rezone the property, which is RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre to NC, neighborhood conservation.
 The site is currently undeveloped and it's most notable for some topography characteristics that I'll go into shortly.
 But back to the land use compatibility question, this area is a study in stark transition from the heavily commercial Martin Luther King Corridor to several pocket neighborhoods, including the Rutledge subdivision, which this property is within, and some other smaller subdivisions to the west.
 um and then looking at that it makes a a very difficult assertion of land use compatibility considering what's along mlk but given how separate it is from mlk both in the nature of the character of the neighborhood and its access staff does find the request to be compatible what's being asked for is an incremental increase in the density allowance for single-family homes in a neighborhood that is purely single-family homes
 From a long-range land use standpoint, staff found the request to be consistent with our future land use maps designation or residential neighborhood area. You've heard me say many times that residential neighborhood areas are intended to support a wide range of residential uses. Staff does not think that would be appropriate here to build potentially more intense attached residential or very high density residential. Again, it's a no outlet street.
 But that said, it does have access to a lot of amenities and it is in a location where some incremental density allowances are appropriate from our opinion. And in that regard, we certainly do consider it to be an appropriate infill location. There is water and sewer in the area. Of course, there's multiple grocery store options, Walmart, Aldi nearby. Centennial Park is to the north. There's transit located on MLK.
 The only reason that score is not a 7 is because the property does have a fairly significant slope on it, which represents a negative score on that, which again I'll get to in just a
 Some other issues that we wanted to draw council's attention to is despite the property having some or having near proximity for sanitary sewer, it's not immediately in front of the property. So some degree of extension would be necessary as a part of the proposal from basic diagramming. It'd be about 75 to 100 feet, which is not an unfeasible amount of sanitary extension.
 A question that came up at agenda session and was discussed at the tour is also whether Rutledge could be connected to Velda, which is a street immediately to the west. When looking at it in an aerial, it looks very feasible, but it is worth noting when you consider the site's topographic constraints, such a connection would have to surmount a 25 percent or so slope between those two streets, which would be difficult.
 I always say nothing's impossible if you throw enough money at it, but this would not be one that would likely rise to the high point of city priorities to make that connection between those two neighborhoods, given how difficult it would be and the amount of land disturbance that would be associated with trying to make a connection that's safe and easy for vehicles to traverse.
 Otherwise, as I noted on the top of the presentation, this site's most notable for its topography as you head towards the southern end of the site. There are some notable drop-offs between 15 and 20 percent as you look southward.
 That's one reason that the applicant has proposed in-seat neighborhood conservation on this property. It would require the buildings to be located closer to the street rather than pulling them away in an attempt to minimize the amount of disturbance that would be done on the site. Otherwise, the only other item, other outside the tour to bring up was that we have received some public comment before the Planning Commission, but it remained inquiries, not statements of support or opposition.
 But on to the tour, there were four issues I wanted to touch on briefly for those who are not able to attend. The first and foremost that was discussed was the development potential, which is always something that the council is interested in, but it can be very difficult to suss out even on the smallest of sites.
 In looking at what that would represent, we looked at the old plat of the property since we don't have individual surveys. Most of our zoning requirements base what you can build on how much street funds you have. And from staff's review, it looks to be about a buy-write potential for eight houses between the three properties. This is what you see is lot 13 here is what we're discussing with this item and lots 12 and 16 are with the subsequent items.
 There are questions, of course, as always, about what other options there would be because we are always actively trying to promote attainable housing in Fayetteville. So a single-family home could have an ADU built with it. Again, that's capped on the number of occupants and its size, so it wouldn't represent the impact of a larger home.
 And similarly, there was a question about tandem lots. The council were called an amendment was brought through recently to make tandem lots and administrative approval. And given the depth of many of these lots, there was some question on what potential that there could possibly be for tandem lots.
 Now that's again similar to the other items it's difficult to answer without knowing details but I can say that there are inherent limitations in our ordinances just like there are for many items a tandem lot has to have the minimum lot area of the underlining underlying zoning district but a limit that is perhaps more impactful on tandem lot potentials is that the city only allows every parcel to be split up to three times to create four lots
 So taking lots, any of these lots for example, if you were to split them more than three times to create four lots, you would have to go through a platting process which is much more, is the most rigorous standard that the city expects of developments. It can require pretty significant street improvements, full drainage plan requirements, and full tree preservation requirements. So that tends to act as an inherent limit on the potential for those tandem lots.
 The other items, there's a question of tree preservation. On all three properties, the current requirement is 25 percent, and with either of the proposed rezoning districts, the requirement is 20 percent.
 There was a question on this specific item, whether there was a stream present on the southern end of the property, because given that slope, it's not surprising that water drains that direction. There's certainly not a protected stream, nor is there one further downstream. It's just a low-lying area that all slopes that direction. And lastly, during the tour, we were approached by two residents.
 One was the seller of the properties to the applicant, and she expressed no opposition to the request. She felt comfortable with what the applicant was proposing. Similarly, the neighbor across the street expressed a similar opinion. Both did have a strong preference to see single-family homes, though, built in this area, which again is what's allowed by right in these zoning districts.
 Finally, summarizing the actions by the Planning Commission, this did originally arrive to the Planning Commission with a request to rezone to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Staff recommended denial. Again, it's a neighborhood with no outlet and not great connectivity. We had concerns that that was too much, too fast, too soon. The Planning Commission felt similarly, and at the applicant's request, tabled it.
 So with this particular request, again, on the south side of Rutledge, the applicant came back with a proposal to neighborhood conservation, which staff is able to support. Similarly, the Planning Commission largely supported it, forwarding it to council with a recommendation of approval based on its location and infill attributes. The lone dissenting vote did have concerns about traffic and the ability to pull out on the Martin Luther King, especially during peak traffic hours and especially the left turn movement.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Ricky Hill is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. And do we have any questions for staff before we address the applicant? Is the applicant present? And would you like to add anything else to what Jonathan said? Okay, thank you. If we have any questions for you directly, we'll call you up. Thank you very much.
 So, do we have any members of the public on Zoom that would like to address this? No, ma'am. Okay. Anybody in the council chambers want to address this as a member of the public? Seeing none, I close the floor to public comment and I bring it back to the council. What would you guys like to do with this? Theresa? I have a comment. We had a really, really great tour yesterday. Thank you so much, Jonathan, for organizing that.
 This particular property has very steep slopes, as Jonathan mentioned over there. And it is a very, very small area that's flat. Houses are on both sides. I have some serious concerns about water being able to slough off those steep slopes into the houses that are on each side of this property.
 And my understanding is that right now with RSF4, they can build one house and they can have one ADU as it's currently zoned. But the neighborhood conservation would increase that to two houses. And I presume two ADUs also. But the ADUs are a presumption on my part. Maybe Jonathan could clarify if I have that correct. Okay.
 Yes, Jonathan. That is correct. Just as a reminder, given the ADU ordinance has changed a few times over the last few years, the house could have two ADUs associated with it, but again, you're drawing from a 1,200 square foot allowance. So if you did decide to do two, you could do 600 and 600. And again, there's an occupancy cap on how many people can be in there.
 for a developer to do too, it'd be necessary for the owner to basically live in one of those. So again, that's kind of those inherent constraints. I hope that answers the question.
 So I guess maybe I could bring it back to you. Just I'm a little confused, Jonathan. So if this passes with neighborhood conservation, there would be enough for two single family dwellings to be built there. And then each single family dwelling could have two ADUs up to those caps that we've changed. So basically four buildings. Do I have that right? That is correct. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. So I'm not going to support this request because of the topography and of my concern for the neighbors with those really steep slopes.
 I, you know, Councilmember Harvey was there yesterday and it was, I would say I was really surprised at the dramatic relief on either side. So those are my concerns just because of the very steep slopes and the close adjacent proximity of those other two homes on either side of it. Thank you.
 So, um, yes, so thank you, Jonathan, for having us out. On this particular piece of property, yes, it was incredibly steep. However, I do, I'm very excited to be able to apply our new standards for stormwater management because it's going to be a really interesting design.
 Because it's literally the top of a hill. Strange. I don't know. We were thinking could it have been infield dirt that just got piled up and piled up and piled up. Because you're literally on a mound. So I'm not sure. But, you know, with our new...
 ordinances Are all those stormwater is gonna have to be contained and it should not go to these houses that are both in three directions And there isn't a stream back there So I was hoping there could be maybe we could do some something for the storm the stormwater toward the stream and then think about the protection there so I
 It's going to be a fun design project to keep all that storm water there. But it is a really good infill area. I mean, there's no trees, so that was good. I was looking for that in this particular piece. And so I'm okay with it. Yeah.
 There's a lot of property there the person who who sold the property was there and she she had bought it And I could tell probably as an investment for her future. So that was very interesting I'm trying to think what else we talked to the neighbor Right next door to this piece of property and she said she supported it as long as it was a single-family home So that was a question because I wanted to double check that so with NC can apartments potentially go in there or in
 Not by right. A conditional use permit would be required for anything attached. Okay, because that was her main concern. She said, I just really don't want apartments. I'm okay with single family houses. Those are the only comments I have currently about this particular piece of the property. Jonathan, what about something like a duplex? How is that viewed in NC?
 That would also require a conditional use permit. Any attached residential, it allows single, three, and four family, but all by conditional uses. Okay. Okay. Well, what would we like to do on this? So we're considering each piece separately, correct? Each one separately. Each one separately. Okay. Well, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. So we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Bedecker? Bedecker?
 No, Scroggins. Yes, Bunch Yes, Turk. Yes, Hertzberg Yes I'm sorry. Was that yet? Was that yes? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Thank you Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon. Yes Okay, the motion passes and I'll read it an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZ and 22-0 1 4 and
 located between west belda court and west rutledge lane for ward one or in ward one for approximately 0.61 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation before i make a another motion to move this on i did there was one other thing i wanted to mention so i was looking to try to figure out how to connect rutledge to vera you know those two it is
 there's a fence there there's somebody's property right there i mean it's weird it's like it's like a two-story difference there's just no way so basically it's gonna let stay a t um as another comment so that was the other thing i was thinking was the density there and when they come out of oak
 Walmart's across the street. I don't know how they'll ever get there. I left at 530 and it was it took me 30 minutes to get back to my house on 15th Street. I made all right turns and I talked to the neighbors about it. I said, you know, how do you get out of here when it's high traffic? And they all do that. That's just what they do. So the people that move there are gonna have to that's gonna be their lifestyle.
 But anyway, so unless someone else has any questions, maybe we suspend the roles and go to the third reading, third and final reading. Second. Second. Okay, we have a motion to go to the third reading. Kim, would you, second. Kim, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-014 located between West Bell to Court and West Rutledge Lane in Ward 1 for approximately 0.61 acres from RSF for residential single family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Do we have any additional comments? Well I do have a comment before we go to the final vote.
 I would like to see some residential development in this area for sure, but again due to the slope and the configuration of the streets, I can't support it. I think the sheer velocity of the water that's going to come down on both sides has to be considered and we do have standards to control that, but I think in this case the volume and the velocity and the way that it would have to travel due to the topography is
 i i think it it would be hard to manage so i can't support this okay thank you do we have any other comments before we have our final vote uh this is mike um i i i concur i
 I'm pleased for some rezoning in this area, but because of the constraints for accessing MLK, I can't see myself supporting all three requests. I know we're only considering this one. I just wish I knew which one was of the greatest interest and value to the applicant, but I do have concerns that
 There is a threshold beyond which additional density on Oak Road trying to get out has become a safety hazard. And that's the one concern that I have. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments? I have a quick comment for, just with Council Member Whitaker. So we'll see in the other two. There's a, there's a, the, the.
 I don't know which order it's going to come, but it was very wooded. There were a lot of trees, so it was a wide variety of trees. So maybe Jonathan will talk about it. This one was very clear. So my personal opinion, to not have to remove any trees, this would be my preference. And then whenever we get to the one that has all the trees, because they're going to have to clear it, essentially.
 Those are my thoughts. I think that's the next one, Sonya, maybe. I have a final comment, too. I just want to remind the council of, I don't know if you all received a lot of flooding calls last week from that huge rainstorm, but I certainly did. And we continue to have, you know, a lot more rain than we usually experienced in the previous hundred years. So, and we are in climate changes here.
 And what it is predicted and what it's kind of showing is that we're going to have more rain. So my concern about this one is only because of the slope and the proximity of the neighbors. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Teresa. Teresa, you know, in talking with Alan Pugh about this, and he's not here tonight, but I believe his, you might, you know, refresh my memory on this, but I believe his statistics say,
 Showed that we're not really getting a lot more rain. It's just coming in these more extreme Rain events. We're not that it's basically kind of a similar amount of rain. It just comes more at one time so
 Well, the data that I've reviewed has said that we get 6.9 more inches per year on average for the last 20 years compared to the instrumented record from 1900 to 2000. And certainly this year, we've gotten a whole lot of rain. So I agree with you. The intensity is higher, absolutely. But I think the volume is also higher, too, from the data that I've reviewed. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, the data I've reviewed shows it's about the same. I've looked at it brain gauges, so It's it's happening faster when it does happen Okay, Kim, would you call the roll for the final vote then on this item? Whitaker Yes Scroggins yes, yes Turk no, I
 Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon I just need to explain myself I'm gonna vote yes on this specific parcel but the project as a whole you'll see that I will not support the other two so yes on this one so the ordinance did pass okay thank you all right our next item same area is this item
 An ordinance to, this is number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-015 located at West Rutledge Lane and South Oak Road in Ward 1 for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre.
 And Kit, you have this also. Yes, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas...
 Hereby changes the zone classification of the property zone on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single family 4 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family 18 units per acre. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, thank you Kit. Jonathan Kurth has this item as well. I do, thank you, Vice Mayor. Here we go. As I noted, I'm not going to go into full detail on this request since many of staff's considerations were similar, so it may be more important to counsel and important for the conversation to describe what's different between this request. This proposal takes us to the north side of Rutledge, one parcel to the east, which you can see indicated here.
 The property is currently undeveloped, but as Councilmember Harvey noted, it is largely within tree canopy as opposed to the last item, which other than fence row trees, was largely devoid of canopy.
 The request on this varies from the last item in that the proposal is to rezone it from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Similar to the last item and with similar considerations, staff does find it to be compatible. It's a zoning district that again does only allow single family homes by right in a neighborhood that is characterized by only single family homes
 Again, without going too much into detail, since these findings were very similar as well, from a long-range plan standpoint, staff did find this request to be consistent with City Plan 2040 in our future land use map. The only major distinction in this regard is the infill rating you'll see is somewhat higher and that reflects the somewhat less degree of topography on the site.
 And also this falls just within the bubble of our infill maps designation of Ramey Junior High. But of course it's worth noting that it is east of Interstate 49.
 The issues on this one are less so. From staff's perspective, the sanitary sewer is immediately available along the property's frontage. No extension would be required. Similar to the last item, no public comment had been received prior to the Planning Commission, but it was only inquiries.
 When it comes to that topography consideration, you can see here across the entire length of the site, it's about a 10% slope. The property slopes gradually upward from Rutledge to a ridge just north of its northern property line before falling into Tharp Cemetery, which is along Old Farmington Road.
 And similar to the last item as well, this request was also originally proposed as RAU, which staff did not support considering it to be too much. The request was revised to RSF 18 rather than neighborhood conservation, which would have the net effect of allowing a third lot and third house potentially where neighborhood conservation would only allow the potential for two.
 Staff's recommendation was the same along with the Planning Commission's vote, which was 8 to 1 recommending in favor. Again that dissenting votes largest concerns are about traffic and access on the MLK. I'm happy to take questions and Ricky Hill is still here as the applicant on the item. Thank you. Okay. Does the Council have any questions for Mr. Kurth or the applicant Mr. Hill? Okay. Okay, Mr. Hill.
 Ricky Hill, the Southfield Land Surveyors. The applicant, Nick Corder, is very aware of the development standards and the drainage and everything that he has to comply to and to ease your mind they will be single-family homes. There's no duplexes or anything else going in but he's aware of all the standards that he has to comply to during the development stage so if it's a concern he will meet all the city standards.
 Okay, thank you very much on that. So do we have any other questions or anything from Mr. Hill? Okay, so do we have any members of the public on Zoom that would like to address this? No, ma'am. Okay, any members in the council chambers that would like to address this? Any public? No. Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. How would we like to...
 to address this item. Madam Vice Chair? Yes, Mr. Kerr. I'm sorry, if I may have one more moment. There was one item that was brought up at the tour specific to this site that I did not touch on. There was a question about the canopy because, again, this property is almost...
 completely within canopy. There was a question on the age of it and perhaps its quality. I did get a chance to talk to forestry and look at the aerial imagery for the property. And it's difficult to tell because it falls within one of our larger gaps in our historical aerial imagery. It does appear that the property may have been cleared when the subdivision was planted in the 60s or 70s, but all indications are that the trees that began growing then are likely many of which the same ones that are there today, if that helps. Thanks. Okay, thank you.
 I have a question for you, Jonathan. What would be the, okay, so on this one it's RSF 18. What are, you know, I don't have, what would be the things that could be built on RSF 18?
 By right in RSF 18, you can build a single family home. You can build an accessory dwelling unit associated with it. And that's the extent of by right allowances. Conditional use permits are allowed for duplexes, just like they are in RSF 4. And of course, cluster housing, which is a conditional use in all our single family districts. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes. So I wanted to make a comment on when Teresa and I, Councilmember Turk and I got to walk on this property. So one of the things I always try to do is wear my hiking boots when I go on these tours because it's, you know, you don't know where you're going and going in the woods.
 So I had on the sandals and did not sink. So this, it was an interesting soil thing that was happening in this particular piece of property. Even though it has that slope, it's somehow the soil was dry-ish. You know, we're talking about yesterday afternoon. Yeah.
 And so that was very interesting. The trees were, I mean, it was, there was a lot of trees, but they were large or old. I didn't see any particularly old ones, which is why I was asking that question about the canopy and if it was a significant, if we got rid of some of the trees, would that be a significant consideration from the forester's perspective?
 So, I'm open, you know, to how they could fit some houses in here. It's really nice that it's so quiet because the...
 The cemetery is in the back there, so I could see somebody just having a quiet little place there. Amazingly, it was fairly quiet, even though it was 530 to have that little space. So with our housing shortage, you know, I think somebody could have a really nice place to live amongst the trees. And hopefully, you know, we get that 20, so 20% space.
 canopy that's correct 20 was the number which is a lot but it's very deep lot but those those are some things i i've experienced while i was walking on the tour thanks okay thank you well the um well i just want to be sure i'm clear on this it seems to me like the biggest difference in what caught my attention is this would allow three single family homes with 380 us and so it's
 potentially going to have more impermeable surface because of that. Also, as I mentioned before, the streets in this area, I just don't see how this is going to put further strain on them. It's not an easy in and an easy out. And, of course, whoever's buying and building would have to deal with that, but it is a point of safety the way that I look at it.
 But it is really it's just the difference is that three units rather than two compared to the other lot. That's correct If there aren't any more questions I move these we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second, okay. So we have a motion and a second to go to our second reading Kim Would you please call the roll? Whittaker. Yes
 Scroggin? Yes. Unch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone invitation RZN 22-015, located at West Rutledge Lane and South Oak Road in Ward 1 for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. I've got a question for Stan. How are we getting only 3 units per acre?
 because if it's 18 units per acre 0.43 acres that seems like more than three or a mile off no you're not wrong on the density calculation that that is only one piece of the zoning standard it's also based on street frontage for each lot and the the historic survey we pull of the historic plant we pulled uh suggests that they could subdivide it three times or subdivide it twice to create three lots that have adequate street frontage which is uh 30 feet in the rsf 18 zoning district
 But if they wanted to run a street down it, which would probably be cost prohibitive, but they could. And then, I mean, they would have to go through, you know, like large scale development. Yes. And I think the same, again, we're getting into some specifics.
 the scenarios at this point given the required street widths and that these lots aren't terribly wide if you were to put a street down it i think it would end up consuming so much land that you might end up with just three maybe four houses facing that street as opposed to facing rutledge okay thank you okay do we have any additional comments before we go on to our final vote
 Mr. Mayor Munch, I have a question for Jonathan. One of the conversations we had was with the zonings that were being proposed, the homes needed to face the street, right? Is this one of those that does it, or is it? The building needs to front the street. Yeah, we can't.
 There's a state statute that says we can't make them put their door towards the street But the zoning requirement does require the building to be closer to the street than pushed away from the street like a more conventional Zoning district like RSF or it has built two zones as opposed to setbacks if that helps Yes, I believe that's what I was trying to get to so I think that Was sort of goes with some of the things that Sloan was getting to You can't call it make like a little cluster thing back there. I mean, it's very it's fairly narrow and
 We were wondering about that as well. There are no questions. I think this is the third reading and we're ready to go. Which one are we on? We're actually on the second, so we'll need to suspend the rules one more time if you want to take a vote tonight. Yeah, I mean, we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. So we have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Ledecker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Yes.
 Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property described, re-zoning petition RZN 22-015 located at West Rutledge Lane and South Oak Road in Ward 1 for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF-4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF-18 residential single family, 18 units per acre.
 Okay, anybody else have anything they'd like to add on this item before we go to our final vote? Alright, I got another question. On the three units, if they did NC, would it change the frontage to where it would be less than three that you think would be viable?
 It would, again, depending on that historic plat for the property, which assuming it does accurately represent the lot widths, NC would limit it to two units as opposed to three. Yeah, and then two ADU behind it if they wanted. Okay. I think I know how this vote's going to go, but I wanted that to be clear. Okay. All right, then. Thank you.
 We're on our final vote now. Kim, would you call the roll please? Whitaker? No. Scroggin? No. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Yes.
 Mr. Mayor, the count is four to four and it requires five affirmative votes to pass, so this ordinance has failed. Okay. Thank you very much then.
 Okay, on to our next item, which is also related, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-016 located at 2914 West Rutledge Lane in Ward 3, excuse me, Ward 1. I'm losing my words right now.
 Ward 1 for approximately 0.41 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. KIPP.
 Thank you. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre.
 Section 2 is at the City Council. The City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map for the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan Kurth has this item for staff as well. I do. Thank you, Vice Mayor. This property is in the same area. We've remaining along Rutledge Lane. Again, taking the three parcels that are under consideration in these three items, we have moved to the last one, which is the northwesternmost, due north of the first one and skipping a lot from the last one to the west.
 I will be very brief on this one again because our findings are very similar. From a land use compatibility standpoint, staff is in support of the request. This one is from RSF4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Given that single family designation remaining, we found it to be compatible.
 This is similar also in a long range planning standpoint. Our findings were almost identical. I'll forego going into that in detail. Again, this one kind of splits the difference in issues. It's about a half wooded, half unwooded piece of property. It is developed. There is a single family home towards the northern half of it. A sanitary extension similar to the first item would be necessary to extend that existing line on Rutledge a little bit further to the west.
 The public comment has remained neutral prior to the Planning Commission. The topographic constraints on this one are even less than either of the previous two. I noted the most significant slope on the property, which basically runs through the house on the northern half. It's just shy of a 10% slope. And to Council Member Harvey's comment on the first item, or the last item about the soil not appearing to be wet,
 It may be that these soils are more appropriate for development And this is just in the context of this not being designated as hilltop hillside overlay district I have not noted that any of these are in the HHOD because none of them are That's usually a two-part Designation one has to do a slope and one has to do with soils So that may be why it doesn't fall within the HHOD. So I thought that was worth mentioning
 And again, the request was originally to rezone the RIEU. After staff's recommendation of denial, the commission tabled it, affording the applicant the opportunity to revise their request to RSF 18. The commission's vote of eight to one was identical with similar concerns. And again, the only public comment heard since the planning commission was during the tour by the two neighboring property owners who were comfortable with the request as long as it remained single family in nature.
 and I'm happy to take questions. And again, Ricky Hill is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Does the council have any initial questions for staff or the applicant? This is Mike. If I may ask, Madam Vice Mayor, for RSF 18 allowing three single-family homes, what zoning the lowest increase in density would allow for?
 flag or tandem lot on this site.
 A tandem lot is allowed currently. The front half of the property could be developed with a house, and as of the most recent amendment to the tandem lot ordinance, a lot behind it could be administratively approved if it met the typical standards of having adequate water, sewer, vehicular access, emergency access, and ability to put their trash containers and recycling containers up the street. Thank you.
 Any other questions before we go to public comment? Can I see the gradient map again please? Looking where that water would go. Is there a concern about the house that is to the west exacerbating? I'm sorry, could you clarify the question? The house to the west exacerbating drainage problems on this property? The other way around. If we were to put more houses on this.
 That's a good question. It depends how they lay out the property. With the city's most recent revisions to the stormwater standards, any impervious areas above 1,200 square feet would trigger some sort of site improvements like bioretention ponds to help catch that rainwater. It's not exempted as it once would be for a single-family home. So I can't confidently answer that based on what I see today.
 okay uh yeah i mean i would love it we're building houses under 1200 square feet people need them but i assume that that's not what's going to happen it will trigger that so thanks for the clarification yeah councilmember scrogg and it's pretty there's a lot of woods and this was kind of flat and a little bit high and of all of them it just seems
 seems friendly there's a house already there to the development and storm water management hopefully the storm water management new ordinances will make sure all that water stays stays there and as a if I may I Samira it's a point of clarification on council members Scroggins previous comment the land immediately to the west is also owned by the applicant he acquired that recently as well so I don't know if that makes any difference in your considerations or not
 Okay, thank you, Jonathan. I appreciate that. Any other quick comments here? Okay. Seeing none, I'll open the floor to public comments. Susan, do we have anyone on Zoom? No, ma'am. No. Anybody in the chambers? No. Okay, I'm closing the floor to public comment then and bringing it back to the council. We're on the first reading. What would you like to do with this? I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to take it to the second reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No.
 and normally it's a rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-016 located at 2914 west rutledge lane in ward 1 for approximately 0.41 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre do we any additional comments on this do we want to go on to the third reading yes i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third final reading
 i will second that so we have a motion and a second to go to the third reading kim would you please call the roll peter yes scroggin yes hunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-016 located at 2914 West Rutledge Lane in Ward 1 for approximately 0.41 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre.
 Do we have any comments before we go to our last vote? I have something to say. I wish I had been in town to go to the tour because what I know about the property, I always tell people if I hear a compelling argument I have the right to change my mind and I have heard a compelling argument on this so even though my initial thought mainly due to the streets.
 It's tough over there. And the safety, as well as the topography, especially on the first one, I've had to reconsider. So I will be supporting it because I do feel like I've heard a compelling argument that has changed my mind.
 So, Mark, are you saying you would like to change your vote on the last item? No. Okay. All right. No. Just checking. Okay. I would love to make a comment or just say something to response to Council Member Kenyon. So it was really helpful to go on the tour. So the houses are very spread apart. They're very large lots.
 smaller homes on a kind of 70s style, like real skinny long. So when you go in there, it feels very open and wooded and just older homes. And you can't really see all of them very much. And so
 It's kind of nice to think of bringing a diversity, a mix of housing to that area. And I think if somebody had children, they'd be able to have somebody on that, you know, have kids on that street. It's kind of quiet. It's a dead end. She said a lot of people do turn around. That was another concern. A lot of people come and they try to cut through, think they're going to cut through. So I like that it's bringing a variety of options.
 housing and dense their houses houses to that one side so that's my those are my thoughts why I'm supporting it so that's all I've got okay thank you any other comments Kim would you please call the final vote on that Weedeker no Scroggins yes hunch yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones
 Yes. Kenyon. Yes. So that ordinance passed. Okay. Thank you very much.
 Our next item is an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-018 located at 1320 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 for approximately 1.2 acres from RSF4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 Excuse me, sorry, I skipped you there. I apologize for that. All right. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, thank you, Kit. Now, Jonathan Kurth. Sorry about that.
 Thank you, Vice Mayor. This property takes us out of the Rutledge neighborhood from Southwest Fayetteville to Southeast Fayetteville. This property is located in Ward 1. It's on the southern slope of Mount Sequoia as it terminates in Huntsville Road. As you can see here, it's on the north side of Huntsville Road about equidistant between Happy Hollow to the east and Morningside to the west.
 It is due north of where Erica Avenue intersects with Huntsville Road. The property is currently developed with a single-family home with an unusual arrangement near Huntsville Road that appears to be possibly a former service station, but it's been difficult to determine as we look at it.
 uh the request before uh council tonight is to rezone the property from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban staff finds the request to be both compatible with existing land uses and consistent with long-range plans from a land use compatibility standpoint
 There's a wide range of uses, especially residential uses in the area. There's a mixture of single family homes, attached duplexes, multifamily homes in the area as well as services as you move especially further east towards Happy Hollow Road. On a long range planning side of things, again, we did find this request to be consistent.
 The future land use map calls this area out as residential neighborhood area. As opposed to the last three items, we do feel like this is an appropriate place for additional density and intensity. It's on a major transportation corridor and a link between East Fayetteville and downtown. We feel it's an appropriate infill location given its access to water and sewer along its frontage in proximity to the fire department, which is immediately to the east on Happy
 Similarly, it's not far from Dock Mashburn Park to the southeast. Where staff did have more considerations were a bit beyond the compatibility, land use compatibility and land use plan consistency standpoint. This began first with topography. Again, juxtaposing it with the last three items, this property is within an area of a fair amount of slope.
 But it is within the hillside hilltop overlay district, suggesting that that's both the result of slope and the soils on the property. And I drew an exhibit here where you can see the slope from Mount Sequoia comes from the northwest and goes southeastward across the property, ranging from about 15 to 17 percent, depending where you're looking on the lot.
 On an access management front, specifically talking about traffic danger and traffic congestion, staff did have some initial concerns when we began reviewing accident data along Huntsville Road. There are a decent frequency of accidents further east, especially where Sherman intersects with Huntsville.
 Ultimately, staff came down on the side that we felt this property in rezoning would certainly increase the potential for additional traffic, but we did not feel it represented a potential traffic danger. This is largely based on our development standards for access management, which would likely see this site remain having a single driveway like it does today with the potential to have more entrances and exits if it were to be developed with additional housing.
 And lastly, we've not heard any public comments on this item, either before the Planning Commission or at the Planning Commission or since the Planning Commission. So I'm not sure why I have that grayed out like that. I apologize. I think I used a template from a previous presentation, but I can verbally describe it. Staff does recommend in favor of this item. The Planning Commission did so unanimously as well. They forwarded it by a vote of nine to zero to the City Council recommending in favor of it.
 They felt that their location and the zoning district were appropriate. And after a description and discussion of the city's access management standards, they felt that their request would be appropriate and not contribute to any concerns about traffic danger in the area.
 With that, I'm happy to take questions. And Dawn Martins is the applicant for the item, but I'm not certain that she's, I don't believe she's here in person tonight. And I don't know if she's online either. I was not able to have a direct interaction with her prior to the meeting. Okay. Susan's shaking her head no that she's not online either. Okay. So do any comments from the council on this? I have a question for Jonathan.
 Jonathan, could you explain a little bit more about the access management if this is approved with RIU? Would there be no allowable additional curb cuts or what are the potentials there? That's a great question and it is a tiered answer. I realize I'm guilty of giving you a long-winded answer, so I'll do my best to keep this one as simple as possible. Our access management standards are all about the...
 the type of use proposed on a property and the classification of street that the property is accessing. So the higher classification of street suggests a higher volume of traffic, which suggests that there should be fewer curb cuts on that street to reduce the number of interactions and place them at a very predictable place where there's hopefully not a rise that impedes vision. So taking this particular piece of property
 It's located on Huntsville Road, again, which we classify as a neighborhood link, which is our former terminology was a collector street. So it's a mid-tier street if the property were to be rezoned and were to be redeveloped.
 uh and given its uh approximately one to two hundred feet of street frontage it is likely that would only be allowed to have a single curb cut because our standards on uh streets like huntsville road is that you have to have over a minimum of 100 feet of curb cut separation
 between a just between curb cuts if that makes sense and typically on a property like this we'd like to see it be placed as close as possible to Erica Avenue again creating that kind of predictable interaction with the street and a public street does that answer your question councilmember Turk
 I think so. So theoretically, if this was approved with RAU, the existing driveway could be, I guess, moved or the curb cut could be re-centered, but it would still only be one curb cut because of the width of the frontage. Do I have that right? Yeah.
 That is correct. I've not had an opportunity to evaluate it as it relates to other curb cuts. It's possible that, again, given this property has about 100 to 200 feet of frontage, that there could be two on the property. But given how close the curb cuts off-site are to this property, it is very likely that it would be just one. Thank you, Jonathan. I appreciate it. Any other quick questions here?
 Have I asked for public comment on this one? I don't think I have. No, but there are no more people on Zoom. Okay, no people on Zoom. Anyone in the chamber? No. Okay, so no public comment on that. I'll bring it back to the council members. This did used to be a gas station because I know that. Little bitty tiny one there. So any uh any other comments on this item?
 I think just one real quick comment, just, you know, thinking about it as the second tier street and just thinking how that growth is going to happen and seeing RAU. I noticed that it's two and three family homes, cluster homes. I think it's going to be a really great place to put more housing so that people can get to the access road there. And of course, we have the hilltop, hilltop housing.
 overlay district so there'll be a lot of protection for that steep area right that's different it's going to be different that half of it is hilltop right
 Right. Correct. The hilltop hilltop hillside overlay district does have some heightened standards. I mean, the most prominent ones when we discuss it with the public are about tree preservation. There's five percent additional canopy requirements. But the one that usually people pay attention to in the pocketbook is it requires much more robust building footings to address those expansive soils that can potentially damage a more a smaller building footing.
 So currently there's only one building on the property, is that correct? One dwelling. I believe there are several outbuildings. I think I saw when I was on the property, I think there was a garage and maybe one other outbuilding. I don't have any other questions unless other people do. Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Weedeker? Yes.
 Scroggins yes hunch yes Kirk yes Hurstburg yes Harvey yes downs yes yes and Norton's to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-0 18 located at 1320 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 for approximately 1.2 acres of
 from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban there aren't any questions I'm gonna be suspended rules and go to the third final reading second okay we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading Kim would you call the roll again Peter Kerr yes Scroggins yes butch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg
 Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-018, located at 1320 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1, for approximately 1.2 acres, from RSF4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Any other comments before we have our final vote?
 kim i just i'm sorry i just wanted to point out that um jonathan showed the slope that was over 15 on the west side so it is in the hillside hilltop uh district but slopes over 15 are really problematic so i i will not be supporting this um because of of that slope issue thanks thank you theresa any other comments okay kim would you call the roll please weed occur
 yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk no Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon no so that one passed I think that's our might be our last ordinance I think that is our last item do we have that is our last item is that do we have any announcements
 Yes, ma'am. Vice Mayor Bunch, I have two announcements. We did already mention last time, but it's worth repeating about our Gully Park Concert Series starting Thursday, June 9th. And just wanted to draw everybody's attention to that. Please look on our website for the calendar.
 Also, this week you'll find there'll be considerable intermittent traffic congestion areas around road closures with respect to the Joe Martin stage race. And so I can't get into all the specifics right now, but there is a media release out there on the main page of the website. You'll see the different maps and road closures, but it starts Thursday and it'll go through Sunday. On Sunday, most of the events will be in the downtown.
 but there are just real specific areas of town to avoid and I wanted to bring that to people's attention okay thank you Susan that's mayor may offer one announcement yes I'm sorry I don't typically do this and I should have asked miss Norton to do it before the meeting this is regarding the short-term rental ordinance I just wanted to offer a reminder to people that the
 end of the startup period is this Saturday the 21st when we need to have applications in so that they aren't directed to the Planning Commission so if you do have your application in by this Saturday you will have an additional 60 days to complete the review process or have any inspections or get any documentation that's needed and just wanted to share that with the public and you all thank you
 Thank you very much. Anything else from the council? Vice Mayor, I do have one more thing. We have a Ward 1 neighborhood safety meeting that has been requested, so we'll be doing that 630 on Zoom on Thursday night. So it's about safety in Ward 1, specifically around the Walker Park area. And that's on the city website? It's on the city website. You can get your Zoom link on the public calendar. Okay. Thank you very much. Anything else? Okay. We're adjourned.