Okay, I want to welcome everyone. I'm Mayor Ronald Jordan. City Council members and city staff and the public are participating in this meeting virtually and in person. Participation is of the utmost importance to the City of Federal, and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including joining in person at City Hall, joining virtually through Zoom, viewing through Federal's government channel online or the City's YouTube channel.
 If you're joining through Zoom, you must raise your virtual hand to request to speak during the public comment period. You can do so by clicking the raise hand option in Zoom online or by pressing star 9 on your phone. When it's your turn to speak, please unmute your microphone. For instructions on how to use Zoom, please go to the City of Federal website and type Zoom instructions in the search bar.
 If you're attending the meeting in person, you must sign up to speak by completing a public comment form. Forms can be found on the table outside the chambers. I will take public comment from virtual attendees first to give in-person attendees enough time to line up to speak. Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item. They may wish to...
 uh may wish to address being open for public comment each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by city council by unanimous content consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed or an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. The first order of business we have tonight is recognition awards presentation for fire department personnel for bravery and meritorious service to the citizens of Federal. Chief.
 Mayor, we can't hear the room. I'm sorry? We can't hear the podium microphone. Okay. Can you hear it? Can you all hear it now? No, sir. Well, okay. Can you hear me now? Yes. I'll stand back here and do my presentation.
 Okay, good evening Mayor and Council. So we're here to recognize our Engine One company and we've got Captain Bryce Gordall here. Raise your hand. Firefighter Jose Hatton and firefighter Travis Dover. Before I started I wanted to go over the stresses firefighting has on the human body. So this call came in at 3 a.m. One of the things that you know firefighters are often ribbed for is their ability to sleep on duty.
 But I'll tell you from experience, it's not like sleeping at home. I mean, you're right on edge all night long. When the call comes in, you wake up, you spring to action, you've got sleep in your eyes, you're just really not completely coherent, and you're trying to listen to a dispatch that may have life-saving information in it. You move forward, you get out of bed, you go to the fire truck, and you go responding.
 So this is what occurred that evening and at three minutes and 45 seconds after that tone came in, they arrived on the scene.
 They pulled a 200 foot hose. Now I don't want you to think of a garden hose. When somebody says hose, they think of a little garden hose. That's not it at all. It's about the size of a pop can, about the diameter of a pop can. It weighs a pound per foot when fully charged. It's under a great deal of pressure, so it's as stiff as a pipe. It's like dragging a pipe. Your engine one crew here, they drug a pipe to the second story.
 and started attacking the fire. And at the very same time, they also started searching for victims. They were able to find a victim and drag them to safety. So I wanted to bring them before you and recognize them tonight for their efforts, for their willingness to risk their own safety and their own lives. Another human is alive.
 So that's why we're here tonight. Mayor, would you mind coming down? Sure. Chief Watts, why don't you read that? Mayor, Council, Chief Watts, Federal Fire Department. I'm going to read what these certificates say for these awards this evening. In the early morning hours on November 21, 2020, fire units were dispatched to a report of an apartment fire at 601 West Center Street.
 Upon arrival, units found heavy fire involvement on the second floor of the building. This Engine 1 crew initiated a fire attack and a search of the second floor simultaneously. For their brave and selfless actions that resulted in lives saved, Fayetteville firefighters Bryce Skortle, Jose Hatton, and Travis Dover are awarded the Fayetteville Fire Department Medal of Bravery. Ladies and gentlemen, join me in giving them a round of applause for their brave actions.
 In closing, I would like to say one other thing if I could. The firefighting is a team effort, very much like football. Everybody has a role. Everybody did their part. Had the occupancy allowed, I'd have 24 people here before you this evening. But these were the gentlemen that pulled the victim out. And so I just wanted to say I'm very proud of everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Chief.
 Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda. All right, number one, approval of the May 4, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to accept a grant from the Walton Family Foundation in the amount of $385,000 to fund the construction of bicycle and pedestrian improvements along Cross Tech Street,
 Park Avenue, Trenton Boulevard, and Rebecca Street to create the Mission Razorback Connector and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve a payment of $199,940 to the Arkansas Department of
 of a side path along Weddington Drive at the intersection of Interstate 49 to approve project contingency in the amount of forty thousand dollars and to approve budget adjustment. This is a 2019 trail improvements bond project. Number four, a resolution to approve a payment of forty six thousand dollars to the University of Arkansas for the preparation
 of a benefit cost analysis by Olson Associates Incorporated for rebuilding American infrastructure with sustainability and equity grant to the U.S. Department of Transportation for improvements to Maple Street and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 trail improvements bond project.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with Washington County and the City of Springdale to improve public safety radio communications by establishing a county-wide system. Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $19,824.38, recognizing revenue from a cost share agreement with...
 HFI Fletcher LLC for a sewer main extension along a portion of North Fletcher Avenue. Number seven, a resolution to approve a 15-year water purchase agreement with Mount Olive Water Association. Number eight, a resolution to approve a one-year master service agreement with Badger Meters Incorporated with up to nine automatic annual renewals to operate the current and future...
 Advanced metering infrastructure with water meters installed by the utilities department. Number nine, resolution to approve an agreement to the memorandum of agreement with the University of Arkansas for installation and maintenance of street signs on certain roadways on or near the university campus.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $15,000 for the collection of household hazardous waste in Fedville. Number 11, a resolution to approve the conveyance of a permanent public cross-access easement to Robert and Vicki Parker
 for the purpose of providing public cross access at fire station number nine and number 12 a resolution to approve change order number three to the construction manager at risk contract the flintco llc for the police headquarters project any amount of 12 million
 $536,023 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is the 2019 Police Headquarters Bond Project. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. All right, thank you all very much. Moving along to unfinished business. Number one, in ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled ORPZ-10,
 D-21-003 for approximately 51.33 acres located at 2390 South Dead Horse Mountain Road to allow the development of 168 residential lots and one mixed-use lot. This was left on the second reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Herk? Yes.
 ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 21-003 for approximately 51.33 acres located at 2390 South Deadhorse Mountain Road to allow the development of 168 residential lots and one mixed-use lot. Okay, Jonathan what you have on this?
 Mayor, I don't have anything new or any updates. Last I advised the council, the applicant had planned a meeting last week with some of the neighboring property owners. I've not been made aware of the results of that, but I believe the applicant is present tonight and may be able to speak to that. I'm not sure if they're in attendance in person or online. I know Bradley Bridges is on Zoom, but I'm not aware if anyone's in the chambers as well. Okay, great.
 Would the applicant like to speak to the counsel? You have 10 minutes. Good evening. My name is Bob Hone. I'm an attorney. I practice law in Fort Smith. I am representing the applicant in connection. Well, with part of this case. The reason I have been asked to get involved is the bill of assurance, which I'm guessing you have all seen that specifies a density of 2.5 lots per acre.
 The problem is that that bill of assurance says that it shall be filed for record, but it was not. It's not in the deed records. So anyone acquiring an interest in this property from examining the deed records would never know this bill of assurance existed. The same applies to the publicly, generally publicly available records of the city of Fayetteville.
 If you look up in the place you normally would look up the zoning classification of this property as you're considering a purchase, you would find that it is zoned residential single-family four. You would not find any mention of the bill of assurance. That's exactly what happened. My client looked at this property, did his due diligence.
 thought he was buying a piece of property that was owned residential single family for had no notice no knowledge no reasonable means of knowing about this bill of assurance and Didn't in fact learn about it until after this process was initiated and mr. Rhodes Who was involved in the original? application that resulted in the creation of the bill of assurance and
 brought it to the attention of the Planning Commission and the parties that this Bill of Assurance existed and had been part of the zoning application that occurred five years ago. The reason I bring all this up is, you know, I'm involved obviously from the legal perspective, but that's not the reason I bring it up here. The reason I bring it up here is just the concept of fundamental fairness.
 My client purchased this property in reliance upon the information that was generally available upon a reasonable inspection of the public records. Now he's being asked to be punished, for lack of a better word, for the fact that this bill of assurance that the City of Fayetteville and Mr. Rhodes' client agreed five years ago would be recorded was not recorded.
 fundamental level just not right. And my request is that you consider when you're making your decision that this is not a situation where, you know, what should have been done was done.
 And my client's in a position he shouldn't ever have been in through no fault of his own. The only other point I'll make before I turn over the speaker, the microphone to Tom Henley, is to talk a little bit about compromise. I've been practicing law for 40 years. One thing it's taught me is that you're a fool if you don't explore the possibility of working out a compromise. My client has made a couple of proposals to Mr. Rhodes and his client.
 They have been stonewalled in response. Mr. Rhodes and his client have not made any effort to make any kind of a counteroffer or seek any kind of a middle ground. Again, I think it's disingenuous at best for Mr. Rhodes to be involved in drafting and agreeing to a bill of assurance that says this bill of assurance shall be filed for record, not see that it's filed for record, and then be in here refusing to budge even an inch off of the bill of assurance.
 It's just a concept of fundamental fairness that ought to be applied. Thank you. I'll turn it over to Mr. Henley now to address the details. Well, unless anyone has any questions. Well, you all have ten minutes total, so however you want to spot them. I'll let Mr. Henley do it. All right.
 Yes, six minutes left. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Alderman. Appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight. I won't really bore you with the history that I've talked about the past two weeks. You guys know we brought an RSA-4 development through and got it approved, and no mention of that bill of assurance came about. It turned out that after all the requirements through that approval process came to fruition, we realized that there was no way this was going to be financially viable.
 So we went to city staff kind of with our hand in hand asking can we please get some help and some ideas from the staff on how to develop this and make it viable. And what you have before you today is what came out of those meetings. What came out of the meetings with staff and what came out of the process that we've gone through with the Planning Commission.
 The density was staff's idea, to be able to come up with some creative ways to have a variety of socioeconomic viability in this project that people, all price points, or a number of price points anyway, could afford within the development.
 We believe it's a diverse development. We originally did not have any commercial component in the development. That was what came out of Planning Commission. They recommended that we added that to create kind of, I think the term they used was a rural hamlet, kind of a neighborhood community, encouraged walkability, that sort of thing. We, you know, back when this thing was first developed,
 brought through and rezoned with the bill of assurance was five years ago. If you look back five years before that, Riverwalk subdivision didn't exist, the development to the west. There were no homes out there.
 Five years ago when this zoning was approved with the Bill of Assurance, there were 18 homes out there. Today, there are 102 homes in Riverwalk currently being occupied and another 80 that are in a phase under construction.
 We do not really consider this sprawl. The way the area has developed around it, this is simply a development that complies with the adjacent zoning and we feel like is a good fit with that part of town. Everybody knows that Fayetteville has very little lot inventory. That if we can't get projects approved within the city of Fayetteville that
 range over all the socioeconomic ranges, those people are going to go to Elkins. They're going to go to Greenland. They're going to go to Farmington. And all those towns still use the city of Fayetteville utilities. It's not like because they're going to Elkins that we're creating some situation where we're taking a strain off Fayetteville's utilities. We're not. We just don't have that property tax base that they bring by living there.
 So what I guess in closing, really what I want to stress to you is that what you've got before you today is a culmination of really a collaborative effort between us, our client, city staff and planning commission.
 And this is where we wound up, and we feel like it's a great development. It's not where I ever thought this development would wind up, but we're really happy with what we've got before you today. And that doesn't even include all the money that my clients spent trying to bring it to this point. So we would certainly appreciate a favorable consideration, and I'm available to answer any questions you guys might have. Thank you. Thank you, Tom.
 What questions do we have from the city council for the staff or the applicant? I would like it if the city attorney can talk about the difference between should have, shall have filed the bill of assurance. What is that new information to us that it hasn't been filed, hasn't been filed? Was the lawyer misunderstanding? I would like some clarity there.
 Well, you know, no, that's not new information, and that was some sort of slip-up, I guess. I don't understand how that happened. Of course, when an ordinance is passed like this, I think there's notifications in the paper as well as having the ordinance itself filed in the county courthouse. City clerk keeps a copy of the ordinance along with the bill of assurance in her office that's available to the public at any time.
 However, you know it is unfortunate that it did not get filed in the circuit court as it was supposed to, so that it would hopefully have shown up in any title search. But really the issue here is whether this zoning is something the City Council wants, not what the previous zoning was.
 you can consider, I guess, what the previous zoning is, but really your issue is, is this a good zoning for the City of Fayetteville? Do you think this is in the best interest of the citizens and the City of Fayetteville to do this zoning or not? And that's really the issue before you rather than whatever the other history is. And so you have many factors you can look at, and I think that's what you should focus on is in whether it's compatible, is it in the best interest of the City or not? That's really your issue.
 Mr. Mayor, if I may offer a point of clarification, please. While Mr. Williams was answering, I had the opportunity to pull the ordinance that rezoned this property, and it does appear that it was filed correctly in January of 2016. It is a
 Not a short ordinance. It is about 44 pages long, but the bill of assurance is filed on page 39 of the 44-page document. So I can't speak to the level of due diligence that was done in the property sale, but this is available with the county and was filed with the ordinance. So it was in there. Correct. I'm looking at it right now. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. What other questions do we have in the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 All right, everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, please line up outside the chambers if you're not already in the chamber.
 and keep six foot distancing. Zoom comments will be heard first to give people time to line up outside the chambers. Please remove your mask only when speaking and please put it back on once you have finished. So who in the public would like to address this first? You have five minutes. Jason Teague. Yeah, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you.
 Yeah, this is Jason Teague. I live at 2492 South Dead Horse Mountain Road. I'd like to say again, I'm not opposed to development, but what is being proposed is just not right for this area, at least in everybody's opinion out here, townhomes and whatever. I was invited to meet with a developer to talk about our concerns, which I really appreciated, but
 It was pretty clear that they didn't matter because we're not in the city limits. As you all know, that we are surrounded by city limits. We did live in the Stonebridge subdivision for over 10 years, and we do still feel a part of that community. I don't think we should be penalized or not have a voice by having an opportunity to buy this land that we built on that joins this proposed area. I'm sure that we will be annexed in at some point and reestablished.
 At the same time, we are well within the planning area, so we should be able to have some kind of voice. My property line to the north, where the proposed second entry is to the subdivision, there was a comment made that there would be sidewalk only on one side of this road, and I assume that's because of the narrow width. If that's the case, I think that's a safety concern in itself. From what I've seen, most new city streets have sidewalk on both sides or even a trail.
 Also, I'd like to bring up the flooding that we have on Deadhorse down by the bridge. It happens multiple times a year. Generally, everyone out this way has to go through Stonebridge subdivision to get on Highway 16. I doubt those neighbors over there would appreciate another 300 cars, minimum, during those rain events. Anyway, I hope the council will vote no to this, and thank you.
 Okay, y'all, let me go through these rules again. On the way this is set up, the federal residents speak first, and then everybody that lives outside the city speak after that. So what federal residents would like to speak on this right now? You have five minutes. Terri Slavins. Okay, please give us your name and address. This is Terri Slavins. I live on 2488 Bidford's Mountain Road.
 I own the property that has shared the shared pond on it. I have several concerns about this development. First, I have never been contacted by the developer at all.
 what are they planning to do with my pond no one's told me that we have spent quite a bit of money to clean up the pond uh we have ducks geese deer heron um a pain to keep it cleaned up so we can enjoy the life the wildlife out here and i'm really upset that the investment that i've made on it will be ruined but the pond was the main reason we that what drew us to this property
 I've lived in Fayetteville almost my entire life. I have a business here. I have a local restaurant and I bought it in 1976 and I've,
 20 years i started working at it 1976 and 20 years later i bought it um so i bought this property me and my husband and now my sister lives with me and our plan was to retire out here we lived in spokes we lived in stonebridge for a little while and we loved it but there we
 Got lots of property building all around us, so we wanted some property that gave us a little bit of room just to spread out and enjoy life. So we are disappointed that that's fixing to be taken away from us. We love Riverwalk. We go there, we do our walks, and come back over here and have our privacy. When I built, we had a hard time getting the property to park, so we were asked to...
 We asked the city to allow us to be on the city sewer since we were already in sunny water. We were told it would be too much of a strain on the city utilities. I don't understand how one house could have been and 168 won't. I'm also concerned about the water problems which Jason Teague spoke about. My house was flooded many, many times over in Stonebridge.
 And it was expensive to replace my wooden fence. What assurance do I have that I won't be in this situation again? There is not a good zoning for this area. It is not compatible with any other neighborhood in these, right, all these cars going through Stonebridge. Every time it floods and the road is closed, which happens.
 Anyway, lastly, this is a beautiful natural area with so many trees and wildlife. It will be a shame and heartbreak to see all that go away. I hope you will oppose this proposal and thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, no more Zoom, but I have two sign-up sheets. Taylor Johnson. Hello there. My name is Taylor Johnson. I've been the general manager at Stonebridge Meadows Golf Club for the last eight years.
 I don't want to be repetitive, but obviously you can tell from the call-ins and comments that we're a little bit taken in surprise on the compatibility and the density issues that this development presents. My job is obviously to protect the golf course. Just because there's a development does not always mean it's good for the golf course. It's really tough to find an 18-hole.
 a great golf course in city limits. We're a unique pillar to this community. We support fundraisers, we host a lot, we donate to Fayetteville Youth Baseball, other city schools, we've been here for 20 years and obviously from our investments of well over 500,000 we plan to stay. So we wanna protect these investments and this is what it's come to. The golf industry is obviously booming, we have a good record of success
 so again we don't plan on going anywhere we also were able to provide recreation a sense of normalcy and some safe recreation during the pandemic we love being a part of this community we would hate to see any decline due to imposing developments again the neighbors obviously oppose it the surrounding properties have opposed it this this does not bring value to our golf course
 If anything, it's more trouble. But we would support possibly a more compatible, less dense development that would be willing to work with the golf course. Maybe we could work with them on the contours of the golf course or help with memberships or stuff like that. So we want a team effort for sure. So we would ask you to oppose this. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Robert Rhodes.
 Good evening, Council Mayor.
 My name is Robert Rhodes, Fayetteville resident, and I'm a lawyer representing some of the neighbors and the golf course as well. First of all, in regard to the settlement meeting or the efforts to settle, as Mr. Teague indicated, we were at the meeting, we listened, we appreciated the fact that after prodding, the developer finally sat down with us and met.
 Unfortunately, I would not agree with the stonewalling comment. Instead, what we got as far as an offer was for them to help us or for us to help them by subsidizing, by paying them a lump sum and subsidizing. Or if we wanted to, we could buy them out for three times what they paid for it. So it really wasn't much of a settlement offer. As a matter of fact, it was a no starter.
 So, and I would agree with Attorney Williams' comments that what this is really about is what does this, you know, what does the City Council wanna do as far as rezoning this? It currently is RSF4 and with the Bill of Assurance. As we've heard from Mr. Kerr, that Bill of Assurance is valid and so you, you know, if you don't rezone,
 It's still zoned and it's still zoned very appropriately. I know I've sent you two letters and I'm not going to read both of those letters. I really hope that you had a chance to read both of them, but I want to just hit a few highlights. I think maybe probably one issue would be the city's integrity. You know, I think when
 and I think some of you all were on the council or were involved in the city, when that bill of assurance was accepted. And it wasn't 15 years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago. It was five years ago. And although perhaps this developer wasn't aware of it, the other landowners were aware of it. The golf course owner was aware of it. People knew about it. They were aware of it.
 four landowners made their decision based on that zoning. The 2.5, which means less density, obviously, than 3.5, and the fact that it's RSF4, so it's not commercial and it's not townhomes. So again, I would ask the city council to think about, okay, couple that.
 with the future land use map of 2040. It calls for this area to be rural residential. A bill of assurance limiting it to 2.5 is a whole lot closer to meeting the definition of rural residential than the 3.5 or what this developer wants to do with it if his rezoning is passed.
 But instead, I would ask you to leave the zoning as is. It will be developed. Somebody will develop it under the current zoning. And it will be much more compatible with the golf course if indeed it happens at a future date. I'd also ask you to think about your own staff's report. The second finding in the staff report indicated that the proposed zoning is not necessarily justified to accommodate development of this area.
 The 2.5 acres from the bill of assurance is much more in line with the sensitivities of the area. Your staff also made a finding, number three, that said the rezoning the property will significantly alter the potential population density in this area.
 They made another finding, number five, where they wrestled with the question of whether the zoning is justified or necessitated by a peculiar circumstance, such as would be impractical to use the land or any of the uses permitted under the existing zoning classifications. I would say that it absolutely would not be impractical to use the land for what it is currently zoned at. In regard to the easement.
 I think in my letter I indicated that the easement had a bit of an issue and that issue is it's about 300 or 400 feet off if you plot it. And at the end of the day, if we walk out of here today because of that... Time. Time. Thank you. I'll be available for questions. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 okay if you're in the chamber you can just come up and and and just queue up to speak please give us your name and address thank you mr mayor members of the council city attorney williams my name is jim pilkington and i am resident of fable and i live in the stonebridge subdivision oh probably a mile or less from the location that you're talking about we've heard a lot about different things that i don't know a whole lot about but i will tell you that
 I do know about the traffic situation in that particular area. We moved out there a year ago, and we normally access our home by going down Dead Horse Mountain Road, turning left on Goffs, and then going to our particular home. When we moved out there, that was an asphalt road with the center stripe.
 and with white lines on each side of the road on Dead Horse Mountain Road. Now where that ended, I don't know. I do know that there's a hill directly south of the intersection of Golf Mountain and Dead Horse Mountain Road that's not very far away, where they built a new subdivision that's still being developed at this particular point in time. And I don't know how many more houses are supposed to go out there.
 But you can go down there and you can go to Strawberry Park. I know one thing. If you hit that road at the wrong time, you get folks flying over the hill coming off of the south going north on Dead Horse Mountain Road, and you may get T-boned. I know when you go to the intersection of the highway, 16, I think, that's the road, and Dead Horse Mountain Road, if you cross that road,
 When the green light shows up, you're allowed to get run over too. Because that's happened within the last year, and I've seen it and I've experienced it. I know if you go to the other side of Stonebridge Mountain, you cannot cross the road getting out onto Highway 16 without taking your life in your own hands in a lot of different areas. So we don't need the additional traffic. And two.
 I don't know who's responsible for Dead Horse Mountain and where it ends and the county begins or where the city, but I know one thing. When we moved out there a year ago, we had a center line and we had white lines on each side. If you know anything about that particular area, you'll also know that that is very prone to fog and you don't have any idea where you are, except if you're in the middle of the road. Thank you, sir. I hope you'll deny this. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is the third and final reading, so it's time to wrap everything up here, council. So what final comments do we have from council? Suggestions or things you all like to discuss here, because this is the third and final reading. Okay. In that case, carriage, please call the roll. Erksford? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No.
 No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Turk? No. Okay. Thank you all. Y'all failed. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you all. Let's move on to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-035 located southeast of Morningside Drive and Hustle Road for approximately .66 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Hertzberg yes Gutierrez yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Fudge yes Turk yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21035, located southeast of Morningside Drive and Huntsville Road, for approximately two-thirds of an acre, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services. Okay, Jonathan.
 I have nothing new or updates on this item, but I'm available for questions. I believe Jesse Fulcher was the representative for this item at the last meeting. I don't know if he's possibly present in the chambers. I don't believe he's attending online. So we don't have a representative for the applicant then? Unless he's there in person. Do we have anybody, Susan? Thank you. All right. What questions do we have from the city council about the rezoning?
 for the staff. Mayor, I have a question. Sure. Jonathan, at the agenda session you followed up on a question I had at the prior meeting about a trail requirement which was proposed but not ultimately required as part of the phase five of Park Meadows. So this question is a follow-up to that. If
 the applicant were to modify their entitlement to take a greater advantage of the community services zoning on this parcel and the adjacent parcel to the north, at that time, would planning staff and the Planning Commission reconsider the off-site improvements that may be required, such as the trail? No.
 Certainly a possibility. I think if any of the trail were to be considered, it would likely be the portion along Huntsville Road. I don't know that based on what's being proposed with the scope, if it would be appropriate to revisit the trail running north-south through the site. I think there'd also be a potential for a larger assessment for the traffic signal being considered from Morningside and Huntsville, yes. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Any questions? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, folks, please line up outside the chambers if you're not already inside the chamber and keep six feet apart.
 Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. Remove your mask only when speaking. So who would like to address this first by Zoom on this issue? Okay, who in the public would like to address this? Is this in the chamber or just outside the chamber? Okay, I'm going to bring this back to the council then.
 This is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. What discussion does the council wish to have or action? Will we suspend the rules and go to the third reading? I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes.
 Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Herk? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21035, located southeast of Morningside Drive and Huntsville Road, for approximately two-thirds of an acre from NC Neighborhood Conservation to CS Community Services. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? Okay. Taryn, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Number three, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-036, located at 216 and 224 North Fletcher Avenue and 227 North Summit Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres
 from rsf4 residential single family 40 units per acre to rsf18 residential single family 18 units per acre this was left on the first reading I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading so move thank you we have a motion second to go to the second reading Karen would you please call the roll Hertzberg yes Gutierrez yes Jones yes Indian
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Judge? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, it is described in the Rezoning Petition RZN 21-036, located at 216 and 224 North Fletcher Avenue, and 227 North Summit Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. Okay. Jonathan, what do you have on this one?
 Thank you, Mayor. I don't have any updates on the request itself, but I did want to give the council a brief summary of the tour that occurred on the property yesterday.
 The main topic, as probably not a surprise, that some of the council was drainage. In the 1970s, I believe it was, there was a culvert that was installed about halfway down this property on the uphill side along Summit that emptied into the middle of this property. If you saw it on the aerial, it's not very visible here. But if you've driven by the property, notice there's a pretty long ditch that's been dug at a diagonal through the site where the property owner tried to
 Correct the issue that resulted from that city project and has seen a pretty concentrated amount of stormwater coming out along Fletcher to the west. Other questions that arose either from a council member in attendance or two residents that were there involved parking. Currently, there's not any parking allowed on Fletcher.
 If parking were to be proposed on the street, it'd have to be wide and somewhat or it'd be accommodated with any houses that are being built. A similar concern was shared along Summit Avenue, which is more narrow than Fletcher and has no sidewalks.
 It's possible that any development on that side of the street would require either a curb and gutter or sidewalk or possibly a small amount of widening to ensure that the fire department access could get through there and vehicles could get by each other without anybody having to leave the road.
 Additionally, there were some very detailed development questions. I think the applicant did their best to answer those where they could with what they know. They did talk about how they wanted to lay out four of the eight houses proposed facing Summit, four facing Fletcher. The aspiration was to place those on Summit as close to Summit as possible to afford a bioswale between the two tiers of houses.
 There was proposals, questions about driveway locations where the applicant shared that they intended to have the ones on Summit access the street directly, whereas those facing Fletcher would be potentially shared amongst themselves. And then there was some conversation about the aesthetic of the units, but at that point in the conversation, the applicant did not have a lot of additional detail to share.
 Other than that, I'm happy to take questions. I encourage anybody who participated in the tour to share their perception or experiences. Thanks. Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes. I'm sorry, Mayor. I believe Mr. Max Mahler is available online. Okay. Max, would you like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Can you hear me? Okay.
 Yes, we can. This is Michael Mahler. I'm here on behalf of Max. I'm just here to say thanks for everybody. Thanks for your time. And I'm here if you have any questions or any further comments. Okay. What questions do we have in the City Council? Or the applicant or other staff? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person folks that are not already in the chambers, please line up outside.
 keep six feet apart zoom comments first to give people time to line up remove your mask only when speaking who would like to address this first by zoom William Cawthorn they go ahead hi I think one sec my husband wanted to speak Michael you wanna come in here can you all hear me yes yes okay where our names on the zoom got mixed up I'm also high-fiving God
 Hi, this is Michael Cawthon. We live at 222 North Summit, which is across the street
 from the property in question. My wife sent a letter to the council this afternoon, and I'm gonna assume that you've read that. And, but just very briefly, I wanna mention that, some of our concerns living across the street and some of the context have to do with the kind of historical stewardship of the property, which has been not good.
 And, you know, we're talking about three, historically, three duplexes or six units and are concerned that these problems will be exacerbated through time.
 the property on. And we are looking at the cost of the property as more properties are added. And also our understanding is that this is the very first development for the property on. But that having been said, I want to be constructive and there are three asks. One of which, the first of which was addressed sort of at the top and we appreciate that. Which is related to infrastructure. It's a very
 And there's one light on a street that's about two tenths of a mile long. And then, of course, there's the water issue. Our understanding is that on Sequoia, a lot of sins have been committed. The current, as was mentioned, the current...
 and we are looking at the future of the project. The first solution for that has been just a huge gash sort of made in the property which we understand was stopgap and we also are sympathetic to the fact that the water problem wasn't created by the current owner slash new developer. So that is kind of more of an ask for the city. We would like to see some better assessment and plan for that. The second ask is we would like to see a good architect
 We don't want control over that. We're not asking to have veto power over that, but this is their first development. The history is the history. We would like to see someone reputable, which would give us a lot of comfort. Finally, the third ask is we'd like to see some plans. Again, we're not looking for veto power. We're not looking to weigh in and tell the owner what they should or shouldn't do. But it would be very comforting to see something
 you know, concrete in the way of a plan of what they intend to do. And with that in hand, we're all for, with those concerns addressed, we are all for the property to be improved. Frankly, there's nowhere to go but up.
 and we would also we're also not opposed to having more people on the street we're very much in favor of that uh we we love living here appreciate your service and i know you have a difficult job thanks for your time i want to add that i'm going to raise my hand separately even though we're on the same room because we have both properties 194 summit and 222 so i want to add a few comments after this okay thank you all who else would like to address us bruce wilkins go ahead
 Hi, this is Bruce Wilkins. My wife Laura and I live at 230 North Summit Avenue, which is directly across the street from the proposed development. I have submitted my concerns to the staff and also to my two council representatives. And, you know, I don't really want to go back through all of those. Um,
 But I would like to say thank you for giving me the opportunity to just maybe briefly summarize my concerns tonight. You know, really, as a resident here, I would like to see maybe more emphasis placed on the well-being and the safety of the established residents. Seems like, you know, maybe I shouldn't make these assumptions, but it seems like there's a willingness just to
 Grant carte blanche to the developers who are looking to, you know, drastically increase density and traffic in our neighborhood. And, you know, I really agree with everything that Michael just said. And I want to, you know, I want to support this.
 And I'm not completely opposed to change. You know, I understand that sometimes change is necessary and it can be a good thing. But, you know, really step back. I think we can all agree that a change from RSF 4 to RSF 18 is a bit drastic. And the amount of traffic and the safety concerns and the infrastructure concerns on Summit Avenue just –
 really give me pause. So that's really what I'd like to say. In its current form, I would say that Laura and I probably oppose this development. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mr. Cawthorn has his hand up again, but it might be somebody else. I don't know.
 yes hi thanks sorry we we messed the naming up so i apologize about that this is jenam arcane as i mentioned we own both 194 summit and 222 summit i wanted to add on a few things the confusing item is that she is signed up with the other person's name who spoke first
 but they're sharing the microphone. So she's a different individual with another message. OK. It doesn't let me change the name. I'm so sorry about that. It's fine. I just need to know exactly where we were. So would you restate your name, please? Yes, please. Yes. Yeah. It's Janem Arcan, spelled K-A-N-E-M, and last name Arcan. OK. Go ahead. OK, sorry about that. I just wanted to reiterate a couple of additional comments.
 This is not personal indictment on Mr. Mueller. It is purely observation of the state of the property, not for a year or two while he considered redevelopment, not for four or five years. For eight plus years, this property has been an absolute disarray. And while I think, as I understand it, it's not the council's job to take my word for it, the council has previously condemned another property of Mr. Mueller's.
 I feel like my neighbors, Bruce and Laura, have sort of adequately summarized this, but I'm curious why we keep giving people options to develop more real estate when they have not proven themselves worthy of managing the real estate that they already own. In the letter that I sent, I linked to a previous condemnation of a different property that Mr. Mueller had owned.
 by the city council, by all of you. I sort of also want to add that we have several, the traffic issue on Summit, and I'm not speaking to the Fletcher side of the street, Summit Avenue is 17 feet long. That's the width of a truck. Adding four properties, two cars each, maybe more, including a rampant deer problem, including a blind curve, we are creating a situation where there is going to be a traffic accident on our street, and it is going to happen because we do not have sidewalks, we
 We do not have proper lighting. We do not have proper signs. I'm all for infill. Let's do it. Let's get affordable housing in Fayetteville. But we have to be smart about it. We have to do it in a way that's safe for my kids. I sent some pictures. You can see what the property looked like before and how my kids run down my driveway staying on my property. Adding 10 new cars to that portion of the street is dangerous.
 And lastly, I sort of want to say, I think, reiterate what my husband said. There are no plans for this. And if, as demonstrated in the history of this property, there has been constant cutting of corners. There have been trees cut without, it seems like, without proper documentation. There has been trenches dug for flood purposes. There's been tarps put over ceilings instead of refixing roofs. I'm just concerned there's going to be a lot of corners cut in this property. And then instead of having one shackle in front of us, we're going to have four or five. Right.
 So, and again, not an indictment on Mr. Mahler. I think if he does this right, it's going to be great. And it's very necessary for Fayetteville. But I'm worried it's not going to be done right. And I'm worried it's going to not only possess or pose a safety risk for all of us, but also create a situation where we have major traffic concerns. There is another rezoning being done just if you travel down Summit to Fletcher, not the Fletcher that's being re-proposed for you all today, but a different Fletcher rezoning. So we're going to have...
 three major construction sites in a matter of 100 feet. Again, okay, but when you don't space those out properly, it's gonna create a huge headache for people trying to get to school, trying to get to work all day long. So that's all I wanted to say. And thank you again for the council for your time. I sent some pictures, I'm happy, and some links in the report that I sent. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Padma Viswanathan. Go ahead. Viswanathan, I'm sorry.
 We've got a time clock. Do I need the clock to be reset? Thank you very much. I am Michael Cawthon and Janem Arkin's neighbor. We own the next two properties to the south and have lived here 15 years. I'm only speaking up. I think that my neighbors have done an excellent job of summarizing the concerns, and I want to emphasize the ways that they have been insistent on the idea that we all support infill, we're all in favor of infill,
 you know, also pedestrian friendly development, but that it really is a the infrastructure problems no sidewalk, no lighting, no speed bumps, safety concerns in that way not being sufficiently taken account of the drainage question and also the fact that these two huge developments are seem to be happening virtually simultaneously.
 I think that if, you know, my great fear then is that if these things happen too suddenly, there's backlash. Things are not done properly. I don't see any problem with slowing down this second development. The first one's already going ahead in quite a...
 large, significant, visible way and assessing what the traffic situation is at that point. Perhaps, you know, especially because we really want sidewalks up here and we really do want to make this a safe place for people to live and to walk. I know that's one of the,
 driving forces behind this development is that we're within walking distance of downtown, but of course if the road is not made safely walkable, that is, as Janem has said, a potential disaster. So yes, again, very much in favor of thoughtful infill, very much in favor of increasing density,
 in our area. We all appreciate that. But maybe slowing down on this development to assess infrastructural needs in light of the existing approved development that's already going ahead at the end of the very same street, not you know, not 50 yards away. So that this can go forward in a thoughtful in a thoughtful way. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, so anybody in person that would like to address this on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have from the council on this? Questions, discussion, action? It's an ordinance. I just have a few comments from being at the tour, which thanks for setting that up, Jonathan, and for the few neighbors that did get to come by.
 You know, the water situation is probably one of the worst that I've ever seen. You know, that trench that was dug and then the drainage that went right through the center of the property. And so all of that needs to be dealt with and updated. I don't really see how...
 That's going to happen until we do address trying to figure out, you know, just revisiting the property itself. The entire so there's kind of two levels. And so I want to also talk about how, you know, we're going from four to 18, our support 18. It's a unique property because it has two frontages. So it's almost like two.
 There's a street, you know, that goes to the park that goes to Fletcher, and then there's a park that goes to Summit. So it sounds like a whole lot, which it is, but like half of it's going one direction and half of it will come the other direction.
 But before any of that can happen, the situation with the water is going to have to be dealt with. And he did say Mr. Mueller met with the city engineer to figure out how to deal with that water and to get it to go in the right direction. My feeling and some of the history that I that I gleaned from that meeting was that.
 The father had been taking care of it in the 70s, and now he's Max's that the son is now going to move forward with the redevelopment. And so kind of have some new management. I don't know if that's true. I don't want to put words in anyone's mouth, but he's willing to knows that the investment needs first the water situation needs to be dealt with before the redevelopment can happen.
 And the entire second level that was on Fletcher, there's a driveway and it was completely wet, slippery, slick. And definitely the two properties definitely need, they're almost, I don't know, they didn't look quite very livable to me. The water damage was significant. And the first property that was there just basically got...
 and had to be completely removed. Mr. Muller also mentioned that he's going to add some trees where that viral swell is between the two streets, and it's very steep, so that makes sense. So the water will go down a level, get drained around the properties, and then there'll be trees, and then the next level, which is further down, fletcher. So they don't cross into each other. So there'll be four driveways in one direction and four in the other.
 I think that's what I got. I just felt like it's going to be an improvement to deal with the water situation. And he mentioned some architects that I was very happy to hear about, but he was still trying to get his financial situation gathered. So he hadn't committed to any specific architects, but the ones he mentioned, I was very impressed with. So I think that would add on to Jonathan's comments. Yeah.
 Mayor, I have some questions and thoughts to work out. Jonathan, I've got a couple of questions for you about, that are centered on what they are allowed or required to do today if they were to rebuild and comparing those to what they would be allowed to do under the proposed zone.
 So I understand that the current zoning is four units per acre, but that the use of the property has been non-conforming with six units on it arranged in three duplexes. I have that, is that fact correct? That is correct. The duplex facing summit was demolished earlier this year. Do they have the rights to rebuild that duplex and maintain the six unit count on the property?
 They do not maintain the right to redevelop the property with a duplex under RSF4. If a building is voluntarily removed, if it's non-conforming, you lose that inherent non-conforming status that's protected. It is possible that they could
 I haven't done the math. I'm trying to think. I don't think you could create two outlocks facing summit with a single family on each one. But I think the potential could be there. The lot may be too small. I think the lot is too small to do that, though. Okay. I want to ask a follow-up, and this might seem a little in the weeds. If that duplex had been condemned and the demolition of the duplex had been forced by the city, would they be allowed to rebuild it?
 Our non-conforming chapter does not account for that. It's pretty explicit about natural acts, acts of God if you will, so I don't think planning staff would be able to interpret it to allow it to be rebuilt without a conditional use permit. Okay, I appreciate that. I have observed the property over the years and I think most everything that's been relayed to us is pretty fair in terms of the historical assessment of the property.
 So that leads me to my second question, and perhaps this might be more appropriate for the city attorney. To what extent can or should we consider the past management history of an applicant?
 Well, I'm not sure exactly what history you're talking about, except unless you're talking about not being able to maintain the house or something. And I don't really know that that should be much of a factor at all. Again, I think you're looking at.
 The basic question of is the zoning that's being requested, is that going to be reasonably compatible with what's there? Is it something that meets the long-range plans of the city and all the other zoning requirements? But the history of the owner, I think, is probably not something that I have seen in the law that the courts have said is something that the City Council can consider.
 I appreciate that clarification. That was something I needed to check out in here. I have one more question, maybe two more for you, Jonathan. If they are to redevelop the property under the current entitlement, would they be required at that time to improve the stormwater facilities on the property or to install pedestrian facilities?
 Likely not. There are some unique considerations because this is the hillside hilltop overlay district. So there are some heightened grading entry preservation requirements that you would not normally find with a single family home being built on an administratively approved lot.
 Similarly, I don't know that the city could require sidewalk improvements. Generally, those come with an increase in intensity. If taking a lot that has a home on it, if that home gets torn down and there's not a sidewalk and the next property owner builds another home, typically we don't have that rough proportionality to assert that they've had an increased impact over what was there
 I think under what the applicant has proposed, and perhaps answering a question you did not ask, to build eight homes would very likely have a standard for having to address drainage. That would require a platting of the property to create eight lots with eight houses on it. And that triggers those heightened considerations for stormwater quality and stormwater quality.
 And also potential street improvements are much more thoroughly vetted or we have a more legal capacity to fit higher standards of street improvements. Okay, one more for you. I heard you at the beginning say that in the past, the city had installed a culvert to collect stormwater from uphill and that the culvert emptied into this property.
 I didn't recall reading about a drainage easement or a stormwater easement that's held by the city in this property. Did I overlook that, or is this a case where we've put a problem onto this parcel without really a plan for it?
 That's a great question. That was probably somewhat irresponsible for me to repeat that. That's what I've heard from the applicant. And because it's in the right of way, it does appear to have been a city project and potentially the 1970s. I cannot was not able to verify that the city did that work or cause those negative impacts on the property owner. So that that is difficult to say whether the city did that, but it certainly seems like they have.
 And if you would, would you repeat the second part of your question? I didn't. Did I overlook a drainage easement? Thank you. Not that I don't, I've not been able to identify one on record. I've looked back at the, what easements are filed in the area and I don't see anything along summit. There's certainly not anything on the applicant's property that conveys that water from the right away to Fletcher. Okay. I think I'm going to take a second to collect my thoughts and then I'd have a comment about
 where my mind has tended after these questions. Thank you. I have a question for staff. Neighbors want sidewalks and street improvements. And my question is what kind of infrastructure improvements will be required at the time of the development?
 I think this gets back to the challenge that we often have when vetting rezonings is without a specific site plan or a specific unit count or how those units are going to be arranged. It is very always difficult to assess what may be required where. Further, there is a requirement in our unified development code that a project should only bear a amount of improvements that are relative to the size of the project.
 Certainly there are life safety priorities that take priority, such as whether the drainage issue has the potential to cause property damage or what we heard from some residents downhill where that water is running across the sidewalk of Fletcher and creating a significant slip hazard due to algae and other things growing there. I think to answer your question more directly, it's likely if the developer were to develop the property, like they have said, with eight units.
 i think some manner of sidewalk or at least curb and gutter on summit would be necessary it's possible that nothing would be required on fletcher but we'd have to take a closer look at that when we got a site plan to consider okay thank you thank you okay what other discussion do we have from the council okay so what y'all want to do we're on the second reading this is an ordinance anybody got an opinion
 Mayor, I'd like to make a final comment now that I've collected my thoughts. Well, now Matthew, keep in mind we're on the second reading right now. I know you're talking about your final comments, but this is the second reading. The first thing I want to do is motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Jones yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes Scroggins yes Fudge yes Kirk yes
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-036, located at 216 and 224 North Fletcher Avenue and 227 North Summit Avenue, for approximately 0.58 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay, Matthew. Thank you, Mayor.
 I haven't heard anything said tonight that was unfair. I visited the property many times on both sides of the street and at different times of day and during different weather over the past few years.
 And so I feel like I have watched it and have seen for myself that both the criticisms and the expressions of hope and opportunity that we've heard tonight are absolutely fair. And for me, central to this question that I've heard, and I think this is a question that feels familiar to me with a lot of these decisions, is
 Do we do plans before zoning or do we do zoning before plans? And I think that's a struggle for most council members, especially when we're looking at rezonings that are similar to this, where it's obvious that the density is not really the fundamental issue. It's the design and how the project is designed and then subsequently managed. And that's something that isn't captured very well in our zoning law.
 In Arkansas, I've been frustrated many times because Arkansas requires us to do zoning before plans. In fact, we incur potential liabilities if we try to discuss plans before the zoning is in place, if we insist on those conversations too much.
 And I think in the past, I've even been admonished for trying to get a better look at the plans by the city attorney. So I've taken that to heart. What I have heard tonight is that there's new management, even though it's a family firm, that the project is under new management. I've heard that the drainage issue was at least co-created.
 by the city and the property owner at a time in our history when we didn't do much stormwater planning at all. I would at best call that ad hoc stormwater planning. That to me plays into the final thing that I heard and wanted to ask, that my questions focused on, which is when do we get to require the development to help pay for the infrastructure we need on these two streets?
 especially stormwater and especially sidewalks. And what I heard tonight was that if the zoning remains in place and the property is simply redeveloped under the existing entitlement, our current rules wouldn't allow us to require those infrastructure improvements of the developer. And for me, that makes the decision or helps to make the decision
 Against the past and having three duplexes on the site and a total of six units in the future by having eight units, to me, the increase feels modest. But more importantly, I feel that I have a bit more confidence in the developer based on what was communicated about the concept planning that has taken place so far.
 The notion of the bioswale and the double frontage appears to be taken seriously. And so on balance, I'm going to choose to support this rezoning action tonight. Okay, what are the final comments we have in council? Yeah, I just want to thank the neighbors for being involved and I appreciate your concern and I want to validate those and I believe Councilmember Petty eloquently stated
 you know, that leaving the property as is is really
 not going to be a good option going forward. And we have a lot to trust that going forward, these properties will be better and more maintained. Unfortunately, that's not part of how we can make our decision. Really. We're looking at bringing some families and some new friends to the neighborhood for four on each side. And again,
 I think that's kind of where what we're looking at in terms of housing to be able to bring more people to Fayetteville and also into some smaller homes that could bring the price down.
 because it's an excellent neighborhood near the Ozark Natural Foods and eventually I hope we could get some sidewalks there and we did talk about that extensively. I'm still concerned a little bit about parking on Fletcher. Fletcher is no parking on the street so I think, I hope that maybe the developer can consider putting maybe there was some
 Really great, a great parking spot situation on summit. Mr. Wilkins had a great example where he put some gravel so people can park in his property, some of those probably maybe easement from the city as well.
 But he was able to move his cars or any of his visitor parking out of the road. So I think that Fletcher is going to need that really badly. Some, it's going to get clogged up if people start coming.
 getting on the road as well. So I hope that maybe that can be considered for some off street, I don't know what you'd call that, sideways parallel parking, but into the property potentially to help with that, mitigate that traffic situation. But overall, I feel like the zoning is appropriate to bring neighbors to the beautiful Mount Sequoia neighborhood to enjoy that lifestyle of supporting it.
 okay what are the final comments do we have in council um i have a question mayor for for jonathan um jonathan could you could you discuss um if the proposed zoning was rsf8 versus rsf18 and what would be potentially required how many houses would be able to build be built there and if there would be any kind of
 You know, I know it's, I think you talked about how much impact there would be on the street, but could you just kind of explore those differences and requirements, RSF 8 versus RSF 18? It's a good question. I don't know that I've vetted the property in terms of RSF 8, but looking at it at a surface level, it looks like it would be about half the density, I believe, of what the applicant intends to develop. So it'd probably be, it would be, I think, but the way...
 The lot is shaped and it's dimensions. It's got a pretty long width frontage on summit Fletcher. They could either put two or three houses facing one street at one the other, or two facing each street. From what i'm looking at the property's just over
 half an acre so it's possible that they could have a fifth unit in there i think it would be pretty cozy uh certainly on their rsf 18 the eight units could be achieved uh there's even a slim possibility that you can fit a ninth unit in there just depending on how you laid out the site so i think putting it in terms of how council member petty was discussing it i think it would be
 where there were six units and three duplexes under RSF8, they could potentially have four single-family homes, or under RSF18, it could be eight single-family homes. So under the RSF8 scenario, but they have to go through grading permits and all of those other kinds of requirements, or the lot splitting, how would that work? Sure.
 That's a good question. A lot of it depends on the timing of how the applicant develops the property. If they do want to develop it with eight units in eight lots, that would almost certainly, from what I have seen, require going through our platting process, which is the highest level of requirement. And it's in the HHOD, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. So that includes full tree preservation plus additional canopy since it's in the Hillside Hilltop.
 water quality or storm water and water quality requirements. Whereas if the remaining two duplexes were removed and four lots are created with four single family homes, it would not be subject to our planning requirements, but there would be substandard for the hillside hilltop standards. So there would be a grading plan would have to be submitted and there would be a height preservation standard. Thank you for that clarification. I appreciate it. Anything else?
 Okay, maybe suspend roles in the third reading or we're already on the third. We're ready to vote. Okay Karen would you please come any any other comments from the council care? Would you please call row Hertzberg? Yes Guterres yes Jones yes Indian yes, Eddie. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes hurt
 Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move along to new business. Number one, an ordinance away from competitive bidding and to approve cost share agreement with 1155 Properties LLC for the upsizing of a water line along Great Street with a refund in an amount not to exceed $47,752.10 to be paid by the city of Federal and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $4,775.21. Kip?
 Whereas 1155 Properties LLC is developing property at the northwest corner of Gregg Avenue and Drake Street, and whereas the developer is required to reconstruct approximately 490 feet of existing 8-inch water line along Drake Street due to the needed grading cut in this area for the project,
 And whereas the City's Water Master Plan identifies a 12-inch water line grid every half mile, and this reconstruction provides an opportunity to cost-share for the 12-inch line instead of an 8-inch line at an estimated cost to the City of $47,752.10. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with 1155 properties llc to upsize an eight inch water line along break street to a 12 inch water line with a refund in the amount not to exceed 47 752 dollars and 10 cents
 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further approves the project contingency in the amount of $4,775.21. Okay, Tim.
 Thank you, Mayor. As Kit described, 1155 Properties LLC is required to move approximately 500 feet of 8-inch line at the northwest corner of Gregg Avenue and Drake Street. Our master plan does identify 12-inch water line grids every half mile, wherever possible, for dependable water service. And this relocation provides an opportunity to call share for a portion of a 12-inch line instead of the 8-inch.
 gives the city another line segment towards a complete 12-inch waterline grid. The developer received separate quotes from their on-site utility contractor, TBE Arkansas LLC, for both the 8-inch waterline and the alternative 12-inch waterline.
 The difference in the installation costs with the upsized line, the increased engineering and developer effort is the basis of this cost share. And the staff does recommend approval of 100% of the upgrade costs. The total cost of the project is quoted to be $199,347.45.
 The amount of the cost share agreement is not to exceed $47,752.10 with a 10% contingency. This makes the cost share split of the city paying 24% and the developer paying 76%.
 the funds are available in the water sewer impact heat cost stream project and this item was presented to the water sewer committee on april the 13th with a four to zero vote before it to the full council with a recommendation for approval we happen to answer any questions what questions do we have in the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In-person folks, please line up. Inside the chambers are out and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be taken first to give people time to line up
 outside the chambers. Please, you can remove your mask only when speaking. Please put it on when you're finished. Who would like to address from the public on this? Erin Adkins-Urey. Okay, go ahead. Hi, this is Erin Adkins-Urey with High Street Real Estate and Development. I'm actually representing the ownership tonight, not as a member of the public, but I just wanted to let you know that I'm available to answer any questions or provide any additional background if the council has anything they would like to ask me. That's all.
 okay thank you very much who else would like to address this from the public okay bring it back to the council what's the wishes of council this is an ordinance that's on the first reading i move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in the second to go to the second reading here would you please call the herzberg yes get heroes yes jones yes jenny yes eddie yes
 Scroggin yes, but yes, sir Yes, and nor this way formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 11 55 properties LLC for the upsizing of a water line along Drake Street with a refund in amount not to exceed 47,000 seven hundred and fifty two dollars and ten cents to be paid by the city of Fayetteville and to approve a project contingency in the amount of four thousand seven hundred and seventy five dollars and 21 cents a
 move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second Hertzberg yes get here. Oh, yes Yes, Kenyan. Yes, Teddy. Yes Yes Yes Yes
 had an earnest away formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 1155 properties llc for the upsizing of a water line along drake street with a refund in an amount not to exceed forty seven thousand seven hundred and fifty two dollars and ten cents to be paid by the city of fayetteville and to approve a project contingency in the amount of four thousand seven hundred and seventy five dollars and twenty one cents what final comments do we have in the council may you have a brief question
 Yes, sure. Tim, this question is probably for you. I'm going to support those cost shares. This question is about cost shares in general. I'm reminded of our equipment committee where fleet has a point system to help decide when fleet vehicles are replaced.
 And so there's 15 points and you get points for different things, but mostly it's how maintenance stacks up along the way. I'm just curious, have we considered or do we already have an internal process similar to a point system that we use to judge these cost share applications and how much of them we want to support? No, we don't use a point system. We do go by the ordinances that require that
 There are several factors, whether it benefits further usage of the system by additional users is one of the deals. If it's a cost savings, such in this case where the developer's already got a contractor in place, it would be far cheaper to go ahead and upsize the line rather than write a new contract and have somebody else come in.
 situations like that, it's usually always spelled out rooming right to cost share, but no, at this point we don't have a point system. Okay, thank you for that explanation. I'd just like to make a suggestion that
 While we may not have one, I wonder if there might be a standard bulleted list or something that we might include on future memos. Just to make the reasons for these recommendations very clear. And I only ask that out of motivation to help the Council proceed through these discussions efficiently, because I know that we've had a number of cost shares over the years.
 we've kind of been on the fence about. And I think that might help us establish our consensus whenever we've got one that's not quite as clear as this one is. Thanks for giving me the time to suggest it. And certainly we will add bullet points on what the advantages are to cost you, certainly will. Okay, any other comments from council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones?
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Edge? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all number two an ordinance away form competing being an approved cost share agreement with RC part That was LLC for the overlaying of the west side of Morningside Drive With a refund in the amount not to exceed seventy five thousand one hundred fifty five dollars and eighty eight cents To be paid by the city of federal Chris. I mean, I'm sorry kit what
 Whereas the RC Park Meadows LLC is developing a new residential subdivision located along the west side of Morningside Drive in between 15th Street and Huntsville Road. And whereas the developer discovered that the west side of Morningside Drive has an irregular cross-section making it difficult for the developer and the contractor to meet city street standards and the condition of Morningside Drive is deteriorating.
 And whereas recognizing an opportunity to work with the developer to have the entire width of this street be paved all at once, city staff is recommending this cost share to reimburse the developer for costs associated with paving the western half of the street. Now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with rc park meadows llc for the overlay of the west side of the morningside drive with the refund in the amount not to exceed seventy five thousand one hundred fifty five dollars and eighty eight cents to be paid by the city of fayetteville okay chris
 Now Chris, it's your turn. Thank you, Mayor. As the ordinance states, this is a cost share for paving. It's part of the Park Meadows development, which is on the east side of Morningside Drive between 15th Street and Huntsville. That development was required to widen
 provide parking along Morningside Drive, curb and gutter, and pave the east half of the road. As they were looking at the paving plan, the cross section was found to be irregular and it was going to be difficult to get a good smooth pavement there.
 David Apsley, Also looking at the at the west side of the road. There were some patches and some other deterioration on that section of roadway so staff made the decision to request a developer provide us a
 David Dismukes, and that's what's before you tonight to consider. This will allow the contractor to pay both sides of the road and have an all new facility from 15th Street to Huntsville. And maybe to further the answer that Tim gave about cost shares.
 You know, we typically look at you know what what's required of the development, based on their their impact of the on our infrastructure. If there's a situation where we feel like there are more infrastructure needs adjacent to a project like this that
 that the developer would not typically be required to complete, then we have to make a judgment call as to whether it's appropriate time to make those improvements and cost share with the developer or, you know, consider those at a different time. So it's really kind of what's above and beyond required of a development, and then we make a decision whether we want to bring that to the council to do that using city funds. And I'll answer any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Chris on this? Just for clarity, so there's essentially it's, because I'm looking through here to see kind of what their cost is going to be, but it looks like the $75,000 is for the one side of the street and then the other side is what they will take care of, but it's not showing the cost of what they're contributing. I guess it's another $75,000, or can you help me with that part?
 Yeah, it would actually be a little bit more than that because they did widen the road and they're adding some additional paving. But we didn't have that information because really in this particular instance, what they're paying was not really relevant to our discussion here. They were required to, at their cost, whatever it is,
 to do that widening and pave the east half of the road. So we just requested the price for the west half, which is the city's portion. Doctor, thank you. Any other questions from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you.
 In-person folks, please begin to line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be taken first to allow people time to line up. Remove mask only when speaking, and please put it back on. So who would like to address us from the public on this? From Zoom first. Okay. Is there anyone out here in person that would like to address us?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. We suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. I second it. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Buds? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. In order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with R.C. Park Meadows LLC for the overlaying of the west side of Morningside Drive with a refund in the amount not to exceed $75,155.88 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville. Okay. This is on the second reading. It is an ordinance, Council. What discussion, action, what would you all like to do? Why don't we suspend the rules and go to the third reading? Okay.
 i second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call them up herzberg yes godera yes jones yes canyon yes petty yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 and your list away formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with rc park meadows llc for the overlaying of the west side of morningside drive with a refund in amount not to exceed 75 155.88 to be paid by the city of phil what final comments do we have in the city council here would you please call the road herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes eddie
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-038 located at 656 East Huntsville Road for approximately .20 acres from RA residential single family 8 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, Residential Single Family 8 Units per Acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map Of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, John Thank You mayor Jonathan Kurth with development services. Let me get my presentation open here
 Alright, this property is located southeast of downtown Fayetteville, just outside the northern boundary of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan and on the northwest corner of Huntsville and Lytton. It is more or less at the base of Sequoia's southern slope, Mount Sequoia's southern slope that is, and as such the property is fairly sloped with the upper or northern half designated as the hillside hilltop overlay district.
 It's developed with one single family home that county records appears to be just over 100 years old and has direct access to live. Excuse me, the applicant proposes to rezone the property from its existing RSF8 zoning district to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Zoning and land uses in the area are fairly varied as you can see on the zoning map here with multiple attached residential buildings to the south, along with some commercial structures. These segue into the subject property once you cross Huntsville Road into some single family homes ranging from about 1,000 to 2,000 square feet to the north.
 The zoning largely reflects the land uses with the largest exception being the single-family homes immediately to the east of this property on the other side of Litt that are all zoned to allow multifamily development.
 In this context, staff does find the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses. The RAU zoning district does allow for lots and smaller dwellings that accommodate some with some fairly flexible zoning requirements that can reflect some of the patterns that already exist in the area, while also limiting the buildings to single two, three, and four family, so kind of capping out their sizes.
 As of land use compatibility, staff finds their quest to be consistent with the city's long range plans.
 First, speaking to the future land use map, it is designated as residential neighborhood area. This designation in particular encourages a pretty wide spectrum of residential housing with a particular emphasis on major corridors and at corners. With this property located at the corner of Huntsville, a fairly high traffic area, the allowance to increase the density does seem appropriate. Similarly, we found it to be complementary of city plan 2040 goals.
 Direct access to Huntsville Road, improved public street, and a lot of the amenities in the area make this what's found to be an appropriate infill site. It also has access to transit. I believe it's Route 20 of Ozark Regional. It runs along Huntsville Road in this area. It has a stop nearby.
 This also affords the ability to develop closer to the street rather than going further up the slope on Sequoia, hopefully preserving some of those more sensitive areas.
 numbering on the infill matrix. It does get points for the fire department response times coming from Happy Hollow. It does have access to water and sewer. Again, it is right on Route 20 of Ozark Regional Transit. There's nearby park and portions of nearby trail that are gradually being built out along Huntsville. Other issues and considerations staff included in their review were the conforming of the existing buildings,
 under the RSF 8 zoning district on the property. The home does not conform with the existing setbacks. That can prove challenges if somebody were to want to do anything other than maintain it in its existing shape as opposed to RAU which does have a build to zone allowance which could permit perhaps modifying the building and moving it closer to Lytton or Huntsville. As for Lytton Avenue, and this is beginning to segue into public comments,
 It is a very steep street. There is no signage preventing on-street parking. That was a point of conversation at the Planning Commission between residents and the Commission about whether parking would become an issue in this area. It's a fairly low density street despite its intensity and slope. There are about six or seven single family homes that access the street from my last visit to the area.
 We did hear that from applicants that were concerned about being able to pull on the Huntsville Road and the traffic there and whether it would be appropriate to have any more homes. Lytton is also a dead end street without a cul-de-sac or any sort of formal turnaround and some of the residents of the street had concern about that and how that would adversely affect traffic circulation.
 With all these issues in mind and on the balance, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission concurred and forwarded the item by a vote of 8-0. Some of the high points, again, were they discussed that they felt the street infrastructure on Lytton in particular was adequate to accommodate any traffic or parking. Also, commissioners commented on this being a very appropriate location for additional development and housing.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe I have Conrad Seamek here as the applicant attending virtually. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. Mr. Seamek. Hello. Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, sorry about that. Well, I was going to touch on quite a few things, but Jonathan did such a thorough job that he covered quite a few of my talking points. I just want to, you know, reiterate a couple of things. You know, the land, the rear of the lot is...
 quite vacant. It is, you know, has a close setback to Lyton and Huntsville and so kind of leaves the back of the lot really kind of exposed and open. It's kind of terraced, so the lot is not really that conducive to, you know, nice backyard usage.
 Interestingly, a neighbor called me and informed me that that lot had been owned by his family. And it was actually two lots originally. And they combined them in order to save on their tax bill. You know, it's not a, they're not a whole lot of trees, even though it's on the hilltop.
 zoning or the protections zone. And, you know, it's not in kind of a sensitive area of town. It's not a wetland area. It's kind of clear and it looks like someone may have been planning on doing something with that land. It's kind of terraced appropriately for some additional structures.
 The two neighbors expressed some concerns about street width, parking, and steepness. Definitely appreciate their input. The street's about 24 feet wide, which is actually about two feet wider than Morningside as a through street. And I know Morningside's getting widened, but the street width seems fairly modern. Yeah.
 The steepness, you know, the, the street really picks up steepness quite a bit after this parcel. Up the hill a little bit further than it kind of curves to. The West Bay, I understand that neighbors concerns there for for parking. I wanted to kind of.
 mentioned just a couple quick quick things um and no intention of doing any kind of on-street parking and there's a another neighbor i'm not sure who but has uh parked a trailer and a jeep kind of dilapidated a vehicle you know on on the adjacent to the parcel and it's you know the house has been vacant for quite some time land has not been utilized additionally there's a neighbor to the west that
 unfortunately has a couple cars but only has one parking spot and they have to pull in from Huntsville so they've been parking on the street as well so I just wanted to kind of let the neighbors know that I think developing and repurposing this lot would actually improve the parking concerns because folks in the area will not be as tempted to park in a home that uh
 Is vacant and a parcel that's vacant But I really appreciate your guys time And I thank you very much. Okay. Thank you What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment Everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members and
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. Anyone in person, please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. Remove mask only when speaking and please put it back on when you are finished. Who would like to address from the public? Thank you.
 Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. What discussion would you like to have or action? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Everybody please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Syracuse. Scroggins? Yes.
 Yes. Fetch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-038 located at 656 East Huntsville Road for approximately a fifth of an acre from RSF 8 residential single family, eight units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. This is an ordinance that's on the second reading. Yes, go ahead, Sonia.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion second to go to the third final reading. Everybody please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Accused. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Ert? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-038, located at 656 East Huntsville Road, for approximately a fifth of an acre, from RSF 8 residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban. What final comments do we have in the council? Mayor, I'd like to explain my recusal. Sure. Sure.
 I have no direct interest in this property or this rezoning. However, out of an abundance of caution, I'm recusing because I do have a development interest in a large parcel of land nearby to the east. We intend to use this rezoning as a precedent for a future rezoning application, and I want to avoid all appearances of any undue influence. Okay. Thank you, Matthew. Thank you.
 Anybody else care, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Recuse. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four.
 An ordinance rezoned that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-039 located at 4300 Block of Martin Luther King Boulevard for approximately 1.3 acres from RA Residence Agricultural to CS Community Services. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services, Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. John?
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in southwest Fayetteville. As you can see here, the extents of our planning project maps don't pick up anything outside our boundaries, so it looks like it falls off, but that is indeed farming to the west. I take the liberty of including this map to give you a little bit more perspective of what's occurring around the site. It is currently undeveloped. It is
 largely full of tree canopy. It's where the terrain, the rather steep terrain to the south, begins to level out as it approaches Martin Luther King Boulevard. Directly abuts Farmington to the west and is another item on the agenda tonight with two frontages. To the north has access to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. To the south has access to West Ozark Trail, which
 despite being right away at this location, can only be accessed by way of Farmington. Rezoning in the immediate area is all residential agricultural, some mostly undeveloped properties, floodplain properties, or properties that remain from previous annexations that were never developed and are largely residential or large lot in character, this property remains.
 It follows that trend and is a remnant of when it was annexed and rezoned agriculturally. As you can see here, the development along the MLK border has gradually continued westward from the intersection of Ruple and MLK. With that trend, staff is recommending that this item does meet the compatibility in terms of land use with the surrounding properties to the north and east.
 does could benefit from transitional zoning going further to the south. I believe with planning staff originally spoke with the applicant or described in their report. There can be an option to rezone the southern portion of this property to something lower intensity, but we are supportive finding that the land use compatibility is there to rezone the property to CES community services.
 It certainly is much more in line with our long-range plans for the corridor, as you may imagine, being one of the few stretches of Martin Luther King that's not yet developed. It is designated a city neighborhood area, which fairly directly aligns with the CS Community Services Zoning District. CS allows a mixture of uses, including residential and non-residential ones that can be built at fairly high levels of density to create that compact, complete, connected neighborhood we aspire to. Thank you.
 Similarly, we feel that this is an appropriate location for development. It is just outside of the hilltop hillside overlay district and the enduring green network portions of Fayetteville in this area, which begin mostly to the south and east. It's well beyond the floodplain that's found on the other side of MLK.
 Further, it could potentially complement the city's growth concept map that was adopted with City Plan 24, which designates RuPaul and MLK as a Tier 2 center, anticipating for fairly intense development and growth in the long term.
 The infill score is perhaps unsurprising in that it's a five on this property, given it is towards the periphery of the city. It does have access to water and sewer, which reflects our agreements to provide those to Farmington. It does have fairly good fire department response as well. It does have access to park, despite the fact that it is on the other side of MLK from this property.
 And the future language map again calls the site out as a city neighborhood area. The only other item that drew staff's attention in our findings was the condition of Ozark Trail and the road to get to it from MLK. If you had an opportunity to visit either site.
 Both are very narrow. They certainly are more agricultural or rural in nature. And staff did hear public comment at the Planning Commission meeting to that effect. The road, which I believe is unnamed, to come off of MLK to Ozark Trail is about 15 feet wide, whereas Ozark Trail is about 17 feet wide, so that certainly would be a consideration if
 The applicant or future developer was wanting to utilize the site, no access Ozark Trail would likely trigger some pretty significant street improvements. With that in mind, staff did find the request to be generally compatible with surrounding land uses, but certainly more so with future land use plans. The applicant did originally approach the Planning Commission with a request for UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 staff was not supportive of the request. I felt it was too much of this property, although this is a fairly intense busy corridor, it certainly segues in the lower intensity Farmington and again to the North or to the South. The planning commission did agree and felt that CS community services was a more appropriate zoning district and forwarded the request accordingly and unanimously. And again, staff does support that request.
 And I believe I already touched on public comments, but to summarize again, the main concerns came from property owners to the south, southeast on the other side of Ozark Trail, who did have concerns about the narrowness of the street and losing its very rural character. It's easy to forget driving on there that you're a few hundred feet from MLK. And with that, I'm available for public comments.
 And I believe the applicant, Tracy Hoskins, is there in person. I don't see him virtually. I do. Thank you. Okay. Tracy, you want to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. You're leaving, Mr. Mayor, and virtual council? Okay.
 This project originally started out where we were requesting urban thoroughfare zoning. The primary reason for requesting that zoning was because drive-through restaurants, which is our intent for the property, drive-through restaurants are okay, used by right in urban
 We still believe that that is an appropriate zoning, however, I know the city staff disagrees with that. And we believe that the site is, the concerns the city staff had as far as urban thoroughfare zoning, we believe the site is way too small, way too compact, and not appropriate for anything that would be of large scale that could be done in urban thoroughfare zoning.
 But anyhow, it seemed like the Planning Commission was very public that on the way, if this was approved by the City Council of Community Services, that they would be supportive of a conditional use permit for the drive-thru restaurant. And so I'm okay with that because that was the actual intent to begin with, with the urban thoroughfare zoning, is just to have the use by right on the drive-thru restaurant.
 As far as the folks to the south of the infrastructure along those are trailer would have you of course that's something that that is Addressed at the time of development Issue here
 for rezoning or what have you but of course we will address that at the time of development i also spoke to those neighbors from the south but i think their biggest desire is to have a buffer between what we're doing and their home to the south as far as other properties surrounding these this is a rebirthing area these are older homes
 Of course, the highest and best use of these properties along Martin Luther King is actually commercial or what have you. And so, like I said, if you look across the street, you can see that's all new commercial development.
 few parcels to the east of us is urban thoroughfare zoning and RMF zoning I believe as well. And so this is a, as staff said, a developing or redeveloping area of Martin Luther King on the edge of the city or what have you. And so I'm here to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the council? Okay. Well
 Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. If you're here in person, please line up outside the chambers. Keep six feet apart.
 Zoom comments will be taken first to allow people time to line up. You may remove your mask when speaking. Please put it back on once you're done speaking. Who would like to address from the public first? Okay, no public comments. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. What questions, comments, action would the council like to take?
 I would really like to go with the recommendation of the staff and planning commission. I know recently we talked about that we're not, I feel like there was something recently where we're not necessarily going to rezone here at city council, but back at planning commission. So I want to make sure that.
 You know, when it's coming from Planning Commission with that recommendation that we're not changing the zoning, didn't we have this conversation recently? I know what you're saying. John, would you like to answer that?
 If I'm if I'm understanding Councilmember Gutierrez, I think it was in the context of of applicants getting denied or appealing requests and then trying to bring an amended request to the council without having staff or the Planning Commission vetting those. In this instance, the Planning Commission amended the request and per ordinance, the ordinance that's before you tonight reflects what the Planning Commission recommends and staff is in agreement with that.
 Right. We've changed that up. Whatever the Planning Commission recommends, that's what the staff's bringing. And then you all can change it here, I suppose, if you want to. Well, I don't even know if you can do that. That's what we're going to bring from now on. Once Planning Commission decides on something, that's what you're going to hear from the council.
 So it is appropriate, would it be appropriate then to amend to community services because the applicant is amenable to that? We already did that. We understood that the city council wanted to have a rezoning as recommended by the planning commission, even if the applicant was recommending something else. So that is how it's drafted now. Okay, so it's already done. Okay. Planning commission recommended.
 Okay. Right? That's right. I got you. I got you. Okay. I'm just catching up. I would, let's see, we're on the first reading? Yes. Yeah. So I'll make, I'd like to spin the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-039, located at the 4300 block of Martin Luther King Boulevard, for approximately 1.38 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. I move to sign the rules and go to the third reading.
 i second we have a motion to second go third and primary care would you please call the row herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggins yes budge yes turk yes
 And in order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-039, located at the 4300 block of Martin Luther King Boulevard, for approximately 1.38 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? I just wanted to thank Mr. Hoskins for working with the neighbors on the south about a potential barrier there, so thank you for that. Anything else?
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hedge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five.
 An ordinance to approve vacation 21-016 property located at 1000 West Bulldog Boulevard to vacate a portion of public right-of-way. Kent. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. Kent.
 and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of public right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portions of street and alley right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo, Section 2,
 that a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk in Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense or at the expense of the property owner or developer.
 And number two, a 20-foot wide utility easement shall be dedicated for all utilities currently located within the right-of-way of Delaware Avenue. Jonathan.
 apologies muted uh thank you mayor uh this property is located uh south of the main university of arkansas campus between the fable high school building and the fable high school baseball field as you can see here in the aerial it's immediately west of the administration building that favo public schools uses
 It's an odd piece of right-of-way. It was dedicated in, I believe it's 1927, as a part of the Oak Park Place subdivision, much of which was never developed. This is one of the only remaining pieces of right-of-way that was never developed with it. The rest of which you can see here in blue has all been vacated over the decades. This portion of Delaware is all that remains and ends in the baseball field's left field, I believe.
 You can see that, but a little bit more current context here. The administration buildings immediately to the east, University of Arkansas land is all or land west of the right of way is all owned by the University of Arkansas. And the high schools to the south of the baseball field is to the north.
 There are always at least two considerations staff takes and thinks about when we're looking at a right-of-way vacation. The first of which is ensuring that all our franchise utilities have had the opportunity to consider it, which in this case they have and have all approved it or not expressed any reservations about it. And the second one, and potentially more important from staff's perspective, is the connectivity potential that right-of-way represents.
 We're always reluctant to recommend in favor of losing street right of way, whether it's improved or not. But in this instance, we feel that it does not have any connectivity potential at this point. It's boxed in on four sides by large institutional users who likely will not have any need or use for a public street for accessing these lands. And so we are recommending in favor of the request.
 David Waters, The Planning Commission did agree and we're comfortable with placing it on the consent agenda, where it was forwarded by a vote of nine to zero. David Waters, And with the two conditions that Mr Williams outlines that any damage or relocation of utilities in that right away or it's done at the developers expense and that'd be replaced by a 20 foot right away along its length.
 Ac gyda hynny, rwy'n hapus i wneud unrhyw gwestiynau y mae'r Cyngor wedi eu cyflwyno. Ac rwy'n credu bod yna'r Prif Weinidog Zach Hickson yn ystod ei gilydd fel ymgyrchwr ar gyfer y peth. Diolch. Iawn. A fydd y prif weinidog am siarad cyn gyntaf i'r Cyngor? Mae gennych chi 10 munud. Hei, dyma Zach Hickson. Rwy'n hoffi gwneud fy hun ar gael i ateb unrhyw gwestiynau. Iawn. Iawn. Pa gwestiynau sydd gennym ni gan y Cyngor ar gyfer y prif weinidog neu'r staff? Iawn. Gadewch i ni wneud
 mae pawb yn cael un tro i siarad, mae gennych ddiwedd ffyn o ddiwedd, ond yn agored mewn segmennu o tri a ddwy munud. Peidiwch â chymryd unrhyw un yn y cyhoedd neu unrhyw gyngor. Gwneud yn dda, nid ydych yn gwneud gwneud yn ddifrifol, gwasanaeth a'ch enw. Bydd ymwneud â'r arwain yn cael eu siarad yn gyntaf. Cofiwch sgarn 9 ar eich ffôn neu cadw'r ddau i'w cyd-dau i'w cydnabod. Gwneud yn ddiwedd i'n gallu'ch clywed. Ymwneud yn ffyn, gwasanaeth
 gallwch ddychwelyd eich masg ar unig pan fydd yn siarad, ac yn gofyn i chi ei roi'n ôl pan ydych chi'n ddiweddar. Nawr, pwy fyddai eisiau cyflawni hynny o'r cyhoedd? Iawn, byddaf yn mynd i'w dod yn ôl i'r Cyngor. Mae hyn yn ymgyrch, rydym ar y cyfnod cyntaf. Beth gwestiynau, sylwadau neu pethau i'w wneud? Rwy'n mynd i ddewis y rheolau a mynd i'r cyfnod ail. Rwy'n ei ddewis. Mae gennym ymddygiad i'w ddewis a mynd i'r cyfnod ail. Tara, a allw
 Ydw. Jones? Ydw. Kenyon? Ydw. Teddy? Ydw. Scroggan? Ydw. Fudge? Ydw. Kirk? Ydw. Ac mae'r cyfnod wedi'i gyflawni, 21-016, ar gyfer aelodau ar gael ar 1000 West Bulldog Blivard i fwyaf o leiaf y cyhoedd. Ac felly, dyma'r ail gyfnod. Dyma'r cyfnod. Beth ydych chi'n ei dymuno i'r Cyngor?
 Rydyn ni'n gwneud y cwrs yn ddiweddar ac yn mynd i'r cyfnod tair. Yn ddiweddar. Mae gennym ni'r cyflwyniad yn ddiweddar i fynd i'r cyfnod tair a'r cyfnod olaf. Gwna i chi ofal y cyfnod. Hertzberg? Ie. Gutierrez? Ie. Jones? Ie. Kenyon? Ie. Petty? Ie. Scroggin? Ie. Fudge? Ie. Kirk?
 Ac i ddod yn dda, mae'r AC 21-016 yn cael ei gynnal ar gyfer cyfnodau cyhoeddus ar y bulefard Bulldog ystod 1000. Beth o'r sylwadau olaf sydd gennym yn y cyngor ar hyn o bryd? Mae gen i gwestiwn. Jonathan, o ran y cymhwysoedd, mae'n cael, nifer un, ddiffygadu neu adael cyfleoedd. Byddwn yn ymwneud â'r cyllid ymgyrchol.
 ar y prif wleidyddion arall a'r ddwy ar y ffwrdd 20 o ddodd i'w gael, ar gyfer pob ddodd sydd ar gael ar hyn o bryd, yn y lle cyffredinol o'r Rhydyddion o Delaware. Felly os ydym yn gwerthu hyn, a ydych chi'n cael eich dau gynhwysfeydd neu a ydym yn ei anfon?
 Rwy'n credu y ffordd y mae Swyddog Yrwyddoedd William wedi'i drafod y gynlluniau yw ei fod yn cynnwys y ddau gynlluniau. Ie, ac efallai eich bod chi'n adolygu'r e-bost a wnes i ei gynnal cyn y cyfarfod. Yn adolygu'r oen nesaf, roedd yna argyfwng y byddaf yn ei ddod yn ei gyflwyno i'w gynnal. Ond fel y dywedodd y staff, dyma sut mae'r gynlluniau yma wedi'u gwneud. Iawn, diolch. Unrhyw beth arall? Unrhyw sylwadau olaf? Gert, a allwch chi alw'r rhôl?
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. That's number six, an ordinance to approve vacation 21-0018, the property located at 1000 West Bullard Boulevard, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. John? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is immediately north of the last item discussed by Council tonight. As opposed to a pull-it-right-away, this is a public easement, and as such it did not go to the Planning Commission under new ordinances adopted in 2020. The request is to vacate an existing easement, which you see here. It totals about half an acre in size.
 the baseball field running adjacent to some other of the Fayetteville Public Schools facilities. They're needing to vacate this to accommodate some improvements to their property. All utilities, franchise utilities have signed off on the request and it would be incredibly simple except for an error that staff made for which I apologize, which you were emailed about before the meeting. We submit for your consideration the corrected exhibit A, the
 which modifies what you have in your packet. You see here, which accidentally picked up on a piece of East West right away that is in the property. We'd like to substitute that for this,
 and eliminating that other one and cutting out that piece of right-of-way, which would only capture the public utility easement or the general utility easement being proposed. So again, I apologize for confusing what would otherwise be a very straightforward request. And we are recommending approval of the easement tonight with the one condition that any damage or relocation of utilities be done at the developer's expense. And I'm happy to take questions. And Mr. Hickson is also the representative for this one and he's still in attendance.
 Well, first, we probably need to get the amendment done, don't we? Yes. We need to change from the original A to the new A. To the A that has been distributed. Correct, Jonathan? Yes.
 Yes, please, Mayor. Yes, and he's distributed it to the council to the exhibit that he just distributed today. All right. Council, I need a motion and a second to pass the amendment to do that. So moved. Okay. Second. All right. Any discussion on the amendment? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Edge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now everything's everything. What questions do we have from the city council for the staff or the applicant? Unless the applicant would like to take 10 minutes to speak before the council. Did you already, Jason, did you already...
 No, sir, Mr. May. I would like to say a few words, though. I just wanted to clarify and add to the discussion that this request comes in conjunction with a utility main extension permit that is currently in the third review with the engineering department. We are actually relocating a sewer main that runs through the property to make way for future improvements of the property.
 Fayetteville High School academic and athletic complex. And so upon a successful vacation of this general utility easement on the heels of completing the utility main extension work will be immediately rededicating new utility easement, general utilities that will realign and match the, I should say it should, it will match the alignment of the relocated sanitary sewer.
 All right, what questions do we have from the council now for the applicant or staff? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residence first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person folks, please begin to line up outside the chambers. Stay six feet apart. Zoom comments will be taken first. Give people time to line up. Remove your mask only when speaking and please put it back on when you are finished. Who would like to address from the public?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What questions, comments, or actions would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 21018 for property located at 1000 West Bulldog Boulevard, the vacator portion of the general utility easement. And so? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Move the motion second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Second.
 Gutierrez yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Fudge yes Turk yes an ordinance approved vac 21 018 for properly located at 1000 west bulldog boulevard to vacate a portion of a general utility easement what final comments do we have in the council
 Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Judge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. The mayor needs about a seven-minute break here, so we'll be back in seven minutes. I don't need anybody to go anywhere. Okay.
 Okay, let's go ahead and get started again. Moving along to number seven, an ordinance to amend 120.02, Landlord's Representative Registry of the City Code to require registration of properties utilized in short-term rentals. Kit. Whereas on August 18, 2020, the City Council passed Ordinance 6349, which established a Landlord's Representative Registry.
 and whereas on august april 20th of 2021 the city council passed ordinance 6427 adopting short-term rental regulations and whereas during the discussion of the short-term rentals the city council considered several amendments including requiring short-term rental operators which are currently exempt to register with the landlord's representative registry now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend section 120.02 of the Fayetteville City Code by repealing the last sentence of section 120.02 A and replacing it with the following, quote, the owners of short-term rentals shall be required to designate and register their landlord's representative into the registry, unquote. OK. John.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have very little to add to Mr. Williams' description of this. Yes, as the background was described, in August of 2020 last year, the Landlord's Representative Registry was adopted by Council.
 Short-term rental properties were deliberately exempted as a part of that because of the ongoing discussions that were occurring in the background and the council's understanding that a short-term rental ordinance would be coming forward. Fast forward to last month and those ordinances were adopted after some amendments as a part of that discussion. The council had requested that the landlord's representative registry be visited to remove that exemption.
 As Mr. Williams described, the final sentence of it as written says that they shall not be required to designate or short-term rental shall not be required to designate a register, excuse me, register a representative at this time. Staff's proposal is simple.
 basically strike a few words and replace it with a statement that they are required to designate a representative. We try to keep it as sweet and simple as possible, and I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have in the council on this? I just have a general question.
 I guess this could be answered by anybody. I just wonder if I could have an example of when a short-term rental owner would need to be contacted by someone other than the city or police or fire. I can speak for that if you'd like. I think when you said other than fire, I mean.
 yeah other than fire i mean that's the most prominent example i think a lot of people think of in fable after the fire on the west side earlier this year when a short-term rental uh i believe burned to the ground and there was difficulty reaching the owner representative but similar to other rental properties in town there is some concern given the the the
 the potential to have people that are living further from Fayetteville, whether it's East Coast, West Coast, Texas, Oklahoma, I don't know where, that they might feel a lower level of responsibility or awareness of what's happening on their property. This would afford not only users of the property, but neighbors of the property to be able to contact somebody to address these issues or for staff to contact them to have some of these issues addressed. And of course, I'd be happy to
 I think my only concern is I believe on the short-term rental ordinance we have a designated person so I didn't know if this was just a designated person or not. I think it's a designated person. I think it's a designated person. I think it's a designated person. I think it's a designated person.
 second option that we have to contact people or if this is to specifically make it available to the public it's mostly about making it available to the public we do have our our
 or there is a licensing process required for the short-term rental process when that ordinance is enacted here in about three days. There are opportunities to cross-reference those, but it's not always perfect one-for-one comparison. Sometimes a property owner could be the one holding the license for the short-term rental, but they may not necessarily be in state while they hold that property. So
 it's important to have that representative delegated. And I also see that the Ms. McGedrick is on the call too. I don't know if she, or on the meeting as well, she has comments to add as the,
 lead staff author of those ordinances. No, I think you covered it well. I think that we do have a designated representative or agent that will be required to be noted on a business license, and that information will be provided, a phone number, email address, and name. But the Landlord Registry would make that information available to the public. Any other questions?
 Does that answer your question? Thank you. Yes, it does. Okay. Any other questions from the council? I can give some real-life examples here of just real simple things that aren't –
 For if you have living oh, sorry If you live next to a property and you know There are times that you might need to contact a representative or the you know the owner of the property Let's say you have a limb that falls down on your fence or something if it's from the neighbor's yard It's technically their responsibility to remove it. This is something that's real common and You know, so it's nice to know who the person is that you contact and
 Now, that has nothing to do with whether it's a short-term rental or not, but it could be, you know, something like that, or trash cans, you know, just simple neighborly things that you have to deal with that you need someone to contact, like trash cans that, you know, blow out into the street or something like that. So, thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or a council or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents be allowed to speak first. Press star and I on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person folks please line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart.
 Zoom comments will be taken first to give people time to line up. Remove mask only when speaking, and then please put it back on. Who would like to address this first in the public? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion, comments, questions, action items would the council like to take? This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. Will those in the rules go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading.
 care which please call them earthspur yes get here is yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes scroggins yes fudge yes turk yes and orders amend section 120.02 landlord's representative registry of the fayetteville city code to require a registration of properties utilized as short-term rentals
 Move please suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Budge? Yes. Kirk?
 ordinance to amend section 120 o to landlords representative registry of the city code to require a registration of properties utilized as short-term rentals what final comments do we have in the council I was contacted by someone who was very upset about the landlord registry and the fact that she
 field all of these calls from the public, which may or may not be relevant. So her concern was why do I have to be contacted by people other than the city if the city's gonna be the one to deal with these concerns? So I think that because of that, I won't be able to support this, but that's my reasoning, so thank you. Okay, any other final comments from the council? Just briefly, like I said, I look at this as things that you would,
 normally contact a neighbor over, not necessarily the city. If the trash cans blow out in the street and it's a short-term rental, I would contact the owner or whoever is the representative on the short-term rental. I wouldn't contact the police or the fire department over that. If a limb goes down or if someone staying there lets their dog go, I would contact the
 use the bathroom in your yard. You know, those are the things. They're neighborly things, and it's knowing who you contact for those sorts of things. The more dramatic things, of course, you contact the fire department or the police department or code compliance or something like that. But these are simple. I see these as simple things. That's just my take on it. Thank you. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? Kara, would you please call the roll? Ertsberg? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number eight.
 An ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions and enact 164.24 registered child care family homes of the federal unified development code to allow the operation of small in-home child care facilities by right throughout the city under certain conditions. Kip.
 Now, Mayor, before I read the entire body of the ordinance, there is an amendment just to add a section three. There was one provision that was left out inadvertently.
 And Section 3, if it's amended into the ordinance, would read that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends the introductory sentence of Section 163.05, Child Care Nursery School, so that it reads as follows. All such establishments, and here's a new language, other than registered child care family homes authorized pursuant to Section 164.24 of the Unified Development Code, which
 shall be located on launch which so that is needed to make this all work together and so I would ask that I think this was sent out to you by Blake Pennington so I would ask that there be an amendment to add that section 3 I moved to a bin to include the reference that kit just mentioned in section 3 section section 3 okay second second
 All right. Any discussion on the amendment? Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. So now I'll read the body of the ordinance with section 3. Right.
 Whereas the City Council adopted City Plan 2040 with objectives to create opportunities for attainable housing, and whereas within this goal is the objective to make housing relatively more affordable by influencing cost of living items and many families struggle with the costs associated with child care, and whereas the Unified Development Code currently requires a conditional use permit for in-home day cares for up to 10 children in residential single-family zoning districts,
 and whereas the proposed amendments will streamline the process for approving small in-home child care facilities and will align the city's regulations with the state of Arkansas's standards. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1
 Now, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 151.01 definitions by enacting a new definition of registered child care family home as follows, quote, registered child care family home zoning, a child care facility licensed by the Arkansas Department of Human Services in which five or fewer children are cared for in the caregiver's own residence, unquote.
 Section 2 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby annexed. Section 164.24, registered child care family homes as follows. Section 164.24, registered child care family homes. Registered child care family homes shall be allowed by right in any zoning district in which the following conditions are met.
 Subsection A, minimum lot area. A registered child care family home shall have a minimum lot area of 250 square feet per child. Subsection B, minimum outdoor play space. A registered child care family home shall provide a minimum outdoor play space of 75 square feet per child calculated on the basis of the number of children occupying the outdoor play space at one time. Outdoor play space shall be fenced and secured.
 Subsection C, number of children. A registered child care facility is permitted for no more than five children. And subsection D, registration with the state of Arkansas. A caregiver operating a registered child care family home shall ensure a current copy of his or her license issued by the Arkansas Department of Human Services is on file with the city of Fayetteville.
 And Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the introductory sentence of Section 16305, Child Care, Nursery School, so that it reads, quote, All establishments other than the registered child care family homes authorized pursuant to Section 164.24 of the Unified Development Code shall be located on lots which. Okay. Perry, you have this one.
 I do. Good evening, everyone. The focus of this moment is to essentially make it easier for small home-based child care facilities to operate in a safe and responsible way and to align the city ordinance with the state of Arkansas standards. Current regulatory requirements have had somewhat of a negative impact, permitting obstacles between individuals that may be considering opening an in-home facility and the resources that they need to be successful.
 The uncertainty of continued operation, the cost of the conditional use permit application process, and the requirement to come before planning commission have increased burdens on potential providers, which, according to the Northwest Arkansas Child Care Association, has resulted in in-home facilities potentially operating illegally within the city, which can be unsafe.
 This amendment will create a registered child care family home, which would be defined as a child care facility registered with the Arkansas Department of Human Services in which five or fewer children are cared for in the caregiver's own residence. It will also remove the burden of a conditional use permit review by planning commission.
 In addition to making it less expensive to open a child care family home, the amendment requires that the homes be registered with the state, which allows facilities access to additional resources like those promoted by the Northwest Arkansas Child Care Association, which translates overall to safer facilities and includes inspections.
 by the state. Ultimately, this amendment will assist in increasing the stock of facilities, lower the cost of childcare and invites advocates in our community to promote safe facilities through resource availability. I do wanna note one thing. So it's a small change to the ordinance before you, a small amendment to the ordinance before you, but in the state licensing requirements,
 requirements, a registered child care family home and a licensed family home are two different things. A registered family home is fewer than five children and a licensed home is six or to 16 children. So staff would recommend that the definition of a registered child care family home, which currently states...
 quote, a child care facility licensed by the Arkansas Department of Human Services, in which five or fewer children are cared for in the caregiver's own residence, be changed to, quote, a child care facility registered by the Arkansas Department of Human Services, in which five or fewer children are cared for in the caregiver's own residence. This allows our language to be in line with state language. And then additionally, in...
 164.24 D registration with the state of Arkansas currently states, quote, a caregiver operating a registered child care family home shall ensure a current copy of his or her license issued by the Arkansas Department of Human Services is on file with the city of Fayetteville.
 and which should read to be in line with state language, quote, a caregiver operating a registered child care family home shall ensure a current copy of his or her registration issued by the Arkansas Department of Human Services is on file with the city of Fayetteville. And that is all I have for you tonight. And I can answer any questions that you have or clarify anything that you would like me to clarify. What questions do we have from the council?
 I move we, do you need an amendment? Someone to make an amendment? I'll amend it. Yeah, I move we amend the language as read by Mary. I second it. Okay. Any discussion on the amendment? Okay. Karen, would you please call the vote? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 yes sir yes okay do we have any thank you all do we have any questions from Council on the amended ordinance all right let's take some public comment
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you.
 In person, please line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart. Zoom comments first to give people time to line up. Remove mask only when speaking, and then put your mask back on, please. Who would like to address first? Tammy Rowland. Go ahead. Thank you. My name is Tammy Rowland. I live at 2670 East Tulip Court in Fenville.
 I'm currently the administrator of the Northwest Arkansas Family Child Care Association. We're a nonprofit association whose mission is to promote the quality inside family child care homes by providing support, mentoring, training, and sponsoring the USDA food program. I was also a family child care home for more than 20 years. I'm here in support of this ordinance because you have a real opportunity to make an impact
 to provide access to affordable, regulated child care in your city by approving this ordinance.
 Most family child care homes start out as a mom who just wants to stay at home with her children, yet she wants or needs to contribute financially to the household. When faced with the complicated and expensive task of achieving a conditional use permit, most just won't go to the trouble to keep a couple of extra children. Instead, they opt to go underground, keeping children illegally inside their home,
 under no guidance or regulation and not reaching their full potential available to regulated facilities. You currently in the city of Fayetteville only have two regulated family child care homes in the entire city limits. Having providers in your city who are unregulated opens children up to the possibility of unqualified and unskilled care and potentially dangerous situations.
 Allowing providers to proceed to regulation without requiring a conditional use permit speeds the process of getting these providers regulated, which means that they're monitored by the City of Bedville Fire Marshal, the Department of Human Services Licensing Division, the Boiler Inspectors, and of course myself. Through regulation, these providers meet safety, health, nutrition, and child development standards requirements.
 They are monitored a minimum of three times a year by licensing health and nutrition departments. They're also required to meet training requirements and maintain minimum standards. I went in more depth with the opportunities in the letter that I emailed to each of you so you see the potential of where providers could actually go. I hope you had a chance to look through some of that information.
 You have the opportunity with providing this ordinance. It can only make child care options in Bedville safer, more affordable, and have a positive effect on the families in your city. I thank you for your time and for your consideration of this important topic. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'm going to go. Steve Clark raised his hand. Who? Steve Clark. But now he took it down.
 so you don't have anybody right okay i'm going to break back to the council this is an ordinance that's on the first reading what's the wish list accounts i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second i said we have a motion to second to go to the second reading coverage please call the role erksberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes eddie
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance amends section 15101 definitions and enacts section 164.24 registered child care family homes of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to allow operation of small in-home child care facilities by right throughout the city under certain conditions.
 move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading care which please call the row herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes fudge yes kirk yes
 In order to amend Section 151.01 definitions and enact Section 164.24, Register of Child Care Family Homes of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, to allow the operation of small in-home child care facilities by right throughout the city under certain conditions. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? I have a comment, Mayor. I would just like to think...
 the folks for bringing this forward to us to get us in compliance with the state code and also encourage these small child care providers to actually come in under compliance and register. So I found that very interesting that there are only two registered in the city right now. So
 clearly we need a realignment of this ordinance. So thank you all for bringing this forward to our attention. Yeah, and yeah, the final comments. I do think I was a little bit in the letter that I received from Mary when she said that an average national average is 7% of your income. Is that correct, Mary? And here in the city of Febville is 26%.
 Yeah. And as a parent, I can tell you, child care is just, I mean, it is so prohibitively expensive. So I'd love to thank Ms. Rowland for, you know, answering any questions that we had and helping us get this through. Because, you know, it just it is really prohibitive, especially, you know, post pandemic with a lot of a lot of people having trouble with the workforce in general. I think it's really important that we work through this.
 I mean, when I saw those numbers, it just, I was a little bit stunned at the cost. I really was. And there's something, if you had three children, it could cost you up as much as 65%.
 of your income, is that correct? Did I read that correctly? Yes, and it depends on the child's age too. So, you know, a lot of these in-home facilities will have, you know, the younger children, which if you're in a larger facility, the younger children can be two to $300 more a week, depending on their age. So if you had a three-year-old and a six-year-old and an afterschool 10-year-old, you could be paying, I know people that pay $3,000 a month or more
 So it is astronomical and it's only getting higher. Well, I really appreciate you bringing, doing all the hard work on this and everybody that's worked on this. I think this is a really important issue that we're dealing with. And I just wanna thank everybody that's worked on this. This is really important. I think Commissioner Paxson had a lot to do with this. Was kind of the,
 motivating sponsor on this. So thank you for that. Thank you, Chris, very much. I appreciate that. Really do. I just, I guess I just didn't know. Mine are all older. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to add, oh, I forgot this thing. Also, you know, we heard that it adds an additional source of income for people too. And it's usually women that are the childcare,
 provide the child care and that sort of thing. So it's helpful to help, helping people with their income. But I can give you a little bit of rundown. I remember it, and I don't remember all the particulars, but there was one child care facility that was operating
 illegally they did not know they were doing anything wrong they've been in operation for several years with no complaints except finally one of the neighbors on the street complained because at certain times of the day there were people parking on the street to pick up and drop off kids this like i said this facility had been there for several years with no complaints try when i was on planning commission trying to get that into compliance we we had to go through an
 They had to put in a fence around the front part of the yard. They had to have parking. They had to have a sign. They had to have, I mean, it was just, we were just trying to figure out how we could get this to work for this person who had already been serving this particular street in this little neighborhood in South Fayetteville very well with no complaints until this one person decided, I don't like these cars parking on the side of the street.
 And it was really difficult because we knew we might be driving her out of her business altogether and putting all of those kids out trying to find some other child care. So I think this is really, really important, and I'm really glad it's been brought forward. Thank you, guys. Very much, Chris. Again, thank you very much. And Mary and everybody who's worked on this. It's a good thing. Okay. With that, Kara, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Okay, number nine.
 An ordinance to amend Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, Chapter 177, Landscape Regulations, and Chapter 151 definitions of Unified Development Code to offer clarification of instances and additional options to both tree preservation and landscaping codes.
 Mayor, the Assistant City Attorney and the Clerk's Office looked at the ordinance, the enacting ordinance was submitted to the Council and thought that even though all the sections are correct, they thought they should be in a different order. It makes it more logical.
 And so I did have Blake go ahead and send his proposal out that he'd worked with Kim in the clerk's office to try to make this a little bit easier to understand. And so I would ask that the City Council amend to what was sent out to them. It is, like I said, it's the same sections, but they're in different order now. And
 I won't be able to read them off my screen, but I still think the amendment is something that probably should go forward. So we want to amend to change the change order of the sections? There are seven sections and they just, some of them needed to be adjusted and
 moved around and so it was that that a proposal was sent out to the council so they had it there in front of them and I can read it but I probably should read it when I you know after the amendment if possible okay would we amend the ordinance as proposed second
 Change the order of the sections. It won't change the section just change the order of the sections. Okay, everybody Everybody with me on that? All right Any discussion on it? Okay care which please call the roll Hertzberg yes get to your ass. Yes Jones Yes, Kenyon. Yes, Eddie. Yes Scroggins yes Bench yes, sir. Oh
 Yes. I'll go ahead and read the body now. Whereas to streamline portions of the Tree Preservation and Landscape Code, staff proposes amendments to Chapter 151, 167, and 177 to offer clarity, efficiency, and options to developers and staff. And whereas both city staff and the Planning Commission recommend approval of the changes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 167.04E, Section 167.04F2, and Section 167.04I4 regarding tree preservation priorities as shown in Exhibit A attached to the Urban Foresters Agenda Memo. Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 167.04F.
 2A and Section 167.04.L.1 regarding tree preservation easements as shown in Exhibit B attached to the Urban Forester's Agenda Memo. Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 167.07 regarding the regulation of commercial tree services as shown in Exhibit C attached to the Urban Forester's Agenda Memo.
 Section 4 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 177-08 by adding the following sentences to the end of the paragraph as shown in Exhibit D attached to the Urban Forester's Agenda Memo. Quote, tree planting may be delayed for optimal planting times with approval from the Urban Forester. A deadline for delayed planting will be set and must be agreed upon with the Urban Forester, unquote. Section 5.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, arcs are hereby amend Section 167.04.J.2 and 167.04.J.3a regarding off-site preservation alternatives as shown in Exhibit E attached to the Urban Foresters Agenda Memo. Section 6. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, arcs are hereby amend Section 167.01.B and Section 167.01.A
 and enacts a new subsection 16704I9 regarding mitigation alternatives shown in Exhibit F attached to the Urban Forester's Agenda Memo. Section 7, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 15101 definitions by enacting the following new definitions as shown in Exhibit G attached to the Urban Forester's Agenda Memo.
 First is mitigation alternatives. Mitigation alternatives are plantings that are not trees but still offer environmental benefits. Intensive green roofs, extensive green roofs and green facades are mitigation alternatives. Intensive green roof, a green roof with six inches or greater of soil medium that can sustain plant species with deeper root systems.
 Extensive green roof, a green roof with 2 to 5 inches of soil median that can sustain plant species with shallow root systems. And green facade, a green facade is created by growing climbing plants up and across the facade of a building, either from the plants grown directly in the ground or a large container of at least 12 inches of soil median.
 Plants can attach directly to the building or be supported by 12 inches by 12 inches of trellis system connected to the building Felling the process of safely cutting a tree down and bringing the tree to the ground. So that's that's it. Okay Jonathan, thank you mayor Melissa Evans the urban foresters actually taking this one. Oh, I
 yes good evening mayor and city council i have a presentation for you so i will share my screen now okay you all have to get that started can you all see that yes okay great
 All right. I'm Melissa Evans, one of the urban foresters for the City of Fayetteville. Urban forestry staff has proposed code changes to Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, and 177 landscape regulations that I would like to present for approval.
 Staff is always trying to improve our code, so we are proposing six changes. But first, a little bit about the history of tree preservation and landscape codes. Our current tree preservation and landscape codes are turning 20 years old this year. Fayetteville has had landscape and some preservation requirements since the early 90s. They were updated and enforced after protests and a lawsuit of the development in 2000.
 The results have been a more comprehensive code that values tree preservation and landscape requirements. In 2006, changes were made to include the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District or HHOD areas. This means that single and two-family residential developments in the HHOD area are required to submit an abbreviated tree preservation and site plan at the time of applying for a building permit.
 No other major changes have been made since 2006. That brings us to the current 2021 proposed change, which at a high level are designed to eliminate inefficient policies and be beneficial to developers, staff, and the city by removing subjectivity and adding clarity to the code, eliminating inefficient policies,
 and giving trees a better chance for long-term survival in Fayetteville. We believe the benefits of these code changes allow developers more planting flexibility on projects, promote more tree preservation which benefits everyone, supports intel projects by offering mitigation alternatives, encourages creative and better designs,
 allows for more opportunity in the tree care industry, and strengthens our off-site mitigation requirements. We hope you will support these changes. The proposed changes help achieve the City's urban forestry 2018 Energy Action Plan and Development Services goals.
 Urban forestry is focused on the overarching goal of increasing the healthy tree canopy throughout the City of Fayetteville through the preservation of existing mature trees, planting new trees, and the building of a healthy urban forest through responsible stewardship, education, and management plans.
 The Energy Action Plan was adopted by City Council in January 2018 and included a citywide goal of achieving 40% tree canopy coverage by 2030 and specified an action item to modify existing tree preservation minimums and mitigation rates in the City's Tree Preservation Code to improve the long-term ecological outcomes of urban development.
 Development services goals are to be responsive to customers, be effective in internal communication, and achieve efficiency in the city by helping developers and citizens obtain services they need in one location.
 By aligning the goals in these three areas, we believe the flexibility, clarity, and options provided in the proposed code changes will bring near-term benefit to developers and staff, and an ultimate benefit to the entire city by improving our urban forest health.
 One of the biggest debates we have had with consulting engineers and developers is the existing tree priority level. We currently have three levels and would like to eliminate the mid-level priority. This change would eliminate the debate and simplify and clarify code. Inadvertently, this will promote more tree preservation or require more mitigation from developers. The staff has evaluated this on a couple of projects and it does not have a big impact.
 Tree preservation easements are a requirement for large-scale developments, LSIP, and commercial subdivision projects. PRO does not give staff or developers any ideas about what the size should be. This change would require the minimum preservation requirement to be placed in a tree preservation easement if that is available. If not, developers can negotiate with Urban Forestry on the tree preservation easement side.
 The current code requires urban forestry to test and certify anyone working in the city of Fayetteville trimming or removing trees. This was put into place due to the ice storm of 2009. There were a lot of people cutting trees and not doing good work or abiding by best management practices. However, this code is similar to a lawyer passing an employer exam and then having to take another exam to practice law in Fayetteville.
 There are two well-known and respected professional tree industry groups that test and have requirements for continuing education. The new requirement would be that the tree care professionals performing work in Fayetteville be certified by one of the tree care industry groups rather than by the city. This allows the professional organizations to do what they are designed to do and maintains industry standards across the board.
 We periodically work with developers on the timing of their tree installations. We would like to codify something that we work out with them verbally. This would allow developers to delay tree planting for more optimal weather conditions and a different season, which gives trees a better chance for long-term survival.
 A current code allows off-site preservation outside of city limits. In the past five years, no one has used this option. Staff does not have jurisdiction outside city limits and would like to remove this option. This portion of code was brought forth in 2015 in an effort to help a developer who had some code violations. The developer never used this new option. If this is needed in the future, it could be brought through as a variance.
 The last change we are proposing is to add mitigation alternatives to the code. We think this is an opportunity to add some flexibility to infill developments. The idea is that sites that are too tight on space, mainly in the downtown areas, and don't have room for trees, can install a green facade or a green roof.
 There are two types of green rips, intensive and extensive, and both would qualify as a mitigation alternative. One is more complex than the other and has a deeper soil profile. Green walls are exterior or interior walls that have soil cells with plants and an extensive irrigation system.
 Green walls are maintenance-intense. We do not, or we are not considering these for alternatives as they are not sustainable and are very expensive to maintain. However, green facades are vegetative vertical surfaces supported by a trellis system on the exterior of a building or structure. Plants are grown in the ground at the base of the structure or in large planter boxes. An example in town of a green facade is the Spring Street parking deck.
 Lee Porter and John Scott worked with the University of Arkansas to figure out what the equivalent of an extensive green roof, an intensive green roof, and a green facade is to a tree.
 The ratios are that one square foot of a tree is equal to 2.5 square feet of an extensive green roof. One square foot of a tree is equal to 1.4 square feet of an intensive green roof and a green facade. These ratios can be placed in our Excel file development calculator to show what that ratio is and how many square feet of roof or facade is needed for a project.
 In summary, we are proposing six changes to the tree preservation and landscape regulation portions of the code. We have met with a group of developers, landscape architects, and engineers about these changes for their input. We also have worked with the city's urban forestry advisory board on these changes and have their support. Thank you for your time this evening and please let me know if you have any questions.
 Thank you. That's very well done. What questions do we have from the council on this? Or shall we begin? I have a question here. I was told by Blake that the staff had proposed a slightly different exhibit A and exhibit C called A1 and C1. Were you going to discuss that or not? Mr. Mayor, I don't believe Mr. Williams' microphone is on. Zoom attendees I don't think can hear him.
 I never sounded better, did I? Okay. What I said is that I was told by Blake that staff had slightly different exhibits A and C that didn't, that planning didn't agree completely with the planning commission. I just didn't know if that was going to be discussed.
 I can look those up real quickly and discuss them. I don't remember which ones which. I know there was a question at Planning Commission about wording, and I think that was in the definition, is this may not be part of it as far as tree felling and removal of trees.
 And so that has been redefined. And also there was a question about the two tree care industries at Planning Commission. It was brought up that maybe the tree care industry of America or TCIA was not equivalent to ISA in their testing and their certification. And John Scott did research on that and found that it's very similar.
 But I will look through that if you give me a moment, if you have any other questions, and see what I can find as far as those differences. Well, what Blake gave me is one minor change on Exhibit A, talking about priority trees, where the staff had recommended low priority trees or invasive species are unhealthy.
 And the planning commission thought that it should read low priority trees are dead, invasive species are unhealthy. And I, so I, they wanted to add dead in there as a low priority tree.
 And then on the other change was that they just expanded the number of societies that could certify arborists. So it was not only certified arborists, but also municipal arborists, master arborists, and tree workers. And I just didn't know what the staff's position was, if you wanted to pursue that or not.
 Yes, thank you. So my understanding on the low priority trees is I remember that discussion of planning commission and the question of why would anybody have to mitigate for a tree that is dead and I thought we were removing dead trees from the language since that didn't seem to make sense if it's dead why are they having to plant new trees for a dead tree.
 I would need to go back and look at that. I'm not sure why that would still be in there. And then the other thing with the certifying, you know,
 Again, I haven't looked at that language, so I would have to look at that some more and get back with you. I'm sorry I don't have the best answer right now on that. Okay. I understand the discussion about dead trees was that the Planning Commission said, well, someone could go and cut a tree down the slide and then it would be a dead tree.
 However, of course, we have provisions within the tree preservation and protection ordinance that you can't cut down trees like that. If you go and start clearing trees, there are built-in penalties for that. But that was, I think, why the Planning Commission at one point at least thought that a dead tree should be listed as a low priority tree. It's certainly not a high priority tree. So I just don't know what you want to do on that. I'm just passing that along.
 I think it makes sense personally and just the way I've, you know, applied code in the past few years to go ahead and keep the dead tree in there. You know, it was a tree that was providing shade at one point. Sometimes it's hard to pinpoint when it died. We do go back and look at aerial photography for the past five years to see if there has been tree removal that should not have occurred and there are penalties for that.
 But, and honestly this doesn't come up that often. I do a lot of site development reviews and every once, you know, I have one out of every ten projects maybe I have a dead tree in a group that's questionable. And they usually, you know, mitigate it for it at a low priority. I haven't really had people complain about that either, not to say that, you know, someone may not have an issue with it.
 i know john's i'm pretty sure john scott would be in agreement too that it should be mitigated for if it was alive and viable at one point in time obviously it was providing fantasy i mean my office really doesn't have a position this is just staff as opposed to planning commission which language is before the council tonight pardon what language is before the council tonight in the ordinance that is the yeah it's almost identical there are two two very small
 Just the green language there is what is in the staff didn't agree. And one of it is just, are you going to put dead in there as well as invasive species and unhealthy trees? Or are you going to not count a dead tree at all? Right. I'm asking what it is that's before the city council tonight. Are you proposing an amendment? No. Yeah. What the planning commission recommended is what the exhibits say. Okay.
 You know, I'm looking at this and unless I'm looking at it wrong. I'm having just a little bit of trouble. Oh, sorry, I did it again. I'm looking at this and I have exhibit A, which mentions, uses the word dead, and then I have exhibit A1.
 which I think, if I'm looking at it correctly, removes the word dead. That is correct. What are we, I mean, are we supposed to look at these and just weigh them out? Yes, if you don't amend to A1, then A is what you're going to have because that's what the Planning Commission recommended. My belief was staff recommended not to include dead. Okay. I don't want to try and...
 I don't want to try and wordsmith this whole document tonight. Well, this is the only question between staff's recommendation and the Planning Commission. Okay, and it's about the dead tree.
 okay it's correct if you if i may add if you're looking at the exhibits in the packet all those labeled by the alphabet that is what the planning commission forwarded and there are two exhibits that are alpha numeric a1 and c1 those represent the alternative language proposals that that staff has included a1 removing dead trees and c1 addressing the
 the assertion that SAHA is that the additional accreditation group is adequate. So if we want to do A1 and C1, then we need to amend? Yeah, you would have to amend because if you don't amend, it's going to be A and C as recommended by the Planning Commission. Okay. I would like to amend that we adopt A1 and C1 language to clarify for clarity. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. Thank you, Shalom. Thank you.
 uh what discussion do you all want to have with them um i'd like to make a comment um you know to me some of these two um changes may be substantial i just don't know i really need to think about them a lot more and so i'm i'm not going to support the amendment i'd really like to think about it a lot more and how that might play out so that's that's my comment thank you
 Okay, what's everybody else thinking here? Can I get some clarification on exactly where A1 and C1 came from and then where the other amendments or other exhibits came from?
 where did those come from y'all well they'd probably be in your additional uh information not not the text if you're looking at that um they'll follow the actual ordinance itself and not be part of it it's part of the memo i think from uh the staff i know we'll get bogged down i'm sure there's very little chance we'll vote on this tonight but it seems like we need some more time
 I don't disagree with that. I think we need more time too. Just so we have an amendment here that I guess we're going to have to take action on. So I'm just asking for discussion on the amendment right now. I've heard Teresa but what are the... I mean I'm interested, I'm okay to pull the amendment to give people time. So instead of trying to amend something that people aren't quite ready.
 Thank you. Yeah, I agree. I think we just need to kind of hold this right for us. It's on the first reading, and we could go back and make some changes if you want to. I'm just trying to... I'll retract my mid-minute.
 and and so thank you uh mayor what exactly does staff need to do yeah and that's what i'm trying a clean copy of something to the council i think what they need to do is just have some sort of explanation of why they disagree with the planning commission just on those two items and nothing else thank you okay so melissa next time when we discuss we'll have a further explanation of why
 urban forestry and development services at a different interpretation or agreement than the planning commission recommendation okay yeah so i guess we'll just hold this right here if everybody's agreeable to that may i have some questions sure absolutely matthew thank you um
 First, even though I didn't quite follow the A1C1 discussion just now, I did try to do a real careful read through of the memo and the proposed changes. And certainly as far as the intention and the draft, the changes seem justified and straightforward and are going to do what we think they're going to do.
 I had a couple of questions about perhaps what was not included that I wanted to double check on. Sure. I know that we've been talking about revising this for months.
 I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point.
 I wanted to make sure, I didn't see that this proposal closes the lot split and single family and duplex loopholes with respect to tree preservation or any required trees. Did I overlook it?
 no sir you did not um it does not do that however the other stormwater drainage changes that are coming through with code that allen pugh has been working on addresses some of that it ups some requirements for single family for tree preservation that's that's one of the
 menu of options that they can do to address stormwater and tree preservation, if that helps answer the question. Well, it creates more questions for me, but I think I'll have to inquire with Alan so that I can better understand that over the next two weeks. I also read that
 the suggestion, I know I made the suggestion, perhaps I was the only one, but the suggestion that
 Certainly, especially in infill situations that street trees should count and that we should give developers the option to plant street trees up and down the street if they have limited space on the side in addition to the mitigation alternative of the green roofs or living walls. I read in the memo that we had elected not to do that because utilities might come in at a later date
 Did I misread that or was that the determination? I don't know of that memo and I haven't read it myself, so I can't answer on that entirely, but it does make sense that a lot of utilities run along the streets.
 roadways and there are easements there anything in a utility easement is subject to removal at any time We do have street tree requirements in addition to tree preservation and mitigation requirements We do not elect street trees or it says in code that they cannot double as mitigation trees. They have to be separate So I don't all have to check into the rest of that.
 Okay, so I guess here's what I want to explain as of my thinking tonight. To me, this ordinance is worth passing just on the basis that it's going to make things more efficient and it's more straightforward. So full stop on that. However, I think the flip side of that is that this ordinance does not address some of our biggest problems with maintaining our tree canopy for the long haul issue.
 And I think with this new one, we'll continue to see our overall tree canopy decline. Year over year as we had, and I don't mean to say that this ordinance isn't worthwhile. It is. So I'm being real painstaking about, about saying that. But I also want to be fair and clear eyed about our overall tree canopy goals for the city. And I think that's a really important part of what we're doing.
 and recognize for myself and perhaps for staff and the rest of the council that if we want to reverse the trend of a decline in our tree canopy, we will have to do more than what we have on the books now and what is proposed today. Specific to that point, I am suggesting that we have to close the lot split loophole for tree requirements.
 we must require new tree plantings for the lot split loophole if we want to address our canopy concerns. Whether we do that as a part of this proposal or as part of a subsequent proposal, I hope we can do it in haste. The second thing I want to suggest is that for infill properties in particular, applicants should be able to plant additional street trees above that which is required, and those should count as mitigation.
 And applicants should be able to plant street trees on nearby streets, but in front of other properties where we can work those out and where they're appropriate. And those should count as mitigation trees. Street trees provide a lot more benefits than green roofs and walls. And I understand that we can and have justified green roofs and walls as mitigation, but they don't do shading. They don't improve walkability. They...
 perhaps improve some stormwater functions, but that's only a part of the ecosystem services that we get out of trees. And I feel this is extremely important and appropriate given all of our other goals for economic development and comprehensive planning as well as canopy. I'm optimistic that if we could be pretty assertive on these two points that we might at least be able to maintain the current canopy that we have in the city on a long-term basis.
 I suspect if we want to improve our canopy coverage, we'll probably have to engage in an aggressive tree planting campaign. Yes, I agree. But I feel strongly these two items, especially the lot split loophole, are something we need to address sooner rather than later. And, you know, I raise these points now. It's not my intention to hold up the passage of this ordinance.
 I'll defer to staff's decision if we say let's pass this instead of opening up the hood a little bit more and working on it now. But either way, I think we either do it now or we've got to come back soon to do it. I think Melissa has a comment. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yes, thank you. I just wanted to say also that we do allow mitigation trees to be street trees as additional trees. Additional street trees beyond the required street trees. And sometimes they get pretty close to easements. But we are trying, staff's trying to get as many street trees out there as we can. Thank you.
 Okay, thanks. I did think I read in the memo something about how a street tree amendment had been rejected by staff. So let me, I'm going to double check that between now and the next meeting. Thank you. Okay, what else do we have here? And don't get me wrong, I'm not in this rush to pass anything. I want it done correctly, y'all. Just whatever it might take to get it done. So...
 You know, we have to form a committee if we have to do, we've done that before. Well, I think a lot of those issues are going to be coming to the council very quickly with the stormwater and grading and drainage.
 and in fact i think it might be hitting at the next meeting so that's another giant change to our code that is coming that you all will get to look at and also council member petty to your point about uh tree planting and aggressive tree planting programs i know that staff's been working on some uh plans for that to bring during budget discussion yeah i'm sure we need to take public comment i'm sure some folks will want to weigh in on this um
 Okay, let's let, okay. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. If you're in person here at the chambers, please begin to line up and stay six feet apart.
 Zoom comments will be taken first to give people time to line up. You can remove your mask only when speaking and then put it back on once you're finished. So who would like to address this? Jeremy Williams. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yep.
 All right. My name is Jeremy Williams. I live on 1144 Pump Station Road in Fayetteville. I can speak a little bit to the A1 and C1. After the Planning Commission meeting, I had a lengthy discussion with John Scott about those issues, and those were the changes that he promised me would be made.
 And I've sent each one of the council members a letter Monday morning about some of the issues that I have with this change. Overall, I think it's in a very good direction. I was involved in the Urban Forestry Advisory Board in 2013 to 2014. And at that time, there was major resistance to any change. And that's one reason I stopped.
 being involved in that organization just because it's kind of pointless at that point a little bit about myself i'm the only board certified master arborist in the state of arkansas i'm also the vice president of the arkansas urban forestry council uh i just want to go through of the six points three of which i have no issues with i'm very glad to see there's three that i'd like to see a little bit of tweaking to
 First one is 167.04e, which is exhibit A or A1. The difference between those two is dead trees was considered a low-priority tree that needed to be mitigated for.
 One of the planning commissioners said that he was concerned with someone cutting down a tree and now it's quote unquote dead. As the city attorney mentioned, there's specific penalties for that. That's not what this is relating to. One thing that I would like to see on this particular section is keeping the dead tree as not a priority.
 I also feel that dangerous trees should be lumped in the same category because I do a lot of tree surveys for engineering companies. And there's a lot of times where a tree is technically alive, but it's about to fall on somebody if the area is developed. So that would be lumped in with along with invasive species. If we're truly wanting to get rid of invasive species, I don't think they should be of any priority. Lastly, on this topic.
 8 inch diameter, I think is a really small number for making a high priority tree. I would say more like 12 inches would be accurate. An 8 inch diameter tree, if it's a medium or fast growing tree, that's around 10 to maybe 15 years old at most. In the letter that I sent, I included what I would like to see as a motion to change this wording. If you guys have read that, I'd appreciate consideration of that.
 Second, on the tree preservation easement size, I strongly agree that we need some major change on this because there is no clarification on this whatsoever to developers or staff. My only concern would be jumping into the full 10 to 30 percent of the property. I see on the private side a lot of times these easements don't get maintained because
 And so it'd be a lot easier to maintain them if there's a smaller section of the property as a dedicated easement where you don't have to go to city council and get permission to do anything with it. That's just one more step.
 The other thing is on the density of planting. Like, say you medicate a high-priority tree that's 200 trees per acre. If they're any size tree, you're going to have to thin those out when they get 20 to 40 years old. Those would technically be healthy. So you'd have to go to city council, get requests to remove those, even though it's actually going to help the long term.
 So I would make a motion or I can't make a motion, but strongly consider like a 25-50 percent of the tree preservation of the area for tree preservation easement. On the last thing is the pruner certificate. Please read my letter on that. This currently has no teeth to it. There's been a lot of issues in the past. Kit Williams has been involved with that where staff has not followed this.
 And in the original iteration, I would not be allowed to recognize, I would not be recognized with my certifications. And so that's kind of, I have some strong personal feelings, but as it sits right now on the C1, I'm okay with that. I'd be glad to answer any questions. Okay. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address this? Steve Clark. Okay, go ahead. Steve went away. Will Dockery. Okay.
 Will Dockery, 4149 West Bright Street Lane. I am the current chair of the Urban Forestry Advisory Board. I was kind of hoping we could pass this tonight. If you don't know, we've...
 been working on this for over three years uh when i was appointed to the board there was uh it was definitely a lot of the council members had concerns about this so we went through we noticed that it hadn't been updated in a long time and so we put we went through and this is really whittled
 More than 50% down from what the urban forestry advisory board put forward so I can definitely understand why Council members have some concerns and why they might want to go back through it I definitely understand where Jeremy Williams is coming from and some of those those issues like I said, this is this is not necessarily the ordinance that I would like to see passed but I think it's definitely an ordinance that needs it needs to be passed at this point and
 When we talk about our tree canopy, we know from multiple studies that 40% is really the minimum of what we need for the tree canopy in the city. And that's averaged out over the city and right now we're at about 33% and that's come down from. It's we're roughly losing about a percent a year. Somewhere around there per year so.
 Justin Cappos- I think if we really want to get up to that 40%, then Justin Cappos- We need to really look at some of the percentages that are allowed per code in each zoning designation. And that is something that the tree board had talked about that is not in this
 But I am definitely excited that we do have those alternative mitigative requirements so that in our more dense zones where trees might not necessarily fit because of our road design standards, that there's still an option to have some canopy coverage, some to make it so it's not a total heat island effect in some of our more dense areas.
 Just to talk about one thing with that 8 inch diameter rest height. Though, this kind of gets into where we're trying to make the code really tight and
 and succinct but the problem is is that with a slow growing tree that an eight inch diameter height does end up being a a large tree or some of our understory trees those are extremely large trees whereas for some of our overstory trees that's for a fast growing tree that's not any that's not a big deal at all so uh that's kind of a problem with our language where we're trying to make it succinct but also
 but also cover a wide range of trees, which an oak, a very fast growing pin oak versus a very slow growing dogwood
 the difference between eight inches of diameter is a huge amount of years. So that's something to think about there too. And also I do agree with Jeremy Williams about with the invasives. There have been some projects here where based on our current code we've had developers preserve tree of heaven stands and
 Bradford pear stands, which is, as you know, we are trying very hard to fight those invasive species and in fact have been recognized by the country for our efforts in trying to eradicate Bradford pear. So I think there's a lot of parts where we could still improve the code here. I think that there's probably another ordinance that where we could go and increase a lot of these amazing parts to make.
 it better but I also think that we need to focus on getting something out here now as opposed to just waiting for maybe months because like I said this is over 36 months of work to get it to this point. Thank you. Thank you. Who else wants to address? Steve Clark. Okay go ahead. Steve I think you look good to go if you can go ahead.
 Well, we're not going to pass it tonight anyway. Well, we can't hear Steve if he's speaking. Okay. Well, shall we go on? I guess we shall. So, well, we're still, I'll bring you back to the council. You got anybody else? Okay. Okay. Let's try it again. Steve, are you going to be able to talk? Okay.
 I don't know what's wrong. First time I've seen Steve, I had a loss of words. Sorry Steve, we're not able to hear you. It's alright. It's okay. So, I'm going to bring it back to the council and I don't think we're quite ready yet. So we're leaving it on the first? For right now, unless the council wishes to plow on through.
 Mayor, I would hope that we could leave it on the first reading if everybody would agree to that so we can take all the great comments that have been made tonight and digest those and really evaluate this a little bit better in the next two weeks. I don't disagree with that. I can see some stuff that's been brought up tonight. I think we need to go back and look at it.
 I agree with that. Okay. Well, let's just leave it right here and move on to the last item. Okay. All right. Number 10, an ordinance to amend 155.04, Councilmember appeal on behalf of resident to provide for an appeal of every planning commission determination or decision involving development or other provision within the Unified Development Code. Okay.
 uh whereas a city council member on behalf of the city resident should be able to appeal every planning commission decision or determination related to development of or other provision within the unified development code to the city council now therefore be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amend section 15504 by repealing it in its entirety
 and enacting the following to replace the language as follows. A council member may bring an appeal on behalf of any resident of the City of any decision or determination by the Planning Commission related to development or other provision within the Unified Development Code to the City Council.
 Planning Commission decisions that are part of the development process such as parkland dedication or money in lieu decisions variances compliance with actual design standards tree preservation plans and conditions of approval for any development and shall be Appealable as part of the approval of the development proposal and may not be appealed until that time Okay, trace it. I
 yes thank you mayor um as i mentioned um at the agenda session um i brought this forward because i discovered that uh parkland uh dedication and the in fee money in lieu of decisions were not appealable from the planning commission to the city council
 And I wondered if there were other items that were overlooked. Maybe they were minor items, but that they also were not appealable to the city council. And I feel that every decision or important decisions by planning commission should be appealable by a city council member on behalf of a resident of our city.
 And I went back through and right now I'll just read off what is appealable, what is currently appealable, which is a lot of things.
 And again, I view this as a minor change, not a major change. But right now, subdivision requests, flats, lot splits, development requests, including large-scale developments and larger small site improvement plans, variances, compliance with applicable design standards, tree preservation plans, and conditions of approval for any development are appealable right now. So...
 You know, that was my rationale for this, my justification for it. I just, and if you, I know that Councilmember Petty requested that developmental services offer an opinion and therefore politicize their position in some ways. And I think that was actually really an unfortunate consequence of his request.
 Most of the appeals that we've seen to the city council that I can think of in the last six months or a year have been by developers and not by citizens, not by council members on behalf of residents. They've been by developers. So this proposal before you is really just balancing, being able to balance developers' appeal ability and those of the citizens. Okay.
 And I'm happy to take any questions that you all may have. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? I have one. Okay. I'm collecting my thoughts and have more to say, but the idea that soliciting research from staff is inappropriate
 just strikes me as a double standard. We've seen good well-researched ordinances before this council before that have received a negative vote just on the hunch that enough research hasn't been done and here we have a significant change, I'll avoid using the word major or minor, a significant change to the development review process that's proposed without even inquiring
 with the staff that we hire and treat as experts in the process. So it strikes me as a double standard. Calling asking, saying that asking for a staff perspective is politicizing the issue, I think is just trying to avoid the issue itself being called political. That's what it seems like to me is that this is kind of a double standard in an ordinance form. I just...
 You know, where my imagination goes, if what if John Latour was still on the council and he had this ordinance in place and he could use it.
 Okay. What other questions do we have from the council? I have a question Mr. Mayor. Okay. Teresa, you had, you pointed out that this, if I'm understanding you correctly, if I heard you correctly, you're saying that this is a relatively small change.
 you're you're stating that all of the appeals or a lot of the appeals have been made on behalf of developers and not citizens are you anticipating that this so-called small change is suddenly going to open a floodgate of appeals by by citizens because citizens have the right to
 you know, within reason, they have the right to appeal a lot of things as well. So are you anticipating that this is going to change? You know, you want this to balance out, but if citizens aren't appealing certain things, I don't understand how this so-called relatively small change is suddenly going to create a lot of citizen appeals. Please address that for me.
 Thanks for the question. No, I don't anticipate a floodgate of citizen appeals. I point out that because of development staff's concern that this would clog up the system and slow things down and developers need a predictable cycle,
 So those kinds of words were used, that kind of language is used. And I was like, but there haven't been very many citizen appeals. So this is simply balancing the process, the opportunity, if there was some concern by citizens to allow them to appeal by a city council member, through a city council member to appeal that decision. So no, I don't anticipate...
 A floodgate. I really, the only one that really caught my attention again was the parkland dedication in the, in lieu of fee. That was the primary one. And I thought there may be a whole lot of others that I was unaware of. It sounds like from the concern that's being raised by Council Member Petty, that maybe there are other ones that I'm just not aware of. Because as I read off this list, I mean, it's fairly comprehensive right now.
 I also have a few other comments here about our process. I'm not exactly sure how long we have had a planning commission, but I believe it's been, oh, you know, five or six years anyway at least. It's been a long time that we've had a planning commission. And the role of planning commission is pretty straightforward and cut and dried, and they're supposed to operate –
 You know, they're supposed to operate, they perform this vital role and they're supposed to be unbiased in their decisions. And you know, Teresa, you and I are on nominating committee together. And we've, you know, many times we've had, we've butted heads about people that go on the planning commission. And I'm always saying that there's a real learning curve when you get on planning commission that you know, you have a lot to learn,
 you know, fairly quickly and, you know, it's, you know, you're filling this important role. But I do believe that addressed in the comments from staff, I think they really hit a lot of the marks that I think are extremely important about our planning commission. Thank you.
 One is the knowledge, the specialized knowledge, and you know we've talked about that learning curve before. It's steep and when you serve on planning commission, it's not something you take lightly. It's not something that is frivolous. It's a lot of detail and a lot of reading and a lot of study and a lot of learning. And so I am, I don't always agree with the planning commissions.
 votes and their decisions, but I agree with their ability to make these decisions because we cannot make decisions on everything ourselves and there are certain things I believe that the Planning Commission and the subdivision committee and any of the other, you know subcommittees of Planning Commission can help us with you know, do a better job for our job on council and
 It's, you know, if we're not going to let them have any authority, then I don't really understand their purpose. If we're going to take on, you know, every single detail on planning commission, um,
 i i think that uh you know the process i've described is lengthy uh you know things get tabled at planning commission many many times there's a great deal discussion and it's not on a wide variety of topics like we have on excuse me on council it's very deep a deep dive into
 elements of development and planning and tree ordinance and all of the things that you just talked about Teresa but they review everything in detail and there is the ability to modify anything that comes through Planning Commission and in the letter from staff it talks about the amendment process and I'd like to tell you exactly how that's a real important process to Planning Commission
 you know, it's worked and worked and worked through. And I don't really, you know, I have concerns about changing this.
 And I really feel that saying that it's, that asking staff for a recommendation and then when they make that recommendation that that's a, that politicizes their position, I think that's a real unfortunate choice of words and a little, little disrespective to staff because we can't, we have to trust people to provide us with the best information possible and I think that's what staff did.
 in their view of the role of planning commission. And they advise us on so many other things. So I don't know how I feel about this change. I'm kind of leaning against it, but I just wanted you to know where I was coming from on this. Thank you.
 And I appreciate your perspective and agree with the role of the Planning Commission. They make some really, really important decisions and good recommendations to us. My proposal is really to provide the opportunity equally.
 for developers or citizens. So that's really what this is all about. And what I would really appreciate hearing is some items that you think could clog the system up, some specifics that a city council member on behalf of a citizen
 could really throw the planning commission process for a loop or really a problem, because I'm not seeing it. So maybe if I better understood what your concerns were, I could think that and address those or understand your perspective better.
 I do actually have some questions. So most of the things that are appealable right now take two council members to appeal. Is that correct, Kip? No, it only takes a single council member to appeal unless it is a contingent of use, and then that takes three. But everything else is just a single council member may appeal, just like a single council member may bring an agenda item to the rest of the council. It doesn't require a second person.
 Okay, thank you. Speaking of the citizens, I've had several people reach out to me and one of the comments they believe that this is about slowing down construction projects and politicizing technical decisions the planning commission is charged to do.
 It's an insult to past and current members of the Planning Commission. We have a housing crisis. Delaying projects does nothing but add cost to the purchaser, and this is an attempt to give people who have the unrealistic belief that if we fight development, it will stop.
 Another tool to hang up and hurt projects. This will add cost to the construction process of housing. Housing sale prices since 2010 have increased by 43% in Fayetteville. This is a full-blown crisis and we should be doing everything we can to aid in the development of appropriate housing, not hurt it. The city has operated for a long time without this measure and so I don't think I'll be supporting it.
 So, Councilmember Jones, I would ask again, which specific part will change? Because right now, all of those things, large-scale developments, subdivision, all the variances, all of those can be appealable right now under the current law that we have, under the current ordinance we have in place. Any other questions on that?
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Name and address. Federal residence first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, folks, please...
 line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart. Zoom comments will be heard first, give people time to line up. You may remove your mask only when speaking and then please put it back on. So who would like to address us from the public? Paula Marinoni. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. This is Paula Marinoni. I live at 617 West Lafayette Street in Fayetteville.
 I want to thank Jonathan for his comments that he took the time to write up. I agree with, I think, everything that he had to say. In particular, the issue of time. This ordinance appears to be another hurdle for developers. Time is very sensitive in development issues.
 We already have so many hoops that they have to jump through. And I have been trying to get developers big development. I don't mean like a fast food place or something. I mean big development.
 trying to get them to come to Fayetteville for greater than 15 years. And just recently got our farm rezoned, the Maranoni property out at Weddington and I-49. Thank you all for passing that. But I want to say that I really want to, with this,
 ordinance that's brought up to use it as an opportunity to ask you to reconsider the Fayetteville narrative. As long as I've been back 26 years, Fayetteville has pretty much got a reputation as being a difficult place to develop. At times, anti-development. Certainly some citizens are very hostile.
 and it's ongoing hostility. And you mentioned that there's an economic development plan. I haven't seen that, but if it is anything, it hasn't hit the street. And you can't just have one person do a plan and call it good. Fayetteville needs to really rethink where it sits in the market in Northwest Arkansas as far as commercial real estate.
 We're getting ready to experience an influx of climate refugees, not just individuals looking for homes, but people wanting to relocate their businesses. How many times do they need to get wiped out with floods in Houston or coastal cities or fires or whatever? And they're going, hey, let's just pull up this whole thing and move it.
 So when those climate refugees come, they're going to want amenities. We've got parks, we've got all that covered. But what commercial amenities do we have and how are we competing with the rest of northwest Arkansas? We've spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on master plans over the 26 years that I've been here, and we need to as a city,
 spend time thinking, okay, how are we all ambassadors to bringing big quality commercial amenities to Fayetteville? And I have told you before that
 I'm sure you don't want to hear this, but there's representatives in the city who have crashed deals that I've had multiple, multiple times to the point where you all saw the picture of our farm. It's beautiful. It's green. There's cows and everybody thinks it's great. And there's rabbits and such. If I hadn't have had deals crashed by.
 staff and Well, not City Council or Planning Commission staff from the city of Fayetteville that whole thing would be developed to now and it would be Spectacular. I've had some great things over time so
 I really invite you to think about that. And there is the perception that you keep trying to make development more difficult in Fayetteville. And in real estate, perception is reality. Like if somebody's looking at a property and there's the perception of this going on or whatever, they're not going to say anything to you. They just leave.
 And that's what I've experienced. I mean, like the people that just leave and you as city council people and mayor, won't you ever know that they were even here looking? They just see this stuff going on and leave. So with Walmart not too long ago.
 realize that they need to up the game in Bentonville to recruit top personnel. And I invite you to consider that for Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Steve Clark. Okay. Yes, ma'am. Can you hear me? Yes. All right.
 I'm going to turn it over to the chair. Thank you. Thank you. The chair would like to tell you that we have great concerns about this proposal. We have a lot of confidence in the planning commission and that staff as well. We believe that the issues that need to be addressed are getting addressed. But we do believe that as Paula has stated so eloquently, the perception that we're making development more difficult
 widely held and widely discussed. And as we try to recruit bigger companies, better jobs, paying better salary, better than $15 an hour, better than $20 an hour,
 If those that are going to look at us as a development site and as a home site for their business, if they do believe or even perceive that we're trying to hinder that development process by adding days to it. They're not gonna come here, Paul's exactly right. They just won't say anything. They'll smile and thank you and they'll be gone and you will never know. And so we've had a lot of discussions among our board.
 about this idea and we we're just don't see that um it's necessary and we don't see that it will be provide any relief to um what is stated to be um a concern it's just that from our perspective the um
 Fine commission does a very fine job. They work really hard, and they ask a lot of good questions, and those questions are very important in the decision about whether to recommend a project for development. And certainly from the Chamber's perspective, we have not always agreed with all those decisions.
 They shouldn't be making them to we agree with them. They should be making them so they're the best interest of our community. We think they do that. We think they work very hard to do that. And when they get it wrong, or if someone thinks there's some questions that weren't answered, then that gets appealed to the Council.
 And whether that appeal comes from a developer or a citizen is really not the relevant issue. The relevant issue is, has there been a policy decision that was overlooked or misunderstood or misapplied so that it affects the great city of Fayetteville?
 We think they do a very good job. We don't think there's any reason to change this so that you get this opportunity to allow anyone who thinks anything has been done that is not in accordance with what their faith or beliefs are in the sense of how development should be done. You can just say, well, I'm going to try to get a city council member to appeal this for me.
 So we make the accountability to the Planning Commission's excellent. We think the accountability to the council is excellent We would strongly urge you not to make this change. Okay. Thank you Who else would like to address? Kyle Smith Thank you, ma'am No, try
 It's interesting that this conversation started tonight with the term political or politicized already being thrown around like it's a derogatory word. It literally means policy, which is the job of the City Council. City Council is elected to make the policy. That's our development codes and where we apply them via the zoning law. The Planning Commission is appointed by you all.
 Just to ensure the compliance with the policies that you've set. They don't create new policies, so they do sometimes advise on the policies they're familiar with, like the ones you discussed tonight regarding child care and trees. But I believe Councilmember Bunch used the word apolitical to refer to them, and that's the way it should be.
 In our city codes, the appeals processes are clearly intended to provide an opportunity to correct technical mistakes if they happen on the planning commission's part, though generally the City Council does a phenomenal job of appointing professional planning commissioners who are competent to follow the policies you set. Generally, mistakes are pretty rare.
 Appeals should not be used as a door to open a door to debate policies themselves or to impose discretionary decision-making. That's dangerous, legally speaking. And yet it's often the discussion that takes place during an appeal. Easy appeals are what politicize matters that otherwise are questions of technical compliance.
 Easy appeals put mathematics questions and engineering questions in the crosshairs of the loudest and most influential members of our community, usually our vocal minority, with an interest in stake. Easy appeals create longer processes where every decision is really just preliminary, waiting for the next body to decide.
 change it or approve of it. And new home buyers are going to bear the brunt of that whenever the costs and delays, additional risks are rolled into what's an already skyrocketing market for housing prices. There have been some other changes to appeals lately. They've gotten easier. Your meetings have gotten longer right along with them. It's interesting to
 It's tempting to exercise that ultimate control over the final decisions, but really, you shouldn't be using individual developments to debate the policies. You're the only ones with power to change them. So if you don't like the policies the planning commissioners are following, change them. That's the right way to go around it.
 Please, please vote against this and do it tonight. It's not a question or a debate that needs to be drug on the FAD policy. Thanks. Thank you. Who else? Jeremy Williams. Jeremy Williams. Okay, go ahead.
 Jeremy Williams spoke a little bit earlier, 1144 Palm Station Road. I hadn't really planned on speaking on this topic, but just kind of like to echo Kyle's comments that we don't want to unnecessarily draw out issues and make developing in Fayetteville even more expensive than it currently is. I know as a business owner here in Fayetteville that just went through planning commission.
 It's not an easy process. It's very thorough. And it's a lot more expensive than if I had done it in Springdale or Lowell or anywhere else. Also, the commercial property values in Fayetteville are dramatically dropping. The property that I bought in 2019, according to the appraisal we got a couple days ago, dropped $50,000.
 And so I'm still trying to figure out the rationale behind that when everything else is rising, but that's just a personal anecdote that I thought was might be applicable. Um, that's really all I got to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, well, I'm going to bring this back to the council now. And there you go. What's the wishes of the council?
 I want to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Is that where we are? Yeah, we're on the first reading. This is an ordinance. Second. Okay. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes. In order to amend Section 15504, Councilmember appeal on behalf of resident to provide for an appeal of every planning commission determination or decision involving development or other provision within the Unified Development Code. If there aren't any questions, I'll suspend the rules and ask that we go to the third reading. Second. I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Second.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Herb? Yes. In Orders to Amend Section 165.04, Councilmember appeal on behalf of resident to provide for an appeal of every Planning Commission determination or decision involving development or other provision within the Unified Development Code. Okay. What final comments do we have in the Council?
 I have a final comment. Okay. There's been a bit said, and I don't want to repeat it, but I do think a couple of things bear repeating in my own words. First, I believe strongly that the burden of proof is on the ordinance sponsor to show that the ordinance is necessary and not on other council members to prove that their negative vote is the right thing. Second, I think that there is a presumption that,
 that the Planning Commission is unfair because sometimes they make votes that go against the public comments that have been received. I also believe strongly that the Planning Commission is generally what you get when you remove politics from the process. How many times have each of us, being honest with ourselves,
 been looking at a vote, and also because it's our job and it's the right thing to do, considered what people feel is the right thing to do, even if it goes against the plan or the policy, and oftentimes make that decision on the basis of the timing isn't right, or it simply doesn't feel right. The planning commission is appointed so that they are not
 burdened by those considerations. And I think that's an important part of our process so that we can be fair to future generations that don't have a voice. I believe that strongly and passionately. All the Planning Commission gets to do is apply our policies.
 How many times have they butted heads with the city attorney or sighed in frustration in a meeting because they've been advised that the only purview they have is to apply the policies on the books?
 I have experienced the same frustrations as a council member, especially in my early years, when I would meet with staff and I would ask staff, why did you make this decision? We all know this law is outdated and bad. And staff would tell me it's the council's policy
 and our job is to follow the policy on the book. And it took me years before I realized that it was my job to change the law. The last thing I want to say is another anecdote from my early years. I didn't know that it was important for me to reach out to council members and establish relationships when I was new. Don Maher counseled me that relationships were like bank accounts.
 And sometimes you thought you might need to make a withdrawal, but you needed to make sure you had things on deposit first. And I really took part and followed that advice as much as I can. And I feel like I do a diligent job of reaching out to establish relationships or even friendships with other council members. And I feel that that has been missing.
 in some instances among the council we have today. Perhaps because of the pandemic or perhaps because I haven't done my job as a senior member. I say that in self-reflection because I remember an instance once where I quipped that council member Shirley Lucas was trying to extort a developer over driveway designs. And I thought it was just a quip that sounded good and would help me make my point.
 Bobby Farrell, who was a right-wing corporate council member, and I was the young 24-year-old hot shot coming out of the council, took me aside and told me that what was insensitive and I needed to reflect upon it. I called Shirley Lucas and apologized and told her that I was sorry and I wanted to learn the lesson. I confess I'm having a hard time, not personally, that my suggestion,
 that we do research with our hired staff is politicizing the process. I wish I wasn't taking it personally, but I am. And I wish we had a better relationship. Okay. What are the final comments that we have in council? Well, I guess I'd like to respond just briefly because I think my ordinance, my proposed ordinance has been misunderstood.
 And so maybe I did not use the best choice of words. I've thought that this was, I continue to assert that this is a very minor change, a very minor change. And this is certainly not in any way an attack on the planning commission.
 As Councilmember Bunch mentioned, I serve on the nominating committee with her. I think we have an excellent planning commission. This was not to second guess them. This was merely if a citizen
 did not agree with the decisions that they had made, and they would still have to ask a council member to sponsor them, to sponsor their appeal. So I just want to make very, very clear to everybody that this was in no way an attack on the planning commission or the job that they do. I know they work very long. They'll work very hard. They do the deep dive into the designs and the data's and the detail. So, um,
 I think tonight has been a real mischaracterization of my intent and what this proposed ordinance does, would do, if passed. Thanks. Teresa, I really appreciate that clarification there. I know this is something you feel very strongly about, although I still don't agree with it. I really appreciate your making that clear to us. Thank you. Okay, anybody else?
 Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? No. Gutierrez? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Fudge? No. Turk? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. Susan, do you have any announcements or anything? I have two announcements.
 Three, sorry. So last weekend, in case residents weren't aware, our Walker Park Splash Pad opened on last Saturday and remains open. The Wilson Park Swimming Pool will open on Saturday, May 29th. And the Gully Park Concert Series commences on Thursday, June 24th. That's all. Thank you. Any other announcements from the council?
 Mayor, I have an agenda session request for the city attorney. Okay. I recuse tonight out of an abundance of caution, and that has always been my practice, anytime that there may be an interpretation. Okay.
 that I might exert undue influence, even when a rezoning was simply occurring down the street. It has come to my attention that there may have been a property transaction being negotiated to be operated as a short-term rental during the discussions of the short-term rental.
 I don't really have evidence for that, but I do think it would be appropriate for us to have an overview orientation presentation at the next agenda session on when recusing or extension is appropriate or necessary for council members. Would you be willing to give us that presentation? I would be happy to do that. I will say that any time that there is a regulation that you would be passing or looking at that affects
 you, but also everybody as a general rule. For example, when we had the no smoking ordinance and we had one of our members own the bar, he was not precluded from voting on whether or not to ban smoking just because it would affect his bar or his business because it was a general ordinance and it would affect everything. And in fact, if you didn't have that rule, you could never vote for the budget because you get paid out of the budget
 But I will be happy to go into much more detail like that. In my view, I appreciate what you did tonight on that, you know, to remove any chance of anybody making any kind of misunderstanding about whether you had a conflict of interest. If you had asked me before, I would say you don't have a conflict of interest. The way I can see it, the way you explained it.
 But I will be happy to try to go into that in more detail if you want me to, maybe an agenda session or something like that. Yes, thank you. I think a 10-minute or so presentation would be sufficient. Thank you, Kit. Okay. If there's not anything else, thank you all very much. We're adjourned.