I want to call to order the May 16, 2017 City Council meeting. Sondra, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Tennant. Here. Bunch. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. First order of business we have tonight is the Ozark Regional Periodic Report. Who has that tonight? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, my name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the Public Information Officer for Ozark Regional Transit.
 We've got some good and the bad and the ugly tonight. The ugly is that our ridership is down quite a bit. We are down 20% for the year and 20% comparatively for the month of April in Fayetteville and across the board. We feel like the reasons behind that is largely due to the fire we suffered back on January 10th.
 A lot of people think of the buses that we lost, but we also lost the bicycle racks, we lost the fare boxes, we lost the Wi-Fi equipment, we've lost the GPS tracking that helps people find the bus route system and the buses and the shelters.
 And believe me, our IT guy was probably the most upset person there because he put a lot of sweat equity into getting all that stuff working together and to lose 80% of it was devastating especially to IT.
 We do have a lot of good things going on. We have finally turned over all the data that Google required to set up Google Transit. So now when you go to Google Maps, you can click on the little icon that's shaped like a bus, and it will direct you how to get from your location to the location that you plug in, whether it's walking, riding a bike, using the bus system or whatever. We have...
 been contacted by the Walton Family Foundation. Actually this was back in 2016, but it's starting to show.
 We are conducting a survey with a consultant out of Austin, Texas, for a light bus rapid transit that will go the proposed route of 71 Business, starting off in south of Fayetteville and all the way up to north Bentonville. And what light bus rapid transit is, is basically what we're looking for is 12 buses at any one given time, six going north, six going south, with 50-minute headways at the transit stations. So it's the cheapest way of moving a lot of people around.
 longer distance. So that survey is supposed to wrap up June 30th and then we will work to figure out what we're going to do going forward from that and I will certainly report back on that.
 The last thing I have is just that we are going to do the Kids Ride Free campaign again this summer. So kids 17 and under ride our buses for free. We service several aquatic centers and libraries and the malls. And so we're encouraging kids 17 and under or 12 and under cannot ride without an older guardian. But hopefully that will save some of the parents around northwest Arkansas some chaperoning and some transportation.
 Chauffeuring is what I meant to say, not chaperoning. With that, I'll leave it for any questions or comments or concerns. What questions do we have, Counsel? Anything? Please set up a time to come in and see me about your situation. I'm sorry? Come in and see me. We'll set up a time where we can meet. I want a little more detail on that. Okay. Okay? Certainly. All right. All right. Thank you all. All right. Thank you. All right.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a report of the first quarter of 2017, so it's through February of this year. At that time, the general fund was up.
 $250,000 compared to the budget, the over budget. That's due to a 3.6% increase in sales tax. That's down a little bit from last year, but that's still a very, very good showing. And remember, as we saw the results that came after that, sales tax is rather volatile this year, ups and downs.
 We've committed on the budget side roughly 30% of the budget. Now that's because we've got some large contracts committed for the entire year. But that's about where I would look for it at this point in time. So we're doing well in the general fund. If I look at the street fund, the street fund is up about 11% in revenue. That's $130,000. This is being driven by the half-cent gallon tax.
 for fuel and so that's good. We're up about $130,000 compared to last year through that. That budget's committed to about 28%, which is where I would expect it. So Street Fund is doing pretty well so far.
 Parking fund as of February was up about 5% for parking revenue. Expenditures were about where I would expect them to be at this point in time. Park development fund is up 4%.
 So far this year, now that's down a little bit to what it was last year. Remember last year we ended the year with about a 7.6% increase in revenue. So that's leveling off a little bit, but 4% is still pretty strong. And again, they've committed about a quarter of their budget, which is where we would expect them to be at the end of the first quarter.
 Water and sewer through February was up in usage by 10%. Now, part of this is a 3% increase in rates, but also in usage. And if we remember, at least through February, we were still pretty dry. So that will change the next quarter, I'm sure. Our expenses, again, there are about 25% of the budget. So that's what I would expect it to be.
 Recycling, trash and recycling, revenue there was up 8% over last year.
 That equates to about $200,000 over what the budget is at this point in time. But let's all put that in consideration and take that in the view that we did budget a potential loss of over $400,000 in the fund. So that's good news for the trash and recycling fund. Airport funds up about 10% on fuel sales this year to 2020.
 equates to approximately $16,000 so far through the first quarter. Their expenses are about 30% committed. And remember, they've got some long-term contracts, especially for fuel, so that's up. So at this point in time, we're holding our own, doing very well. We're increasing, certainly in the general fund, by about 3%.
 We're not up as much as we were last year, but we're still positive for the year, and I'm looking forward to some good results in the next quarter. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Thank you. All right. Next order of business is the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the May 2, 2017 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment recognizing a scholarship received by the Purchasing Division from the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing in the amount of $2,500. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 17-28 an approved contract with DFI Technologies Incorporated for one year's mailing services at an approximate cost of $1,000.
 $279,369 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 17-31 to authorize contract with Foundation Specialties Incorporated in the amount of $34,918 for the installation of micropile foundations for the Cato Springs Trail Bridge number three, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,491.80.
 Number five, a resolution to award RFP 17-11 and to authorize a contract with Challenger Teamwear for the purchase of youth soccer uniforms in the amount of $14.96 plus applicable taxes per uniform for the fall 2017 and spring 2018 seasons. With an automatic renewal at the same price for the fall of 2018 and spring 2019 seasons.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding between the City of Federal and the City of Johnson's transfer control operation, ownership and maintenance of the traffic signal at Joyce Boulevard and Wilkerson Street intersection in Johnson.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize the purchase of Cisco Systems Incorporated data communications products and services through authorized resellers pursuant to a state of Arkansas and western states contract and alliance national association of procurement officials contract. We'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tinnit? Yes. Vance? Yes. Okay. Mr. Mayor, as you're aware, we have a public hearing scheduled for this evening on a raise
 person who's a property that asked that this be tabled or asked that he get an opportunity to table this. So I would ask that you suspend the rules so we can go straight to the public hearing. Okay. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and move the public hearing up to the head of unfinished business. Al? I second that. We have a motion and a second to move this item ahead of unfinished business. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tannin? Yes. Bynes? Yes. Okay. Go ahead and read it. All right, I will read it. A resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Howard and Rosetta Harmon located at 265 West Nonamaker Drive in the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment. Mr. Harmon, can you come forward? Yes. Mr. Harmon, can you come forward?
 I understand Mr. Harmon, you want to table this item? I just wanted to continue this until next meeting, which was June 6th. Okay. Is that okay? Is there any questions of Mr. Harmon on this? Everybody good? Okay. I would just ask the reason for his request. Yes. What was that? The reason for your request. I had an operation and I'm not in a position to do this fully. I just got out of the doctor's office.
 The day before yesterday. Thank you. Okay. We will probably need a motion to table, correct? That's correct. Sarah? So moved. We have a second. John? Seconded, Mayor. We have a motion and a second to table this item for two weeks, correct? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Let me get the motion and second in there. Sure, absolutely. We're not in any hurry.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 If we could go ahead and consider that and add it to the agenda, I move that we move forward on that. I guess my question would be where would you like to put it on the agenda? At the front. Okay. Mr. Harmon, your item has been tabled, so you can leave. Thank you, Mr. Harmon. We will see you in two weeks. Three weeks, I'm sorry. Okay. All right. Allen? I second Mark's motion. Okay. So you're going to put it in the first order? Yes. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, let me read the resolution. A resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewage system beyond the city limits and to a proposed development near Humont Road and Lowry Lane.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. If you remember, on April 11th, the Water and Sewer Committee heard a request from Mr. Justin Cullors, who is a representative for the proposed development located just outside the city limits near Humont Road and Lerley Lane. Mr. Cullors at that time presented a request to receive sewer service for this proposed development.
 It should be noted that section 51.113 of the city code does not allow the extension of sewer service outside the city except for approval by the city council. The committee and the staff also discussed the city's policies at the meeting related to growth and development on the fringes of the city and that this proposed development would be in conflict with those policies. After discussion, the committee voted three to one to forward this to the city council for consideration with a recommendation for approval.
 And, of course, you know, it was tabled at the May 3rd council meeting. Okay. Is the applicant here? If you'd like to say a few words to the council, and we'll get into all kinds of questions. Mayor, council, good evening. Thank you for taking the time to get us on the agenda. I know there was some work there at the last minute to get that put on, so I appreciate the time.
 My name is Justin Cullors. We're proposing to do a single-family home subdivision on some existing family property on the west side of town adjacent to Lyerly Lane subdivision and Clapper Creek phase... I'm not sure what phase, 5 or 6 or 7, whatever that is. And in between just our neighbor to the west, which is Hume-Mount Village subdivision. Single-family homes...
 We're in the initial design process right now. Final design will, of course, depend on whether we end up with sewer services or septic system, collective septic system on site, varying between 50 and 70 lots. Got to visit with most of you out on site yesterday. I saw the property in person, so if there's any questions or concerns I can address at this time, I'd be more than happy to.
 What questions do we have in the city council for the staff or the applicant? Mayor? Yes, Mark. The Water Steward Committee agreed to send this forward without a recommendation but for discussion. Okay, thank you. John? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Cullors, tell those of us gathered here tonight where in relation to your property, the subject property of this resolution...
 is there sewer connections? Are there sewer connections? Yes, sir. Am I subject to a verb agreement here? Yes, there's actually, adjacent to our property, there are two sewer connections to the east at the Lyerly Lane subdivision and at the Claver Creek subdivision. They'd be to the northeast on the Lyerly Lane side, to the southeast on the Claver Creek side, and a Hughmount Village subdivision.
 They were granted water and sewer services a couple of years ago from the city. So there's actually a manhole access right there at the, well it would be the southwest portion of our property. So the sewer connections are very close or indirect? They're contiguous to your property? Yes sir. As well as water services. There's actually a six inch main that loops all the way around both points of ingress and egress.
 essentially on three sides of this property, available water service, and essentially on two sides, available sewer service. Mr. Cullors, do you think it would be better for our environment if we put our raw sewage into a system where it goes through treatment before it's released into the environment, or if we just put it into a...
 septic system that just leaches out into the ground, which would be a more sanitary system. Yes, sir. We believe that that was our reason for requesting sewer service initially on this development, given the requested density. We are uphill directly from Clapper Creek.
 you know with proper permitting we can do a collective on-site step system or collective septic system. It's our preference from environmental standpoint to provide sewer service. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. I will take some public comment. Thank you Mr. Cole. Thank you. And everybody gets one turn to microphone unless a council member brings you back.
 Keep your comments to me. Don't engage a council member or anybody from the public. Let's stay courteous and give us your name and your address, Yolanda. Okay, good evening. Yolanda Fields. I live at 3034 Humont Road. I'm on the northeast boundary of a project that was proposed that was not approved by the county. So I'm a little bit confused what project we're talking about. Is it the one that the county did not approve?
 Or is it a different one? Staff. Andrew. My understanding, the applicant did request a variance to allow for street frontages to be smaller than the county
 would allow and that was denied in talking to mr cullors yesterday on the property they're still going to pursue what's called the conditional use permit which which would allow for lots less than one acre so i think that has not been formally voted on at the county so i'm not the county planner okay we did receive a letter from the county and we issued that out to the the council i think you can kind of see
 the status of their project at the county really has, at this point, it has been denied. I think their conditional use permit will be discussed at a later meeting.
 It's my understanding, and just to comment on the process, there was a variance requested for the 74 houses. There was a contingency of connection to the sewer and annexation. That failed, so the conditional use, there was no movement forward on that. The variance has to be approved first, then the conditional use. So as a resident, it is going to affect me, I'm just wondering what project,
 is being approved, the sewer connection to what project? A future project or this same project that's going to go back to county again? Andrew, do you have an answer to that? Yeah, no, I can't answer that. I'm not sure. It's getting into the county's process, which I'm not – we're not really – we don't have the authority over those types of approvals. Okay. Mayor, I think an answer to that specific question, though, is we don't have a project in front of us now. Okay.
 So this is a request for the city to provide sewer for a future project that I guess will be submitted because the project that was originally discussed is not, in fact, in front of the county. And as a resident, I'm saying that is going to be effective of the project. I would like to know what the project is to be able to comment on the specific project and not just say OK to something. And I don't even know what it is.
 Okay. Mr. Collars, you want to address that? I'm going to let you come back and address that. It is a very difficult process that we're going through because of the proximity that we are to the city limits. We are adjacent to the city limits. So, Mayor, if I could take just a minute and kind of walk you through the history of this project to this point. Okay. So, initially, we did seek annexation for this project. We met with Mr. Garner and...
 We're made aware of Plan 2030, said it would probably not be in the city's interest to annex at this point in time. However, if we wanted to seek conditional use through the county, we could do so. We began that process with the county. For the county, you have to provide an initial concept plan. It is nowhere near final design, but you have to present something to begin the design process and to apply for CUP.
 We initially designed a concept plan that showed 74 lots. That was outside of the county criteria of 10,000 square foot minimums and 75 linear foot of street frontage. So when we presented that...
 we were applying for a variance at the same time. The planning board meeting in which Miss Fields is referring to, the project was not denied. Conversation that night in the room veered off course from what we were actually meeting about, which was simply a variance for lot frontages and minimum or maximum I'm sorry, minimum lot sizes and square footage. We have since redesigned
 that exact project, same street layout, and we've redesigned for the lots to meet the county criteria of 10,000 square foot of metal with 75 linear foot frontages. So we are not going to have to apply for a variance.
 only a conditional use which does meet all of the county criteria. That meeting is farther down the road, so we were advised by city staff and county staff to go ahead and proceed with the procurement of water and sewer services. Okay. Thank you for that explanation.
 Hi, Council, Mayor. I'm Liz Lester. I live at 3052 North Hume Mount. I'm just north of the proposed subdivision, and I sent you an email, so I'm not going to revisit everything I said in the email. I think generally the neighborhood's concern is about density of houses. But my question tonight is I don't really understand this process that says
 The city apparently has a policy right now of not extending or annexing outside of the city limits. They also have a policy of not running city sewer outside the city limits. And yet we have an approved or a recommendation from the sewer committee to run the sewer outside of the city limits. For one thing, this seems sort of wrong way around to me.
 But I don't understand why is it that that is recommended by the sewer committee when that is not your stated policy? Well, I don't know if I have a great answer for you, but that was the decision of the Water and Sewer Committee to bring it to the council. This council has to answer that. I just wanted to clarify, and Mark mentioned this earlier, that we actually did not forward it with a recommendation. We actually forwarded it without a recommendation, and that was a typo in the package.
 Okay, we did not recommend for connection. That's my question for tonight. Thank you. Thank you All right, and you have the public comment on this miss colors not unless somebody brings back Anybody else? I'm gonna bring back to the council Marcus went through the water and sewer committee. Would you like to address? Yes, this went through the water and sewer committee. We'd have one project adjacent to this that does have a connection at that time
 The city council approved it. There was already infrastructure and a plan in Humont Village to build. They already had their infrastructure in the ground. We had a sewer main that went through the property after lengthy discussion, and it also was directly adjacent to Clapper Creek. And so that specific...
 item was connected into the city sewer. What's in front of us tonight is, and we're getting more and more of these requests, and they will probably go through water sewer, but tonight will probably help us set a standard on how to proceed, is do we want to look at the long-term management of wastewater on the edges of the city,
 or in the immediate stages, do we want to not accept these additional hookups? So it's a tough decision for the committee, and it will be for us here tonight, because we know that there's a need for affordable housing, and this allows affordable housing. But we also know that we do have a city...
 According to our city code, we are not going to allow hookups. Only city council can approve that. So that's why we brought it forward for discussion with the change in the environment of building. We're getting more and more interest on the edge of the county. It also was discussed that these county properties are not...
 paying sales tax into the city. I'm not sales tax, property tax. We have to look at the cost of operations and covering that with a rate structure that is not defined differently outside of the city. And so there's a lot of implications that we have to discuss as we move forward in considering these type of applications or requests.
 We do, as I've mentioned many times, have a very unique situation with topography around our city in that we have many streams that run right into the watershed and we have to look at a fair and balanced way of managing runoff that will impact the quality of water into the watersheds. So that's what we're faced with as we move forward and that's what was discussed with water and sewer.
 Okay, I have a question of procedure here kit on the resolution. I read it says a resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewage system beyond city limits to a proposed development near you might road and I mean somebody's gonna have to make a motion to approve correct in a second. I
 I mean, there wasn't, I thought there was, I'm sorry, but I thought there was a decision made by the Water and Sewer Committee. Well, regardless, if I had realized without the typo that it had just been forwarded, I still would have drafted the resolution that way because it's the affirmative duty to get five votes in order to pass a resolution to allow sewer service beyond the city limits. Okay. Yeah.
 That's why I was drafted that way. Okay. Mark? As chairman of the Water Sewer Committee and the request to bring this forward for discussion, then I will make the motion for approval. Okay. Is that what I need to do, kid? Yeah, that's probably proper and just see if the motion passes or not. All righty, there you go. Okay, Matthew? Do you want to ask for seconds? Well, I've got to get a second from Mark's motion. Okay.
 I'll second it, sure. Okay. Do you still have the floor? If you don't mind. I don't mind. Thank you. So the issue for me really comes down to the financial sustainability of the extension. And I'm not convinced at all that the development would pay its fair share for the cost of maintenance if we do the extension. Both in terms of the cost of maintenance.
 The way our rate structure is set up in terms of the tax revenue that might be generated from it. And this isn't anything complicated. I mean, if we're talking about one household every 100 feet or so on the street, that's half as many people as it would be if there were two households for every 100 feet.
 With that variance being denied by the county, I mean, I just don't see any way that the math works out for this proposal to pay its fair share of the maintenance that's going to be required 20 or 30 years or however long down the road. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First, I want to address the policy considerations. Policies are broad guidelines. They're not hard and fast rules, and we can make exceptions to those policies. Okay. They're to guide our thinking.
 but they're not hard and fast rules. So, you know, it's perfectly within the authority of our city council to agree to provide service here. Absolutely, I don't disagree. I've been practicing accounting for 37 years, and I'm pretty good with numbers, particularly adding to tracking. I haven't seen the numbers, so I cannot speak to that issue yet. I don't think any of us have seen the numbers, and it's hard to make a decision based on conjecture. What I do know is,
 If we don't allow them to hook up to our sanitary sewer, that waste is going to go directly into the ground and not be treated. And for those of you and for those of us who are concerned about the quality of life and the environmental impact of development, we would want that raw sewage to go into a sanitary sewer and be treated properly instead of just leached out into the ground.
 And we do have developments that are downhill from this that will impact them in probably negative ways. I'm not a chemist, and I'm sure our chemistry friends could explain that more precisely than I can. So I would support letting this development, whatever the final outcome of the development is, attach to our sanitary sewer system just as a practical matter of keeping the environment clean and sound for all of us. Thank you. Sarah. Sarah.
 Well, whenever I consider these decisions, I always look first to our guiding principles of our 2030 city plan. And the second guiding principle is that we shall discourage suburban sprawl. And to me, this is a textbook definition of suburban sprawl. It's outside our city limits. It's well outside the mayor's box around our city, which was supposed to be our urban growth boundary. It's not served by transit.
 and it would be very expensive to serve it with transit and other city services. And you know number four of our goals is that we're supposed to be growing a livable transportation network.
 The developer, they talk about wanting to provide affordable housing, but in northwest Arkansas, the cost of transportation exceeds the cost of housing for most households. And so by putting these homes out there and essentially people are driving until they qualify. It's like if you drive farther enough out, you can have a cheaper house. But then that's just shifting that household financial burden to transportation costs.
 And then I agree with Alderman Petty about the math in terms of the cost of maintaining the infrastructure and services to this far-reaching corner of, or I guess beyond the city. It is not going to make sense with the potential amount of property tax revenue that we would generate from this development. Okay.
 The other goal number five is about assembling an enduring green network. And we have a beautiful piece of agricultural property that really is exactly what our enduring green network should be protecting. So with that in mind, I will definitely be voting against this development. I think it's not the right move for the city of Fayetteville. Okay. Sarah. Sarah. Okay.
 You know, after going out and looking at this site, I put a lot of thought into this. And with affordable housing, since I'm a real estate agent, I work with this every day. And I can't tell you how many times I've told someone when we're looking at a certain price range, well, you're going to have to go outside of Fayetteville. You're going to have to go further out if you want to find that price range. So affordable housing is always a challenge.
 I have great concerns about the cost of this in terms of increasing sprawl and the connection streets that are around this are not really very wide and that sort of thing. The cost of the city to maintain this, if it is connected onto the sewer, that's a big concern to me. And also I put a lot of weight into the fact that the county denied the lot sizes, so I'll be voting against this tonight.
 Okay. Anybody else? Okay. We have a motion and a second. There's no other comments. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Gray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Eddy? No. Hunt? No. Okay. Thank you all very much. This brings us to unfinished business.
 I will not finish the business. In order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition orders in N17-57. Sorry.
 Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-733 for approximately 1.79 acres located at the southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive from RO residential office and RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Adela? I move we go to the second reading, please.
 Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second. Joe, second. Sondra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Nance? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in Rezoning Petition RZN 17-5733 for approximately 1.79 acres located at the southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive.
 from RO Residential Office and RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay. Andrew. Mayor, I don't have any additional information to present. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them. What questions do we have at the council on this? That's all right. John. Mr. Mayor, I voted to go ahead and go to the second reading, but I'm against changing the...
 Generally, I'm very pro-growth and very pro-development. But remember, what trumps that is I want variety in the marketplace. I want people who have nice single-family neighborhoods without commercial development in the neighborhood to remain single-family, those people who want it in spite of the personal preferences of the members of this most august council.
 We need variety in the marketplace. We need single family, quiet, two acre lots if that's what they want. We also need a walkable community. We also need urban development. So those people who prefer to walk to the theater, walk to the grocery store, walk to Walmart, walk to the mall, they have that option available also. It is the height of arrogance for us to presume that we know what the market will demand.
 We need to provide variety, and this is a good instance where we have variety in the marketplace, we have a quiet neighborhood, and those neighbors are most interested in maintaining that. Ordinarily, I'd be voting for development. Here, I'm voting against it because I want that variety in the marketplace. Okay. Justin.
 uh andrew just for the record i think we talked about this a couple of weeks ago but will you briefly go through what is possible on that land as it is zoned today if we don't change it what are the possibilities there sure so the property is currently zoned ro residential office that is what you typically see in like an office park type setting where it does allow for a 60 foot tall office building
 The pit the pattern of development is typically more suburban as opposed to an urban Development pattern where you have buildings set well back off of the street usually with parking lots in front The RO zoning has a 50-foot front building setback if you have parking in front if there's not parking in front the building could Go all the way up to 15 feet to the street So those uses
 Generally, like I said, are offices that would allow for restaurants in a small, I think up to 2,000 square foot in each individual building. So if you were to max out the existing property with restaurants under the existing zoning, you could build several restaurants, but neither one of them could be in a building more than 2,000 square feet. There's a couple of different scenarios as well.
 But I think the basic requirement as well, when you have, you know, like a non-residential use next to residential under any zoning, the city's codes require buffering and landscaping between, you know, this property here on the west and the residential neighborhood to the east. So you would likely see, you know, a buffer strip of, you know, 12 to 15 feet in between a parking lot and that, you know, seven-foot brick wall. So those are kind of some of the general guidelines to think about. So of the...
 If I may continue. Sure. If, so there's a large brick wall that backs up into those houses, the one, two, three, four, let's say five houses. There you go.
 well that's pretty fancy um that is so um there's that brush pile i meant to talk to you about that brush um so the um the brick wall there you're meant what you said just a minute ago if i heard you right was a building that could be set back there but there would be a a buffer zone between the brick wall and any building and or parking lot that is there under the current zoning
 That's correct. And it could go up, but the building itself could not go straight up 60 feet because of the setback rules, correct? Correct. So it would be stair-stepped by however many feet it's going up accordingly. Mm-hmm. But likely would not be close to the street, or we couldn't force that. It would be probably back with a parking lot out front, similar to a lot of the other developments along the area. Okay.
 Another question I have that I was asked if someone wanted to go in and build multiple 2,000 square foot buildings to house whatever restaurants or whatever could they be connected a Roofline say a walkway a covered walkway between each building there is that cannot considered separate buildings. I
 No, they could not do that. That would be considered, if they're connected through a roof line, we would say that's all one building. Even if there was like a breezeway in between. That was the question. Yeah, then that would not be allowed under the existing zoning. So it would have to be, if it was multiple items to make it doable, let's say, by someone who wanted to purchase it, it would literally have to be separate buildings together.
 put in there at whatever the Planning Commission agreed to from a look of the plat. That's correct. Thank you for clarifying that. Okay, what other questions do we have in the Council? Mr. Mayor, I have a little follow-up on that. Sure. There are two lots, I understand, Andrew, on this, so that if it was separate ownership, would they have to do lot splits to have more than two businesses established?
 No, they wouldn't. They could have more than one building on the same lot. With two different owners of the buildings? Yes, that would be handled usually like through a horizontal property regime would be possible. That's not too uncommon in commercial settings. Sometimes you have doctors that have different buildings on one parcel and different practices may own a different building. So a similar scenario could occur. Now, when this property was rezoned and...
 uh... and planted back in either nineteen ninety nine or somewhat later than that and when these individuals uh... purchased and built their houses residential office did not allow any commercial at that point you're not right andrew that's correct not as a permitted use i think it was as a conditional use only at that point only conditional use that could be commercial was uh... restaurant and until that was true until april of two thousand
 when the City Council changed the zoning for residential office and then allowed limited business, which is what you're talking about here, allowing businesses to go in, which did now, as you see, not make this such a great buffer as it had been prior to the change in the zoning code that would allow limited businesses these 2,000-square-foot restaurants.
 But that was not done until 2010 after a very large percentage of this neighborhood probably already built their houses in reliance upon the original RO zoning that did not allow this commercial use. So that concerns me a little bit. I just thought you should know the history of that and what has happened. Justin. Okay. I don't have any other questions for now. Thank you. John. Sorry.
 Meeting with the residents yesterday, it was apparent to me that they were under the impression, right, wrong, or indifferent. They're believing that when they bought their property, when they bought into the situation, that property's going to remain RO. And now you might argue about what that definition is, and as Kit has explained to us, that definition changed since the time those houses were built. So it's kind of like we're changing the deal in the middle of the game. And none of us like to...
 play that way when we're playing monopoly. You don't change the rules in the middle of the game, you know, particularly when you see an advantage for yourself. So I would encourage us to not change those rules here. Okay, anybody else? Oh, Matt. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I don't have much of a comment to make before we hear from the public, but I did want to ask Andrew to explain
 how any of our lighting ordinances might address some of the concerns we've heard from neighbors about lighting in a parking lot coming into the backyard the city does have an exterior lighting ordinance so and it's basically a dark sky ordinance for lack of a better term it's required to have lights fully shielded and light should be only shining straight down so like
 The older style of lights you might have seen in a gas station where they shine spotlights outward are not allowed any longer. And further, the code even states that you cannot have light trespass onto another property. So when we review building permits, we look at the actual catalog cut sheet of the light fixtures and make sure they're shielded and shining downwards and not shining onto the neighboring properties. Thanks. Thank you. Justin. And again, anything like what?
 Matthew was just talking about whether it's light pollution, sound pollution, any of those sort of things, that would be revisited no matter what development goes in, no matter what we do on the rezoning at the Planning Commission level later. In other words, light straight down. You mentioned yesterday noise ordinance is different from the entertainment district to a neighborhood zoning district. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yeah, in the actual neighborhood services zoning that's proposed, we actually wrote into that zoning code that for purposes of enforcing the NORS ordinance, it's a residential district to try to make sure that if it comes up into a complaint type of situation, um,
 It's a lower volume, lower decibels than you would see in an entertainment district. Okay. That would be addressed at planning for any development that goes into it. Yeah. I mean, the noise ordinance is really addressed by the police department on a complaint basis so that it's really not super relevant at this point. I really meant more the light. Yeah. The lighting of how it's directed and the dark sky ordinance. Right. That would be fully reviewed at development. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Don. Okay.
 Yes, ma'am. I think I was sitting here listening to this conversation because I think I'm the only one, other than maybe Kit, that actually voted on this zoning. I was on the planning commission, and it was 99. Oh, 99. And our discussion was really about residential office. At the time, before our current codes, and I'll remind you, this is 18 years prior.
 We had did transitional planning of zoning. I learned the other day they call it Euclidean zoning or something of that nature. But anyway, things transition single family to multifamily to residential office to commercial. And we had a lot of discussion at the planning commission about this being an office
 zoning which did not have the uses by right but by conditional use at the time. And one of the concerns were all of these issues that you're talking about. So at the Planning Commission, the discussion really was about the kinds of uses that you see just north of this.
 in those smaller office environments around it was the discussion of the Planning Commission. And I just want to say to you that while we talk about lighting pollution and those kinds of items, it addresses fixture lighting, like lighting in a parking lot and things of that nature, but when you get a...
 60-foot building or a 45-foot building that is lit up at night and if you want an example of that you can go to the new urgent care center on Appleby that backs up to North Hills area where we see significant light that goes into properties from the building itself not the fixtures of the parking lot those things are all down lit so there is an impact that
 comes from the use of that building based on the hours of operation and i just want to say to you because those are the kinds of things we heard back in 90 about concerns from people who were buying this as their residential homes to sit in their backyards and not feel like that they were in the middle of a lighted park okay well let's take some public comments shall we now
 Hang on, everybody. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Give us your name and address. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage a council member or anybody in the public. Let's be courteous. Now, a council member can bring you back, or I can bring you back for more comment if I want to ask questions, or if they do. But that's the only way you get to come back and speak again. So, stay on topic. We're talking about the rezoning like this.
 Anyway, we're talking about the rezoning tonight, so stay on that topic, okay?
 All right. Who would like to be first? Mayor, before they start, could I admit that I was a little remiss at the last meeting to allow people to talk about pizza places or other specific developments. In a rezoning, you can only talk about the potential uses on this property, which could be restaurants, it could be commercial buildings, it could be residences, and it can also be...
 uh office buildings but don't talk about particular uh projects that maybe have been discussed before we're really not supposed to be talking about that excuse me but the uses that are allowed in this zoning district okay everybody all right who'd like to be first
 Mr. Mayor, City Council, good evening. My name is Jerry Buskin. I've been a Stonewood resident for over 12 years and live at 3057 Waterstone Drive. My backyard backs up to the two lots seeking the zoning change. I met most of you yesterday. I want to thank each of you for visiting the property and taking time to speak with several of the residents who will be directly impacted by the proposed change. I'm speaking tonight on behalf of the many Stonewood homeowners who do not support the proposal to change the zoning of lots one and two.
 With that said, if I could ask all the Stonewood residents I'm representing to please stand up. All of you who are opposed to the zoning change, please be seated. So you can see it's quite overwhelming. All of you on the City Council received this letter dated May 3rd from City Attorney Kit Williams, written after the last City Council meeting explaining why this rezoning proposal was just, well, plain wrong. As he so clearly explains, it isn't just wrong, it also goes against several court cases in Arkansas.
 One of the reasons the rezoning is wrong is the issue of compatibility, which he has stated throughout the years as the reason for having zoning in the first place. He cites a number of court cases which support the fact that compatibility or lack of compatibility is best measured by the reasonable concerns and opinions of neighbors. You've all seen the spreadsheet put together by Bob Anderson, our POA treasurer, showing the results of voting on this issue by the property owners in Stonewood.
 89 out of 105 homeowners, which is a response rate of 84%, responded to the poll. And 86 of them, or nearly 97%, said they were against the rezoning. When this many people are against something, I think that constitutes reasonable concerns and is a very clear statement of their opinions. This proposal raises a number of questions. Is the opposition from the Stonewood homeowners a case of not in my backyard? Well, not at all. Nobody complained when Mike Parker built his new office building a couple of years ago.
 This is what every homeowner understood could be built on the RO lots located between the residential houses and Highway 265 when their houses were purchased. The opposition is based on the simple fact that the proposed large scale retail development just doesn't belong on those two lots. It is not compatible. Kit Williams states, and I quote, probably the most important factor in the underlying reason to have zoning in the first place is to promote compatibility among neighboring parcels.
 Pushing a form-based mixed use zone district into a traditional RSF4 zone district would be a classic example of spot zoning. Which has been criticized by the Arkansas Supreme Court and property law authorities as cited in a couple cases. Thomas Petroleum versus West Helena. Riddell versus City of Brinkley. Who are the target customers of this proposed restaurant?
 Given the likely size of the restaurant, it can't be profitable relying on the residents of the neighborhood. The target customers are the people traveling on Crossover Road. It's being built for visitors to the neighborhood, not the homeowners, who will have to bear the brunt of negative impacts, traffic, noise, lights, and other nuisances. Does it turn Stonewood into a walkable urban neighborhood? No. You can't create a walkable neighborhood when the only...
 Open for commercial development is on the outer edge of the neighborhood and there's nothing the least bit urban about this part of the city That's why so many of us chose to live there Is it the intent of this rezoning to open up the remaining undeveloped commercial lots to this type of activity? City Council would have a difficult time denying another rezoning request if this one is approved Does anyone want to see this part of crossover which is which includes the Botanical Garden? Fayetteville's crown jewel turned into another College Avenue. I
 Who does the rezoning benefit? It certainly benefits the developers. Whatever benefits Stonewood's homeowners would get, we have very clearly shown that we neither need nor want. It seems to us that City Council has a very simple choice to make. Are you going to side with the monetary desires of a few developers to the detriment of the many homeowners? Are you going to support the greater good by preserving the natural beauty of the Stonewood neighborhood and surrounding area for the request of the citizens you represent?
 Lastly, I want to speak briefly to my own thoughts and opinions. I recognize that several of the council members have a vision for what they think the future city of Fayetteville should look like. While I respect your vision of urban-style neighborhoods, I disagree that one size fits all. My wife and I intentionally chose to live away from an urban-style neighborhood.
 We as many others prefer a quiet, low traffic neighborhood that promotes a family environment and family values. A medium intensity urban style environment does not promote the style of living and values that we are looking for. Diversity is a good thing. This city has successfully fought for the rights of diversity for its citizens in many ways over the years. We all desire to have the freedom of choice. I'm asking you to preserve the diversity of neighborhoods and not create a one size fits all urban Fayetteville.
 I leave you with a quote that I greatly respect from one of the council members. I quote, I believe a representative approach, i.e., our citizens can speak best to the issues that impact them most, and our role is to listen and represent, is the key to responsive government. End of quote.
 I believe the citizens of Stonewood have clearly spoken. Please be a responsive city council by respecting the perspective of the Stonewood residents and deliver a decision that is representative and compatible with the opinions of the residents. Thank you for your time. Thank you. All right, who would like to be next? Mr. Mayor, council members, thank you. My name is Steve Vowell. I live at 4868 Trails End Lane in Stonewood subdivision.
 As a preliminary matter, I have some slides I'd like to show with the mayor and council's permission. I think that takes a vote of the council, kid. Is that true? A majority vote, yes. Majority vote. I will entertain a motion to allow the presentation. John? So moved, Ms. Mayor. Adela? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to allow the presentation. Yes. How long is it? Well, there are ten slides, but since the council has visited the site, I can do away with it.
 About four or five of those. And it's new information? I'm sorry? It's new information relative to what we've heard? No, sir. It is. They consist of the same slides I showed the council last time, but there were two members of the council who weren't present. Okay. I believe in the rules kit of orders, it's a five-minute presentation. Yes, it is limited to five minutes, and we do need a vote on the motion. Indeed. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. I'd like to kind of preface my remarks by a little anecdote. I moved, or my wife and I moved into Stonewood seven or eight years ago. I mean, when we first moved in, of course, we live sort of in the northeast quadrant
 When we first moved in, we actually had a Springdale address and a bunch of
 us and the neighbors complained to the Postal Department because we are Fayettevilleites. We're not Springdale residents. And so we went to the Postal Department, and the Springdale Post Office said, That's fine. You can call yourselves Fayetteville and put Fayetteville on your addresses, but your mail is still going to be coming through our post office, and your zip code is still going to be 72764.
 I relate that anecdote to sort of echo what Councilman Latour said. We are a quiet, very peaceful, very beautiful neighborhood that lies on the very outskirts of the city. In fact, the city limit sign, if that is actually where the line is, is at the very edge of our subdivision. The...
 The planning department, I believe, supported the proposed rezoning, as did the commission. And I think they were motivated, at least to some extent, by a desire to promote this urban form development and to promote walkable neighborhoods. And I won't repeat what Jerry said, but this does not promote a walkable neighborhood.
 WHEN THIS ZONING CLASSIFICATION, WHICH IS NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES GENERAL, WAS CREATED, A MEMO FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION EMPHASIZES THAT THIS IS MAINLY INTENDED FOR MEDIUM DENSITY
 or medium intensity residential development. That's what NSG was primarily designed for. We are not a medium density urban residential development. We are clearly a residential neighborhood, not an urban neighborhood. And I think I could say without equivocation that everybody bought their properties out
 Because of the privacy, the quiet neighborhood, the beauty of it, if we had wanted to live in an urban environment to where we had walkable services and didn't have to leave our neighborhood to get what we need, then we would have lived somewhere else.
 And so that memo from the Planning Commission points that out, that NSG is really not intended for this type of area. And the next slide is basically the same thing as was pointed out in a later memo. I would also kind of point out what Mr. Garner and Councilman Maher spoke upon briefly, and that is that
 Normally, there is a buffer area between commercial services and residential neighborhoods. If we could see the next slide. At the time that the council was considering amending the zoning ordinances to create this NSG zoning classification, this is one of the transects that was presented. And as you can see,
 There is a buffer area between neighborhood services general and community services, so the bottom is RSF for that's what we are normally neighborhood services limited would be a buffer between RS4 and NSG the
 This also emphasized the fact that both commercial services and NSG are high-intensity, high-vehicle-intensity zoning classifications consistent with urban commercial development, whereas Neighborhood Services Limited is not high-intensity traffic. Now, on this transect, RO is not shown, but RO would be between –
 I BELIEVE WOULD COME BETWEEN NS, PROBABLY NSL AND NSG IF IT WAS SHOWN ON THIS TRANSACT. IF WE COULD SEE THE NEXT ONE. AND THIS IS ANOTHER SLIDE THAT WAS PRESENTED TO THE COUNCIL WHEN THIS ZONING CLASSIFICATION WAS CREATED AND YOU CAN SEE THE DIFFERENCES IN THE USES, I MEAN, THIS IS NOT A COMPREHENSIVE
 recitation of what the uses are, but beginning at the bottom, community services, which we're obviously not dealing with. Then the next most intense development category is NSG, neighborhood services general, which is what is being requested in this case, which as was mentioned earlier by Mr. Garner, a restaurant or...
 Whatever type of commercial endeavor goes in there could be up to 8,000 square feet and would contain Would obviously have to contain many more parking spaces than would be applicable to The present zoning the RO And as you can see going on up the next lease leased less
 INTENSE DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE THE NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES LIMITED AND THEN RO WOULD COME BETWEEN NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES LIMITED AND RSF4. SO RSF4 IS INTENDED TO BE A PRIVATE, NONCOMMERCIAL AREA. OUR BUFFER ALONG THE HIGHWAY IS IN FACT RO AND IT PERMITS COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. BUT THE COUNCIL HAS BEEN OUT THERE AND YOU'VE SEEN THE TWO BUILDINGS THAT ARE PRESENT.
 They fit in perfectly with the neighborhood. They are not obstructive. They don't, you don't even notice them, at least I don't, when I pull into the neighborhood. And I told the council last time that I'm not even sure what, or I wasn't at that point in time, what businesses were conducted in there. They're so quiet. I later found out what they are. But in any event, they are compatible with our neighborhood. A...
 large 8,000 square foot restaurant or some other type of commercial or business entity catering to the public with with longer business hours would certainly be disruptive to our neighborhood If we could go to the next slide the current zoning actually is what's shown here so Lots one and two
 LIE SIDE BY SIDE AND THE DIVISION LINE BETWEEN THE TWO IS THAT VERTICAL LINE. AND SO BOTH LOTS 1 AND 2 ARE PRESENTLY ZONED RO. AND THEN THE REMAINDER, THIS LITTLE TRIANGLE DOWN HERE IS ZONED RSF 4 ALONG WITH THE REST OF THE SUBDIVISION. AND THEN, OF COURSE, UP ON THIS SIDE OF HEARTHSTONE IS WHERE THE TWO CURRENT RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
 And so the property owners of these lots here, lot 80 and lot 119, actually own not only, and their lots are on this side of the wall, but they also own the property behind the wall, which is currently zoned NSF-4, and hopefully it will stay zoned that way. Hopefully they'll never sell those lots to someone else because that will give us a buffer. There are more commercial lots up on the other side of,
 graced on the upper entrance next slide shows this would be the Zoning if the council approves the rezoning correct request all that would be changed to neighborhood services general The remaining slides if you could just flip through them quickly It shows the council's been out there and and so you know what what the area looks like I would I know the council has read the memo that I
 that City Attorney Williams wrote May 2nd. It's very comprehensive, very well written, and I would urge you to give that your utmost consideration because it sets out all of the issues better than I can reiterate them here verbally standing in front of you. I would like to leave you with one thought, and that is,
 The property owners there have the ability to do commercial development. They would simply be limited to a 2,000 square feet building, which is much preferable. And I know there's been a lot of talk about, well, is this actually, in fact, a down zoning? It is not a down zoning, as you can see by those transects.
 because this classification, NSG, would allow much more intense development, much more traffic, much larger buildings than the RO would allow. So as I said, the current owners have the ability to develop this property commercially under an RO zoning. We acknowledge that. And we have two commercial buildings there which,
 which no one has ever complained about. And I would point out to the council, the case law and the courts have said many times that rezoning is not justified solely on the ground that it's necessary to allow the owner of the property to put it to its most lucrative or most profitable use.
 That should not be a consideration. There are other uses, even commercial uses, to which this property can be put. And it's not a consideration that it might be put to a more profitable use if a rezoning were allowed. And so we urge you to deny the rezoning request. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who would like to be next? Thank you.
 Yes, Matthew. I have a question for staff, a clarification. I'm a little bit confused by this 2,000 square foot versus 8,000 square foot limitation. My read of the use unit 12B, and I wonder if this is the same for limited business, is that residential uses are excluded from that calculation. So is it the case that in residential office that, for example, a duplex with a restaurant below it could be built by right?
 That's correct. I think you're correct that the residential uses would be excluded. And is it also the case that in RO the density limitation is 24 units per acre? Correct. And in Neighborhood Services General it's 18 per acre? Yes. Okay, thank you. Just come on up.
 Hi, Mayor. I'm Mike Morissette. I live at 1606 North Jordan here in Fayetteville. Not immediately adjacent to the property, but I feel close enough to where it could positively affect me, and I'm here to just speak on that perspective of...
 I believe it would help the city as a whole, this project, because, you know, you look at what's there. There's the botanical gardens. There's, you know, the park, Lake Fayette Park. I'm up there frequently almost every weekend doing some sort of activity. We benefit from some sort of service there. You know, if it's, you know, I know we can't talk about the business name, but whatever sort of service, it's neighborhood services. Yeah.
 And I do it, you know, that's a perspective that seems to get looked over a lot as the rest of the city, you know, that would positively benefit from something like this. And I have the additional concern, you know, I practice GIS, geography as a profession. I kind of know, you know, a little bit about how businesses relate to each other. You know, this is on the edge of town. There's a demand for this there.
 We deny it. It could go to Springdale. You know, we lose out on all those economic benefits. So I'd just like to bring that point up that probably might not get talked about too much. So thank you. Peter Tonneson. I live on Hearthstone Drive. A couple of preliminaries now. One is that my understanding is that an RO...
 There's a 12a limited business, and there are three categories of uses that are allowed with a 1,500-square-foot limit, a 2,000-square-foot limit, which would apply to restaurants, and then a 3,000-square-foot limit. And there is a 3,000-square-foot limit on building size under that 12a limited business use. So a restaurant, as a matter of being permitted...
 would have to limit itself to 2,000 square feet and be co-located in a 3,000-square-foot building. It could be with a convenience store or newspaper stand. I don't know. But as I understand it, if you go to conditional uses, they could build a restaurant actually up to 25,000 square feet, but they would have to meet the compatibility standards. You could have a single building, a single restaurant, even bigger than 2,000 square feet,
 under RO if they, and I'm going to go through the standards later. So I don't think it's fair to say that there could only be like three 2,000 foot square foot little buildings. The other thing I have to do is what I do best to start out with an apology. My topics last week were all related to cars, off street parking, traffic, and the parkway nature of crossover road.
 And I prepared these restaurant comps because we had been told that what they wanted was an 8,000 square foot restaurant. So I went out and I found eight examples of restaurants that were approximately 8,000 square feet. And I prepared an exhibit and I offered it to the council in good faith. And the days and it showed.
 We would expect, theoretically, I think 123 parking spaces for a 6,400-square-foot restaurant. It's all abstract, but I needed to have some idea of scope with which to make a reasoned argument. Well, I pointed out to the others, and I kept saying to myself, if you looked at it, there was a 1% correlation difference between the square footage of the building and...
 the number of parking spaces, and that just seemed odd. It seemed too good to be true. And I thought about it, and I said, there's some other force than human nature driving these statistics. And finally, I realized that what had driven it was those buildings were all built two years ago under an ordinance which required X number of parking spaces minimum per X hundred square feet of building. And so it was ordinance-driven.
 And I happened to be here in October of 2015 when you all did away with that ordinance and eliminated the requirement for minimum parking for any commercial use and actually set a maximum parking limit. And I remember Mr. Petty pointed out there were like three parking spaces for every car and then there was concern over impervious paved areas that just generated runoff and they were never occupied at the mall, they were never occupied at Target. I mentioned...
 a shopping center. Mr. Kenyon knew it was Fiesta Square. It used to be a drive-in movie, I think. And I remember at the time, Mr. Williams cautioned that maybe you shouldn't do away with it entirely because businessmen will have a natural inclination to want to push off the costs of
 parking onto the neighborhood and that could generate complaints and it might go full circle to where years from now the city might have to create parking a taxpayer expense. But in October of 2015 you changed that ordinance and so in fairness to the truth all I want to point out is that section 172.05 has a table three and it lists 60 uses in seven categories.
 And of those 60 uses, the second most intensive parking use is restaurants. So that an 8,000 square foot restaurant would be capped at 80 parking spaces, which is still a lot. The only use more parking intensive than that is bars, dance halls, and taverns. And I'm not going to go... There are all kinds of anomalies in the table, in my opinion. But what you come out with is that...
 They still want more than 110 parking spaces on those two lots. That's a fact that they're asking for. And that's a lot of parking. And this is not day parking where you drive to the metro and you park your car and it just sits there all day long. This is coming and going parking for over 100 parking spaces. And there's no other. I went through this last week, so I'm not going to belabor it. If Mr. Petty, Ms. Marsh can look at the if they're interested, they could see what we argued then.
 But there's no comparable level of parking anywhere. In fact, if you look at the two lots across the street, that lot at the Botanical Garden that the city bought for $750,000. And then the other lot, which I imagine the city bought for the park that's south of it. Those two lots add up to 101 parking spaces, which is even less than what they're seeking on lots one and two. So it's a totally anomalous use, even under the new ordinance.
 All right, I'm going to try to go through this quickly. Spot zoning, we talked about last time, it's the application of zoning to a specific parcel or parcels of land within a larger zoned area. When the zoning is at odds with the city's master plan, which this would be, and at odds with current zoning restrictions, which this would be. I've sent some of these in.
 The Riddell case spot zoning by definition is invalid because it amounts to an arbitrary, capricious, and unreasonable treatment of a limited area within a particular district. As such, it departs from the comprehensive treatment where privilege is not in harmony with other use classifications in the area and without any apparent circumstances which call for different treatment.
 City of Little Rock in 1994, spot zoning may be ruled invalid as an arbitrary, capricious, and unreasonable treatment of a limited parcel of land by a local zoning ordinance. City of Little Rock said zoning regulates the land use in whole districts. Spot zoning makes unjustified exceptions for a parcel within a district. City of Lowell versus MN Mobile Home Park, Arkansas Supreme Court, 1996.
 Zoning is by districts and not by individual parcels of land. So I've got a chart. If anyone wants it, you can have it. But basically, lots one and two total 1.79 acres. They constitute 1% of the Stonewood-Copper Creek Embry Acres community. They constitute one-fifth of 1% of the park and that community. So we are talking about spot zoning.
 I could go through all the different iterations, but basically if you took all 14 of those lots, which are owned in a related ownership pattern, you would have 6.5 acres that constitute less than 4% of the community and less than 1% of that greater residential RA and RSF4 area. So this has definitely met the first test for spot zoning. I'm sure the council's familiar with
 The factors that they looked at, traffic, criminal activity, litter, sale of alcoholic beverages. Thomas Petroleum case has already been mentioned, so it's in the record. Tanner versus City of Green Forest. Once a planning commission has exercised its authority in drafting regulations, and Mr. Val talked about this a little bit, it is bound by those regulations and shall administer them guided by standards that can be uniformly applied.
 As a result, we held that a planning commission may not disregard the regulations set forth in a subdivision ordinance and substitute its own discretion in lieu of fixed standards applying to all cases similarly situated. This is a statutory design according to City of Lowell versus MN Mobile Home Park. The fundamental concept of zoning under the statute is sound city planning. The statute itself makes statutory design even clearer
 The statute actually only allows three classes of zoning. That's an old statute from 1924, but I think we're way beyond. I think we've gotten way beyond in terms of fine-tuning and micromanaging uses within the city. Now, here's interesting from Tanner v. City of Green Forest, a 1990 case.
 Rezoning is not justified solely on the ground that is necessary to put a particular track to its most remunerative use. The hearing was well attended by residents of the area and some of the residents objected. There were concerns over increased traffic. Tanner's land was wholly within an area zoned residential, exactly as here. Tanner was personally aware of the current zoning classification of the property at the time of its purchase and was aware of the restrictions of use.
 The purchasers of this property, this property was zoned RO. It was planted RO in 2001. It was zoned RO in July of 2003. The first lot was lot 7, bought in 2007. Then lots 1 through 6 were bought in 2008. And lots 10 through 14 were bought a year ago, March 1 of 2016. All of these lots were purchased with knowledge that RO had been the status of those lots for a long time.
 They were purchased lots one and two, I'll stick to them. Were purchased by two men who were involved in seven companies that deal in real estate. There are at least 162 land transactions, not transactions, but records recorded in the land records of the circuit court in the county. And they are experienced real estate dealers. Mike Parker is on lots five and six, has 30 employees.
 So these are not some poor farmer who got overtaken by events. They knew what they were buying, and they knew what they were getting when they bought it. All right, I covered that. All right, so let's talk about what would make this arbitrary and capricious if the city were to do it. After the city plan 20, well, let's start at the beginning. This all goes to notice, right?
 So it was zoned RO in July 2003. The homeowners all purchased the lots while their lots in the community, the 360 lots, when lots 1 to 14 were zoned RO. The developers' applicants purchased in 2007, 2008, 2016, where the lots were all zoned RO. Lots 1 to 14 were zoned RO, according to City Plan 2030, issued again in 2011.
 After city plan 2030 was issued in July 2011, Phil Cameron and Max Parker extended their mortgage on lot two for three years until 2014 knowing it was still zoned RO. Then they sold a portion of lot one to the State Highway Commission for $49,000. In 2014, knowing that they were still zoned RO, they extended their mortgage on lot two again for four more years until May of 2018.
 Throughout all those years, while homeowners were actively buying and building, the principals, I'll just call them, did not seek to rezone lot one or two, for which they have not paid. Actually, it's actually been a series of options because they haven't actually paid the mortgage on lot two. So by paying interest and then getting three- and four-year extensions, they're carrying the property as an investment, I guess. All right, now initially, this is like Donald Trump and his immigration policy.
 The courts are saying, well, Donald Trump said he wanted to exclude Muslims and he's bound by his statements. We know in terms of intent that initially they tried to get this zone CS. The intent of that being, it says the intent of this zoning district is to provide standards that enable development to be approved administratively. And that's pretty normal. I mean, people want to have unfettered control over their investments in their property, but that was their intent.
 Some of these points have already been held, so I'm going to go through them real fast. NSG, by its terms, is an urban residential zoning district, which opens the door to city-like form-based structures, whereas NSG is for medium intensity, not low intensity like NSL would be. NSG is supposed to serve the needs, quote-unquote, of the neighborhood and be walkable.
 Whereas the applicants want more than 110 parking spaces for this supposedly walkable use. I mean, think about the incongruity there. If some independent third party has to look at this and think about, wait, that's kind of crazy. You say it's supposed to be walkable, but you can't do with less than 110 parking spaces. And then as Mr. Val pointed out, the city's own transect drawings show that NSL is the
 Well, it's preferred over NSG as a buffer. They didn't mention RO. NSG automatically permits uses up to 8,000 square feet without further supervision, whereas RO allows uses only 2,000 square feet for restaurants or 3,000 square feet otherwise. Here's what I call one of the real issues lurking in this matter.
 is they don't want to have to deal with the compatibility tests. There are some very stringent compatibility tests under RO if you go beyond the 2,000 or 3,000-foot limit. And those are for compatibility with the neighborhood. I'm not going to belabor them. I'll just read you the sections. We blew through that pretty quickly. The sections are 163.02. Requirements shall apply to all conditional uses,
 the planning commission shall deny a conditional use when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this chapter. They have to submit an application. They have to pay a fee and the planning commission for a conditional use, say an 8,000 foot or an 18,000 foot restaurant. You could put in a 25,000 square foot clinic and have no more parking under the ordinance than for an 8,000 square foot restaurant. And it would be kind of,
 9 to 5-ish, 8 to 6-ish if you had a clinic there, and it could be a low, flat clinic with doctors. Written findings required. The Planning Commission shall make the following written findings. The granting of the conditional use will not adversely affect the public interest. They'll certify compliance with the rules. I'm blowing through this quickly.
 Off-street parking, they'd have to consider ingress, egress, economic effects, noise effects, glare effects, odor effects on adjoining properties and properties generally in the district. Refuse and service areas, utilities, screening, buffering, signs, signage, and general compatibility. That goes beyond that, too, though, in RO. And this is, I think, why they don't want to have to do it. If you did a business under 12B...
 you'd have to meet compatibility standards too. And they're actually even more explicit. But what it boils down to, and that would apply, I say, under the a fortiori rule, that if you have to meet these standards for a 2,000-square-foot restaurant as a permitted use, and you want to now build a restaurant four or ten times that size as a conditional use, if you have to meet these conditions for the smaller restaurant, a fortiori, you'd have to meet these conditions for a larger restaurant.
 But what it boils down to is building materials, roof pitch, style. They'd have to offer a site plan, location of parking, building footprint. So if they can get out from under our road, these standards are Code Section 16421, standards to ensure compatibility. They're mandatory. They shall not adversely affect local traffic conditions on the adjoining streets, minimal visual impact, and so forth.
 So what's really driving this, I believe, is the only fair inference to draw from the facts, is that they'd rather be freed of the conditions of RO, which they knew when they bought the property, and not have to be compatible with a residential neighborhood. Which again, the buildings on 5 and 6 and the building on 7 that was already there, they are compatible. All right, final thing. There are real issues here. I pride myself on trying to be honest. Sometimes I'm
 petty and annoying. In fact, I'm probably annoying to a lot of people a lot of the time. There is a range war going on here between those of us who grew up in cities and want to live in an area where I can just sit in my backyard and pluck the onion grass, which hasn't arrived yet. I've talked about this before. And then there are people who enjoy the urban experience. I grew up in the urban experience till I was 18 in New York City. I said this last week, this I guess mostly for...
 Ms. Marsh and Mr. Petty. It is a fine experience. In our twenties, my first wife and I enjoyed Washington, D.C. immensely, but we don't want it now. And there is this range war going on between form-based zoning and those of us who are happy with Euclid, who was an Egyptian. I don't know if the Supreme Court picked that case because they have a sense of humor and they knew he was the father of geometry or because
 I don't know why they call it Euclidean zoning. It's geometric zoning, and there are many of us who are happy with it. And I would just ask that the city council respect our right to have the deal that we bought into and which we respected for 15 years. I told the city council last week it was a great plan. Somebody planned this around 2000, and then the city zoned it.
 And between 2003 and 2015, you sold 360 homes like that. They built and sold, and some have resold. And you had a great concept, and everybody played by those rules until all 360 homes were done. And now, after they've owned those lots since 2008, for nine years they've owned those lots and never sought a rezoning, now they suddenly want to rezone those lots.
 So just leave them RO. They can get a 25,000-square-foot building if they can show compatibility. And leave everybody's feathers unruffled from anywhere that they deserve to be. I mean, just leave us where we are. It was a great plan. We love you for it. But we're asking you not to upset it. Because remember, law in and of itself is not always an end result. There have been a lot of unjust laws passed.
 The Nazis had unjust laws. We had them in the Deep South here. It's law and order. People want a sense of order and stability in their lives, something they can count on. It's tremendously reassuring to have something you can count on. And we've all counted on this. It was your idea, and we're asking you to stick with it. Okay. Thank you, Peter. Who would like to be next? Moving right along. Good evening. Mark Scalise, 3268 Hearthstone Drive.
 resident for 14 years. I'd like to start by thanking you, Mayor Jordan, and the City Council for again allowing us this opportunity to be heard and for taking your time to visit us yesterday and give some serious consideration to what the property owners had to say regarding the proposed rezoning. Obviously, by now, you've all picked up on the fact that Stonewood and Copper Creek residents fervently object to
 to this rezoning, which will benefit basically three people at the expense of 350 households and 1,000 residents.
 it bears stating again that before we purchased our homes we all did our homework we knew was accepted and it was accepted by all of us here that when we elected to build our homes in hearthstone and copper creek and invest substantial money to do so that there would eventually be small office buildings or a small restaurant at the entrance that was a known and accepted condition of ownership in these neighborhoods and let me emphasize it still is construction conformance with our zoning is completely acceptable
 Philip Cameron and Max Parker did their homework too. They knew the lots were zoned RO when they bought them, and no one is getting the raw end of any deal under RO zoning. Why, after all the commitment so many tax bank citizens have made to invest in the integrity and safety of these neighborhoods and to do what we have done to make these neighborhoods our home, why would it be okay to zone the lots NSG now?
 especially when anything you can build on NSG zone lots, you can build on RO lots, just not as big. There's a concern by the citizens that some people may be losing sight of the issue here, which is the contract that the citizens of Stonewood and Copper Creek have with the city of Fayetteville and the owners of the lots in question. The contract we have is in principle that the lots are and will remain zoned RO. You, the city council, planned it,
 You zoned it, we bought it, and we bought the promise and the belief in the integrity of this council to honor its promise. Mr. Cameron and Mr. Parker bought it too. Mr. Cameron and Mr. Parker relied on there not being a down zoning of the lots to residential only. If the residents of Stonewood started a petition last year to rezone the lots to resident only or resident agriculture only,
 It would be Mr. Cameron and Mr. Parker before you today fighting to keep the RO zoning they bought the lots under. We all relied in good faith that this City Council would honor the promises made by your predecessors and stay the course. There is no urgent triggering event for the greater good taking place here. Once again, the only disparity between RO and NSG has to do with the size of what is allowed to go on the lot, not what goes on the lot.
 Anything you can build on NSG, you can build on RO, just not as big. Under RO zoning, the project has to be something more fitting to a high-end neighborhood, not a Walmart parking lot. The red herring here is the vision being sold of a quaint pizza parlor and coffee shop, and what a wonderful addition that would be to the residents of Hearthstone, Copper Creek, and the city of Fayetteville.
 And to that we would say, if Miles James want to build a pizza parlor, he is more than free to do so under the RO zoning. Oh, and by the way, no one, not the mayor, not the city council, Mr. Cameron, Mr. Parker, the citizens of Copper Creek, Stonewood, or Fayetteville, have seen a plan, a design, a drawing, a plat, nothing. You know what the current plan is?
 It's trust me. That's what the plan is. This is America, and in God we trust. All others bring data or an actual design. Again, anything that can be built under the proposed NSG zoning can be built under RO. Size matters in real estate. That's what we all agreed to. No one is being denied any opportunities here. Here's where some may again say, but we're only talking about a pizza and coffee shop.
 That sounds great, but the rest of us are filled with skepticism born of experience. Once that zoning cat is out of the bag, anything goes and there's no stopping it. And I stated the last as I stayed at the last meeting. I know Philip Cameron and he is a good man. I don't know Max Parker or Miles James personally, but I'm sure they're fine men as well. No one's character is at issue. I want to be clear about that. Mr. Cameron and Mr. Parker bought lots one and two with a profit in mind.
 And as I also stated last week, there is nothing wrong with that. But these are sophisticated real estate men and we're fully aware of the RO zoning when they purchased. As I pointed out two weeks ago, most of us have bought stock at some time in our lives. Some of them just don't do as well as we hoped. I don't know of anyone who's ever gotten a call from their broker saying you're a great guy or gal. And you don't deserve the poor return the market served up in your investments. How about we rezone?
 I mean reclassify your shares from B common to A preferred. Let's take that Sears stock you own and rezone it to some Walmart stock. It's never happened. We have to live with our stock picks and choices. We have to be patient, hope things turn around and get out when we can with the same stock we started with. Move on to the next investment, the next stock, next acre of land or next gamble. It's not City Council's job to act as a grant guarantor
 That Cameron and Parker and James maximize their returns on their real estate investments by stacking the deck with the rezoning that benefits only them, especially at the expense of the residents of the neighborhood. Let me ask you, have you ever heard of someone changing their mind and doing something different than what they originally intended? Sure we all have. It happens every day.
 There's no fiduciary duty or moral compass or some quest to do something wonderful for the greater good that is guiding this rezoning request. So let's suppose if this were rezoned and suddenly there appears another buyer, somebody we never saw coming, and he offers a lot more money because suddenly you can build so much bigger and make so much more money.
 And suddenly, we aren't talking about the quaint, enchanting pizza parlor anymore that everyone is fixated on. We're looking at a monstrosity like a Red Lobster, or Chili's, or Red Robin, or Outback, or Jose's, or a strip mall. That's no good. And to any of you who say, that wouldn't happen, let me give you an example of how quickly a change in ownership turns a situation on its head.
 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. is a piece of real estate that's under new ownership. It's called the White House. You could say that as of February 2017, it was rezoned from blue to red. And I'm making and offering no judgment one way or another politically. I'm merely using the change of ownership of the White House to a new owner. And the key here is that it was a new owner that many citizens never saw coming,
 to show that this rezoning could open the door to some very significant and unanticipated changes. How much more stark could the example be than the difference between Obama and Trump? That's what you're gambling with at our expense, right at our doorstep, and we are not willing to sign off with a leap of faith that nothing bad could possibly happen.
 Remember, no one has seen a plan of any kind. We're all moving forward on trust me. Where have we heard that before? The residents of Stonewood and Copper Creek include doctors, lawyers, engineers, business owners, CEOs, CFOs, company presidents, business person, military, etc.,
 We are a smart, informed, capable group and more than qualified to assess a situation, come to our own conclusions, and make our own decisions regarding what's best for our families and our neighborhood. We are the only ones who will have to live with the carnage if things take a left after the rezoning cat is out of the bag. Why should we face the dim prospects of lower property values and selling our homes in a neighborhood that is way less desirable than when we bought here?
 It is simply not acceptable to the residents who have made this neighborhood their home and invested a ton of sweat equity to suddenly allow rezoning of these lots. To do so would be patently unfair to all of us, to the investments we have made, to the safety of the children we are trying to do our very best to raise here. Rezoning is changing the rules in the middle of the game. It isn't fair, it isn't equitable, and it just isn't right.
 There's not a household in either Stonewood or Copper Creek who's going to have a more fulfilling life due to a bigger pizza parlor being built on that corner. No one. We all have more going on in our lives than that, I can promise you. And if pizza is that important, thankfully we are covered. Marco's Pizza, Jim's Razorback, and Pizza Hut are all within 1.2 miles.
 Sbarro Pizza is within four minutes, Guido's is within four minutes, and Mellow Mushroom is within five minutes away. But what about the rest of the Fayetteville citizens? They would have to drive by at least a dozen pizza purveyors to get to the proposed location, as well as 248 full-service restaurants, 63 bars, and 175 fast food restaurants. No one's going hungry.
 I would go on a limb and say that not one citizen that's not involved in this transaction proactively sought any of you out and begged you for another big pizza parlor and coffee shop, passionately making the case it was needed to enhance the quality of their life. The truth is this whole city could not care less if any kind of restaurant ever got built on that corner. They already have 486 other choices.
 Bottom line, voting for this rezoning under the guise that it is for the greater good and it's for all the citizens of Fayetteville just doesn't hold water. Not one bit. Every member of the City Council is an elected official. The homeowners of Hearthstone and Copper Creek put a lot of money in the pockets of this city we love, and we are glad to do it. You all ran for office, and every single one of you stated that you would listen to your constituency, assess every issue on its merits, and make good decisions.
 Not clouded by self-interest. With that, 350 households and 1,000 citizens respectfully ask the City Council to honor your pledges and promises, to honor the contract you made with the citizens of these neighborhoods when you zoned them RO 16 years ago, and do the right thing and vote against this upzoning from RO to NSG. Thank you, Mayor Johnson.
 Ladies and gentlemen of the City Council, again, for your time this evening. Your kind consideration of us and our respective interests is sincerely appreciated. Yes. Question for the Speaker? Yes. How safe is any neighborhood in this city if we vote to change the zoning at your neighborhood?
 Well, I can only speak for my neighborhood, and right now my neighborhood is as safe as I guess I could ever hope for it to be. And I do not relish the thought of attracting foreign matter to the neighborhood, foreign people. And I say foreign, I mean people that are not of the neighborhood, and to take the chance of bringing in whatever may come,
 As they ride down the street and they're hungry and they're getting ready to go on whatever kind of binge they may be going on, they just don't need to be doing it in our neighborhood. I did a bad job framing my question. How safe do you feel any neighborhood in the city would be safe from a rezoning into a more commercial development? If this one goes, I don't think anything is safe. Thank you.
 Okay, Sarah Bunch. Yes, I have a question for staff. The speaker brought up a couple of issues about we haven't seen a plat or a plan or drawing or any, I'm sorry.
 I almost poked my eye out a minute ago. The speaker mentioned that they had not seen a plan, a drawing, anything like that. And I was wondering if you would address that and explain is that normal at this stage in the process or is it to be expected that they should have provided these things? Because it sounds like they're saying they should have these things and they don't. Yeah. Thank you.
 This is just considering the rezoning. So it's just the zoning of the property. The city council is not allowed to consider development or plans or plats. So if the developer had something, we would tell the council, and at this point you cannot consider that because the zoning is the zoning. So it is not appropriate to be talking about development, what could or could not, once a specific development plan or not, cannot be considered with the zoning.
 And I might add for the from the stuff that the only time that we do consider a Development with his own is when we have a planned zoning district where the zoning and the development is coming at the same time As a matter of an application Thank you very much. Okay. Yeah. Good evening. My name is Max Parker You've heard a lot about me this evening and I'm glad to be here I do have to say that um
 It seems like there's an awful lot of opinions and conjecture within the neighborhood, and I personally would have liked to have seen some more interaction where that could have been discussed, and I think that would have been a very good thing. I'm sorry that hasn't occurred. My understanding is this could be the first property to receive the new zoning designated as NSG or neighborhood services. It's a very deserving and appropriate property to be the first.
 NSG for the city of Fayetteville. There's, it's on the corner of Crossover and Hearthstone, and I understand you got to go see it yesterday. I'm sorry I didn't get a opportunity to meet with you. I would have liked to have done that. It's on the corner, it's on a major corner on a very major road, over 20,000 cars per day. It's adjacent to a major city attraction that has events of over 4,000 people at one event. There's hundreds of people that use that area and there are currently no services.
 In some discussions with people at the Botanical Garden, they said that every day people stop in to get water or something to drink. They don't have that service. The zoning of neighborhood services is not a commercial zoning, and I attribute part of the effort that we're not talking about a CS zoning tonight to the neighbors. They had an effort in the planning process.
 phase and in the planning phase, I'm one of the owners. I'm not the developer. In the planning phase, my understanding is the developers met with planning, talked through different where they wanted the building to be in relation to setbacks and their desire, my understanding, is to have it not right on top of the homes, which in our zoning forces. As it was stated earlier tonight, many things
 When I look at it as an untrained city planner, when I look at RO, what can happen in RO and what can happen in SG, they look very similar to me. And depending on what your use is, either one can be considered more restrictive. If I had someone that wanted to purchase that property that was going to build duplexes, they can build 24 per acre.
 RO and less than that on NSG. So it depends on what you're going to do with it as to whether it's a value or not a value. It's certainly of no monetary value to me which way it goes. Phillip and I have owned the property since 2008.
 It was priced in 2008 based on comparable sold properties 10 years ago. It's the same now. So we don't gain monetarily, as it's been said. That's not true. Of course, we are going to develop the property. I mean, we plan to sell it as RO, as NSG, as whatever a good use for that property is. And I think that we have a good opportunity in front of us with...
 to have a very responsible development that would be responsible to the neighborhood. It's a beautiful neighborhood. It's full of very nice people, very smart people. There is no intent to do harm to anyone in the neighborhood. The property will be developed. It's been a green field for a long time, and I'm sure that's hard to think about it not being a grassy field, but I can only mow land for so long. Thank you.
 Ten years is my limit. The neighborhood services zoning was something that city planning, at a city planning level, and after the discussions in this room with the neighbors on the CS zoning, that's where it was headed back in the planning phases. The things that CS offered did allow drive-throughs. It allowed things that weren't important.
 to this developer. The NSG provides things that allow the buildings and setbacks and in my mind, everybody has a different opinion. Would I rather have a building, I've got a seven foot brick wall, would I rather have a seven foot brick wall and some trees and a building right there? Would I rather have the building farther away? I would choose the building farther away. Everybody has something different they would choose.
 The NSG is called Neighborhood Services. It was designed by Fayetteville planners to be as a neighborhood buffer. So it's not commercial. It's not residential. It's made for neighborhoods, which we have a beautiful one here to preserve. The thing that I asked the city board to do, you understand zoning and you understand developments and you work with a lot of different neighborhoods.
 I've done a lot of real estate, but I've never worked with a neighborhood in this way. And it hasn't been a bad way, but it's been a surprising way to me. Surprising in the sense that there's so much negativity towards a thought of what could be an NSG as opposed to RO, and I just don't get that. When I read it, it looks to me like they're very similar. They have some different setbacks, and you can do different things within them.
 I've heard that it's not just for the citizens of the neighbors behind. And there are 90-something neighbors here today. There are 350 homes within a stone's throw of there. So there's a lot of homes. There's 20,000-plus cars a day. There's 4,000 people events. There's a lot that goes on in there, which someone wanted to recount the history of what had happened in that area. And it's very interesting, but at the time when this was thought of,
 chosen, selected, these zonings did not exist. You didn't have the opportunity to choose these zonings. And the road was nowhere near that kind of traffic count. Botanical garden was weeds and trees. A lot has changed. And my thought is that this board duty is to look at what changes. Nothing stays the same.
 And so I ask you to look at what the changes have been and in your judgment, what zoning would allow the most applicable and contribute the most to the neighborhood, the 20,000 cars a day, the rest of the citizens of Fayetteville, the botanical garden, and the users? Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor, Councilmembers. I'll be very brief. My name is Blake Jorgensen. Probably mostly to blame for how we got to this point tonight. We do, as you may know, we do civil engineering. And we've done a lot in this town. And over the years, we do our best to work with staff, work with commissioners, work with the councilmembers. And when we originally brought this concept to staff,
 Certainly the idea of doing a conditional use permit was on the table. However, we went through the iterations of pros and cons and we've done conditional use permits. They're not perfect, sometimes they're flawed. We did that Culpeper one just north of FAC. You get a conditional use permit for a structure, you get it built, you go try to put a sign up. It's not zoned appropriately. You got to go back and rezone it to put a sign in.
 We could certainly be requesting the commission use and at the planning commission level. However, with this new zoning in law in place, and it did, it happened fairly on the fly because we sat down with staff and the appropriate zoning for what we were wanting to do was community services. However, it was with the caveat that there's some things that not even the owners, the developers and us wanted.
 And we sat down with the neighborhood and we tried to fill them out and we understand they have a lot of emotional reasons to not like what the particular development that we're trying to present is and Instead of a bill of assurance that limited community services to what we're wanting to do Commissioners and staff had this new zoning and we thought it was the key to what we wanted to do so and
 We're here tonight because we've listened to staff, we've listened to commissioners, and we've listened to what we feel like the 2030 plan is aimed towards. And I grew up just south of here back in 1985. Parents still live there. Go to Lake Fayetteville all the time. I'm not going to go into personal reasons why I think it's good or bad. I simply want to state that the reason we're at this point is that we've tried to collectively work with
 the city to arrive at a zoning that we feel is appropriate and not get into a tangled mess that condition use permits can sometimes offer. So I'm sure that there's been a lot discussed tonight. I know everyone's exhausted, but if y'all have questions for me, I'll try to answer them. So thanks a lot. Yeah, thank you. What questions? Do we have any questions for him? Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? Good evening, Mayor, City Council.
 My name is Miles James. I'm a chef. I'm not really a developer. I have a design background. I studied architecture at the University of Arkansas before going to culinary school in Vermont. I came back home and developed some properties here with my family. Starting in 1990, we purchased the old mill in Johnson and developed a nice 46-room hotel and
 a 200 seat restaurant, James at the Mill. We've been there for 24 years at James at the Mill restaurant and 26 years at Inn at the Mill. We've also developed Inn at Carnal Hall and Ella's Restaurant. I was one of the developers there and owners and chef. We also developed 28 Springs Restaurant in Asylum Springs with Todd and Shelly Simmons.
 And then most recently I came up with an idea for a pizzeria, and it's a little bit more than a pizzeria. It's MJ Pizzeria in Springdale. And you might look at our space there in Springdale and think, okay, if we buy this land and it is rezoned, that it might look similar to what we've built there.
 Basically, that space came to me through one of my friends who became my partner there at MJ Pizzeria. Part of his business wasn't working, so we came up with this concept of wood-fired pizzas and homemade pastas.
 beautiful salads, using local farm fresh produce and making our own sausage and meatballs and sauce and developing great recipes that are really tasty. A family-friendly restaurant. By the way, our hours there of operation are every day, seven days a week, until 9 p.m. at night. And on Friday and Saturday, we're open until 10 p.m.
 Some of the comments that have been made over the last couple months talking about this, I just want to really talk about what I want out of this development. I want something that really connects to the neighborhood, that connects to the trail system. I think that...
 that this corner is significant in the development of Fayetteville. And the decisions that you make here tonight are really critical in the development path that, you know, around 265. I drive 265 every single day. My daughter swims at the Jones Center. She's an incredible swimmer. We're there.
 daily. And so I've seen 265 develop. I live on the backside of Mount Sequoia. I've lived here my entire life.
 I'm a product of Fayetteville Public School Systems. I give back to the community. I've given thousands and thousands of dollars to this community through efforts in catering and working for the Fayetteville Public Education Foundation. And I really love Fayetteville. I want to develop business in Fayetteville. We've had the chance to...
 develop in Johnson, in Springdale, in Asylum Springs, and on the University of Arkansas campus. And this is my first opportunity to develop something significant in Fayetteville. So it's my intention to do something here that has a great plan, a great architectural plan, something when you come to Fayetteville, when you come to northwest Arkansas, I want people to say, hey, did you visit Crystal Bridges? Did you visit the Botanical Garden? Did you visit...
 you know, the development next to the botanical garden. I think we have a real opportunity here to really connect with botanical garden. Um, I, I really appreciate the comments and the concern of the homeowners in, in, uh, Copper Creek and, um, the surrounding, um, Hearthstone neighborhoods. And, and I understand that, um, that they are concerned about a number of things, um,
 One of the things that I really want to talk about is sound ordinance and light ordinance and landscape plan. Those are really, really important to me that we create a significant landscape plan when we develop this property. I'm talking with Botanical Garden right now. They have some big plans. I want to help them with that. They want to help us with our plans. We want to have...
 the farmers market come back that was there a few years ago. I'd love to see that come back on the weekends. I would love to, uh, develop some great working gardens at this property that, that can help us support our restaurant. Um, we want to develop a coffee shop. I love that business. I love that culture that goes along with, with, uh, coffee business. Um,
 you know, as a chef, you tend to be up late at night. And, uh, as I get older and daughters in school and, and, um, you know, I'm up earlier. So, uh, that coffee crowd is, is very important to us. Um,
 We know that we have something special here in this piece of land. It's light protected. It's safe. There's a great community right next to it. I think we have a great opportunity to really connect with this community. And I want these guys to understand that we want to do something here that is really family oriented, that is a really nice restaurant. It's more than a pizzeria restaurant.
 It just happens to have great pizza at this restaurant. And some of the things that, you know, are really that we want to talk about are this landscaping plan. I want something that will buffer us from the neighborhood. And we want the botanical gardeners to come over and give us ideas and help us out with this plan. We want a working garden.
 you know, it's been said, hey, they're going to have live music here. Live music is not important to me as a business owner. It makes me zero dollars.
 So I can easily, you know, concede with no live music. To say that we'll never have live music, I can't say that we'll never have live music. There may be a time where people want to have a band, but I will never put the band facing these homes and play music until 2 or 3 or 4 in the morning. I mean, that's just not what we do. So...
 I'd be happy to answer any questions about, you know, lighting plan or landscape plan or noise ordinance or any of those things. And by the way, we have to, you know, if you vote yes tonight, we have to get all this approved through planning. This all has to go back to them, and our plan has to be, you know, a very good plan, and it has to be approved before we can build it. So I think that...
 I'm excited for this development opportunity, and I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Mr. Jennings, do we have any questions for him? Mayor, council, my name is Phillip Cameron, 1663 Viewpoint, and I appreciate the opportunity. And also I appreciate Miles and Blake's and Max's comments, and hopefully that answers some questions for the rest of the group, because it isn't about trying to make money or doing something underhanded. It's been such a...
 a drive to create that sort of thought that we're going to do something underhanded and that we're just trying to make money off of this deal. And the reality, like Max said, it isn't that at all. If you just listen to Miles, that's what we heard. And that's why Max and I signed the contract that said, we will support you trying to get it rezoned because of that. That's the reason that we did that. And so it was really, we thought...
 at this point seems odd but we thought that it was going to be a positive for the neighborhood we thought the neighborhood would embrace that and so all i want to do is just recap the fact that you know you got 20 000 cars you've got a stoplight there we've got 80 000 people a year at the botanical gardens according to their website we've got ro and that's a pretty unique um
 When you think about, and somebody said that earlier, when you think about that being built in 2000, and it has, it has...
 Is it Castlewood that runs up there? So that's kind of an access to all the businesses, 14 RO businesses with this artery that carries traffic away from the neighborhood. So it's a really neat design and one that today we'd be proud of. So I just wanted you guys to do what Max and Miles said. Just think about it from the standpoint of rezoning what makes best sense for Fayetteville long-term.
 not only for the people that are in the subdivision, there's 100 people that signed the thing that they didn't want it, but there's also 350 houses or 250 houses more behind them. And so there are lots of opportunities for people to enjoy that. So I just ask that you would take the time to consider that and consider the facts and not so much the emotions. Thanks. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to enter? Come on up.
 My name is Carol Chamberlain. I live at 3267 Waterstone. And everyone here has been here, I've been here three years this August. And I moved here primarily because I have family here. But one of the other major reasons why I decided to come is in poll after poll, survey after survey,
 Fayetteville, Arkansas is one of the, at the worst, top 25, but usually top 10 places, cities to live in in this country. And when you say, okay, I want a good quality of life, that comes into play. Before I lived here, I lived in Las Vegas, Nevada for 30 years. I saw growth. I saw growth you do not want, guaranteed. I saw neighborhoods that were nice go bad real quick. The neighborhood I live in, I love it.
 It is the first house I looked at here in Fayetteville, and I said, this is it. I walked in the front door. I said, this is where I want to live. And I have to tell you, one of the things I like, just north of our subdivision is the city line with Springdale. And if you start and you drive on Crossover from Huntsville Road all the way north, you will know when you leave the city of Fayetteville. The flavor changes.
 It goes from this beautiful boulevard with Parkway in the middle to Four Lane Road. The name, the city changes, the name of the road changes, and the flavor changes. And what I'm asking you is keep Fayetteville one of the top ten places to live in this country. Don't change the flavor completely.
 and live up to what your city planned 2030 goals. We will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priorities. By doing that, the city will grow, and it will grow appropriately. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us? Hi, my name is Tammy Cagle, and I actually live in the Copper Creek Division. But the reason I'd like to speak is because I'm an avid bicyclist and runner.
 And we specifically bought in this neighborhood when it was, you know, the trail was just starting to develop around Lake Fayetteville. And, of course, there's a mountain bike trail there, too, which is fabulous. And now we have this greenway. Well, guess where we cross? We did it today. We crossed right there. Okay.
 on 265 and Hearthstone. That's how you get there. And you can't believe the amount of traffic. And we have the signal lights that help us get across that place. And that's, it's incredible. I can't imagine having to deal with cars coming out of there at the same time I'm trying to get across. Okay. It's one thing that I'm dealing with just the neighborhood cars, because they expect it. Everybody in this neighborhood wants the bikers, wants the runners, because that adds value.
 Those are the places people want to live in an active area. So now you go and add in, as Mark called it, foreign matter to the situation that's not used to all those bicyclists, not used to all those runners and the dog walkers and the kids that we've got in that area. Because even people come across from the Botanic Gardens sometimes just come across to see the neighborhood.
 All of a sudden you've got to contend with cars trying to put on a hearthstone that have eaten in that area because more than likely the parking lot is going to dump out onto hearthstone. You may have one onto 265, but it's going to dump onto hearthstone so they can get to the light. Now, last night we had a friend in Dallas.
 got to see a bicycle wreck right in front of him in a parking lot that where cars were going five miles an hour. So we have an area that is made for green, it's a part of the green network, right? Back up to the cattle field,
 We're right there at the county line, everything. We had a problem and we didn't know who to call. We called Springdale, Fayetteville, and Washington County because we didn't know because we're in such an odd area. So if we have a fire, we just call everybody because you don't know who's going to get it because we have the cattle fields. We have the greenway. And that's something we want to keep. And when we started this, you said we weren't going to talk about what was going in there.
 That was very clear from our city attorney. We're talking about a re-zone. So what goes in there today might not be there five years. And I believe you quoted last week, 80% go out of business of restaurants or coffee shops or something like that. Real high statistic after, what is it, three years? Being a 30-year resident of Dallas, I can tell you how restaurants go in and out of business. It's phenomenal.
 cute little coffee shop and stuff, you don't need to have that in your mind. It's kind of like you're rezoning for commercial. That's what you're redoing, okay? Then anything can go in there, okay? Not something that you're thinking in your mind right now by a guy who's great for our city. Think further down the line. And that's what I want the concept to be, is we're here to talk about rezoning only, not a business. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us?
 Well, I got close. Please, come on up. Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Pam Forrester. I live at 3044 Waterstone Drive, so my house is across the street from the property. Do you all know? So, I apologize. I'm a little nervous. There have been a great deal of letters thrown around this evening. And our... I'm sorry.
 Thank you, Tom. We're in no hurry. Well, they are. I've heard it. Thank you. I needed that. Okay, here we go. There have been a great deal of letters thrown around this evening. An R and an O, an N and S, a G and a C and an S. The two most important letters to me are nowhere to be found in this group. They are a C and a P. It doesn't deal with restaurants or parking lots.
 lighting or dumpsters. They belong to a 13-year-old girl, and they stand for cerebral palsy. I've lived on Waterstone Drive for most of her life, and as she has grown, so has the need for a house compatible for her. Diagnosed as a spastic quadriplegic at birth, Elizabeth lives her life from a purple wheelchair. Over the years, we have traded out one wheelchair for another one, each one a little bigger than the last.
 Elizabeth in her wheelchair share our 2,500 square foot home with three siblings, two labs and one mom who knows the time has come for a handicap accessible home with larger doorways, ramps. And my dream of a roll-in shower as lifting a 100-pound teenager and manipulating the door jams has become quite cumbersome. I have the ability and resources to move even without having to sell the house on Waterstone.
 So you're probably thinking, why don't you move? The reason is very simple. I absolutely love my neighborhood. And I love my neighbors and the relationships that I have cultivated with them. I love that I can push a wheelchair as my son rides his bike ahead of me to a pond to feed the ducks or to the park where Elizabeth can sit with her siblings and play without the sounds of clanging trash cans and the rush of cars buzzing by as they try to grab a quick bite to eat.
 But most importantly, I have chosen to stay in my home, walls nicked and gouged from wheelchairs, not making the corner as we push her from room to room, choosing to navigate her now 5-foot, 7-inch body through a 34-inch doorway for bath and bedtime, and continue to find creative ways to arrange furniture, because I don't believe I will find another neighborhood where the neighbors will leave a lamp on throughout the night for a little girl. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us tonight?
 Okay, I'm good. Okay. That's all right. Karen Stevens, I live at 3116 High Meadows. And I just again, I'm coming back to this isn't about what's gonna be there. It's about the rezoning. That's what we were instructed. That's true. It's also been stated on both sides that they can build with RO. That's all we're asking.
 We want it left RO. And come what may, I was told to me at the meeting yesterday, we may not like what RO gets us.
 But that is what we were told. That is what the owner of the property was told. Everybody knew it was RO. So I do not understand why we're here numerous times trying to change this if he can build what he wants to build under RO. Let's leave it RO, and we'll all call it a day. Thank you. Thank you. All right, all right, all right.
 I'm Nathanie Collins and I live at 3089 Waterstone Drive. And I know a lot of you are expecting my husband to speak because he's been in contact with you. But I've changed it up a little bit and I asked him if I could speak tonight. And I'm going to make it short and to the point. So, we have a six-year-old daughter as you mentioned last time.
 And my concern for her is, yes, I know it's going to close from 9 from what Mr. James is saying and even 10. But my daughter goes to bed at 9 or goes to bed at 8. And she has to go to school the next day. And she has those sounds and she has those lights in her room. I just ask of you, how is she going to be able to rest and be ready for the next day of school? Thank you.
 I also ask for my neighbors that also have children and grandchildren who might stay over that they don't want that in their backyard. They want a residential office and I just ask that you keep it that way. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Here we go. All right, Sarah. I think what is really important for the council to keep into consideration is this parcel from a regional standpoint.
 And to keep in mind that it is along a major regional transportation corridor.
 It is on the box, the mayor's box around the city. It is across the street from a major regional tourist destination, both the botanical gardens of the Ozarks and the Lake Fayetteville parks, and access to the trail there. And if anything, this isn't spot zoning. We need to think about this as a crossover overlay district. And how do we want that corridor to develop? Because we're setting a precedent for development along that entire box around the city.
 And I think it's been clear from community feedback as a whole that our city wants us to grow a livable transportation network, so that would allow us to or encourage transit-oriented development. They want us to make traditional town form standards, so that involves pulling the buildings up to the street. And you know, really when you think about this, what we're trying to decide is do we
 the crossover corridor to look like North College, where the predominant feature along the street are cars and parking lots? Or do we want to set a new standard where what we see are buildings and places for people and businesses? And, you know, if you actually compare the two units, what all that the neighborhood services does is it adds three additional use units.
 Use unit 10, which are three-family dwellings, so that would give us opportunities for attainable housing or varieties in housing type. It gives us use unit 24, which is home occupations, which I don't see being an objectionable use. And use unit 41, which is accessory dwelling units, otherwise known as the mother-in-law quarters, the granny flats.
 It actually has lower height limits, so we're going down from 60 feet down to 45 feet, so we're having less likelihood of light trespass from tall buildings.
 But ultimately what it is doing, it's setting a new standard for urban form and we're making a place across from the botanical gardens. And do we want this to look like a place for people or a place for cars? And I think that by having the form-based development, the form-based code of neighborhood services, that gives us that urban fabric that our citizens have asked us to create in the 2030 city plan. I realize that change is scary, but
 There is nothing objectionable in the actual use units that we're adding to the property, and if anything, having a build to...
 Zone instead of a setback zone encourages putting the building at the road further away from the residents So I think it's a net benefit to the community That to the neighborhood and to the community at large and it sets a good standard for development along that major regional Transportation corridor and I also think it would be nice to have a place You know when I take my grandmother to the Botanical Gardens to go across the street for brunch and
 you know, think about in terms of what potential uses could be there. And I think that we would see much more vitality with the neighborhood services. So that's the way I will be supporting. John. Adam Smith, an old man who's now a dead Scotsman, said in 1776, what is wise for a single household is seldom folly for a great nation. Let that sink in. I think what's important here more than technical terms
 in zoning classifications, fundamentally, are we gonna keep our word or are we gonna breach our word? The neighborhood bought in an RO, we're talking about changing the deal on them. I fundamentally have disagreements with that. I think most of you on the council would disagree with that. But more broadly, the point I was trying to make with my poorly framed question,
 was no neighborhood in the city is safe from a rezoning classification that will bring more vitality to your neighborhood when you want to keep it quiet and simple that's the bigger picture we need to honor our words to our citizens they bought in an RO they want it to stay RO normally I'm arguing for development normally I'm arguing the other case but remember what I said at the beginning
 What trumps my development and growth strategy is variety. Variety serves our people the best, not a stated goal which makes cookie-cutter neighborhoods. We all look the same. We don't want to look the same. People are different. We have Democrats, we have Republicans. We have conservatives, we have liberals. We have all kinds of varieties of interest here. Let them choose for themselves what they want. That's all I'm asking. Leave them free to choose.
 Thank you. Okay. Justin. Thank you, Mayor. So when I started on this council in 2010, I wanted to use a couple of foundation principles, one being that in a democracy type situation, I always believed that what's good for the majority of people is probably the way you should lean because that's how we do voting, that's how we do a lot of our planning, that's how we do things up here.
 And if I was voting for the majority of the city of Fayetteville, whether it was Ward 3, because I've talked to a lot of people in Ward 3 about this, not just the neighborhood, who I really appreciate the neighborhood being so passionate about this. It's very important.
 But the entire city, the entire region. And a lot of times I will agree with John. A lot of times I'll agree with Sarah. They're both talking about variety. It's the way the variety happens is that we're talking about here. And if I was voting based on the majority of the people, I would have pushed two weeks ago to get this voted and we wouldn't be here right now.
 I would have pushed for it to be done because to overturn city staff and overturn a near unanimous decision by the city planning commission almost never happens. I don't even know if it's ever happened while I've been on the council. So if we do overturn it, then why do we have the process that we have in place? That's troubling to me. And also...
 There are a lot of people who move to that area that don't just go to the botanical gardens. There's obviously tons of people that go to the botanical gardens from out of East Fayetteville. But people do want services of some sort. They would like to see restaurants or other things go in there. But that's not to say that they couldn't be done through RO. So it brought me back to that. It brought me back to what does RO look like?
 Because the way the market is and I'm not a real estate agent you are But you might be able to answer this but I believe the market here is much better for development and for business entities to go in and commercial space now than it was a few years ago and if you put your bike on that trail in the parking lot there across the street and you ride to the other end of the trail you see restaurants and other businesses that are thriving and
 So it stands to reason someone's going to come in, if not Mr. James, somebody else, at some point in the next who knows how long, and say, wait a minute, this makes total sense. So maybe I will build 2,000 square foot multiple units or whatever that the zoning may be. But what does that get you? I don't know. Somebody brought up North College. I drove down North College the other day and turning on Township and College.
 I saw a whole bunch of 2,000 square foot buildings pushed back with the parking lots in front to the point that Sarah made about cars. I saw a bank building. I saw a fast food joint. I saw an abandoned convenience store. I saw a locked place, a used car lot, another abandoned building, and a couple of other things that are all about 2,000 feet or less buildings. Is that what we want there? I wouldn't think so. I would rather have something that's pushed up to encourage proper development. Now, I made stars by...
 I think five names that spoke. And coincidentally, they're all people that live on Waterstone. Because no matter what we do, no matter if we leave it alone or whether we rezone it, those are the people that are most affected by this. I told a friend of mine that I've known for a long, long time who lives multiple streets back from this that was upset. I said, let's really talk about how much this is going to affect you. It's not. The people that are on Waterstone are going to be affected. And I feel really, really...
 concerned about that. So what I rather have, go, somebody mentioned Springdale. Turn right out of your neighborhood and go look at some of those Springdale strip center type places that are pushed back from the street. You have parking lots, strip zones, go around the strip zones, strip buildings, go around the back of those. You'll see trash dumpsters, you'll see things that I promise you smell worse than anything that's gonna come out of that neighborhood. You don't want that either. I mean, at some point we've gotta say,
 If it's going to be developed, let's control it now. I've lived in East Fayetteville for a very long time. I've lived here my entire life. I remember 265 and Crossover when there was nothing there but a stoplight, a Hot Wheels grocery store, and a trailer-sized liquor store. We used to go four-wheeling up on the land where Harps is sitting right now. And I never dreamed that it would change to what it is right now. And I certainly wish we had planned it better because that is a lousy area
 to for pedestrians and it's not that great for cars and we are now faced with trying to fix some of those things in this in the street committee i lean on some of our more urban experts for development on how do we fix this massive problem that we created and what i don't want to do is create the same sort of problem up and down that road because i have a feeling that if this development happens regardless of the zoning this or another development we're going to have to
 It is going to continue up that street. We are growing for a reason. You look at the population projections, and a lot of them are going to live in East Fayetteville. We don't have the services that we need there, regardless of what they are. So my question to myself is, do we push the 2,000-foot limit, and then possibly, to someone's point, someone comes in and proves compatibility to bigger things? I mean, I don't know.
 But we're not to the planning stage of anything. There's been a tremendous amount of misinformation that I've been given on this entire project. The project that doesn't supposedly exist. But last night at the tour, I was handed a plan that said MJ Concept 1. Now, this is not MJ from Miles. I don't know what this is from. And I know we're not supposed to talk about things. But, I mean...
 I think Mr. Scalise said, I've never seen one plan, not a new, I don't know what effort, words for effect he used, but I've seen a couple. And I know they're not even remotely what is being considered by any developer. So I don't, there's been a ton of misinformation here. And there's been a lot of tactics that brought people passionately together, and I get that. And those people along Waterstone, those are the ones that concern me the most. I have a question for the city attorney.
 Can we as a council approve this zoning and then restrict the light pollution, noise pollution, odor intrusion, any of those things? The top three things I heard were noise, odor, and light intrusion. Those were the top three things I heard across the board from neighbors. Do we have the power to restrict what the Planning Commission can then approve, or does that have to be done at Planning?
 You can't really condition a rezoning on things like that. However, the Unified Development Code, you've already, in passing that, have regulations about light restrictions and requiring light not to escape the location. The noise ordinance is not part of the UDC. In fact, it's part of the Fayetteville Code, and that's enforced by the Fayetteville Police Department.
 We don't have very many restrictions that we can do on smells. Smells are something that's probably pretty much beyond our power to do much with. But all of that, none of that is related to zoning.
 except that if you do allow a zoning that would allow uses that might create light problems, and they'd be more likely from the parking lots and cars driving through them rather than the fixtures in the parking lot because we've got a pretty good handle on them. We work very hard on that to try to protect neighbors.
 Apart from what you've already done, we can't do anything else. Zoning is a decision yes or no on this. An applicant can occasionally put some conditions on with a bill of assurance. That has to be voluntary and offered and has not been in this case. So that they're, and I'm not asking for one, but that's the only kind of restriction that can be placed on a zoning. We can't place anything on it. And since there's not a development, there can't be a, I mean, there's no way to get a bill of assurance because we don't even know who's going to own it. I mean, it's not...
 We don't have any plans. We don't have anything. That's done through planning. As the chief of staff said, if an applicant wanted to actually present their concept for this development, they still could present a planned zoning district. It doesn't have development approval, but it does have some parts of the development which are –
 or can have parts of the development and show how the development will be pretty much done. It's not development approval, it's a zoning decision. It's not as complicated as the PZDs used to be where you would approve the zoning and the development at the same time. We're not, we don't do that anymore.
 But that would be one way that a proposal and a proposed development could be presented that would be something that you could rely upon. Because if it was then adopted by the city council, then they could show the access, they could show the location of the buildings, parking lots, and things like that. So that could be relied upon. But anything else...
 No, you can't rely upon any other statements. The zoning is just allowing these uses under these criteria or setbacks or build to lines and then anything that meets that criteria can go in there. Does that answer your question or? Yeah. Probably more confused than ever. No, I guess I wish I was more powerful than I am, but that's probably not uncommon.
 Well, we're not voting on a development. If we were, I think we would find that we would want someone with a community mind that was relying on local sustaining foods and qualities and all those sort of things. But we're not doing that. So we have to look past, as the lady said, to the next development and the next development. But I don't want the next development and the next development to turn into that part of North College that looks absolutely different.
 horrible when people drive into our city and a lot of people do drive into our city right past that 265 and We've spent an amazing amount of time over the last few years and I know that all my petty and some other people are behind This new way to do college Avenue. We wouldn't have to do it if we would have done it the right way in the first place We're we're stuck now between two zonings neither one of them are very good and I
 The RO zoning provides potential for some really bad future use. The other zoning is better, but it really bothers me what it does to these six people. I don't know anything else other than saying that anything that is brought forward had better have some concern for landscape, noise pollution, light pollution.
 because I promised them I'll be there to fight for it. I went to the Subaru place, the new Subaru, which is a...
 absolutely amazing testament to sustainable lighting and sound and everything, the way they're compatible with the surrounding neighbors. And you can stand under their lights, you can walk 10 feet away and you don't see the light. It doesn't shine on the building next to it. So those are the kind of things that I hope and I lean on some of the experts on this council to help
 me and others and help this development the right way because it is those people that will be affected the most. I don't necessarily know what it will do to their property values. There's a neighborhood right up the road that 265 is literally in their backyard, and their housing prices are going up because most housing prices are going up in northwest Arkansas.
 The neighborhood seems to be, seems to think the owners have some evil intentions and even that a new development might want to have some just greedy issues. I can't imagine that whoever buys that and whoever becomes a new owner and developer won't want to be in exact trust and agreement with this neighborhood in some way. Why would anybody put a business in front of a neighborhood that hates them?
 I just can't imagine that from planning stage all the way up you'll be involved in it You need to be involved in it and i'll be involved in it because these six people deserve that So it's it is very very difficult But I think to to go against city staff and to go against the planning commission Is very very difficult unless there are some clear reasons to do it And I think we can make this work and develop it in the proper way that to sarah's point will will really create
 a better way of moving forward in development in that area and all the way up to 65. Thank you, Mayor. No, no. We've had public comment unless Council Member brings you up. Mark. This is a very tough decision for us because we're looking at future development, and we have endorsed form-based development as we move forward. But I do have an experience of being the president of my neighborhood, which –
 is a neighborhood that's constantly faced with change. That's the Wilson Park neighborhood. And I also was the president of the Council of Neighborhoods. And it was through that experience that brought me to City Council. Because what I know is every neighborhood has a different character. And I respect the character of that neighborhood.
 And as I look at making decisions, I think when you make a decision on zoning, especially rezoning, you ask the people of the neighborhood, and the neighborhood has clearly spoken that they want to continue with the RO. There may be unintended consequences. It may not meet the vision that I have personally as we move forward, because I know what has happened on College Avenue, which is...
 on the edge of my neighborhood. But what I am going to do today is respect those that have spoken in the neighborhood who feel, and they live there, they're there every day, that an RO zoning is what they bought their property with, it's what they want, and so I will be supporting the RO out of respect for the individuals that have spoken because in their
 personal experience, not my experience, but their personal experience, they feel like RO is going to meet the needs for them as they move forward. So that's how simple I'm going to make my decision whenever we go to vote on this. Okay. Adela. Well, yes, indeed, this has been a difficult decision. But I, like Alderman Kenyon,
 have experienced a lot of change in the neighborhood that we bought into 12 years ago. We are having a large Catholic church and school across the street that wasn't there. We're having a large development, 50-some houses across the street from where we live.
 But what we knew was that change happens. And that's what's happening at this time. You know, it occurred to me today one very significant thing. And that is, and I found out exactly pretty close to how many houses there are that we're talking about. It's about 365 homes.
 And I said, well, we've heard from about 100 people one way or another. We've heard from, you know, the petition and e-mails and phone calls.
 And, you know, as I figure it, that's not near 365. And I have heard from several of the 365 who are excited about the proposition. For one thing, they've lived in Fayetteville a long time like we have, and they know what an excellent eating establishment Mr. James has.
 and he has never had one go under. Have you thought about that? 26 years. And I know a lot of eating places go under.
 But I don't see his coming up with a design that's going to go under. So there are a couple of things that I think are really pertinent for you to remember, and I appreciate so much what Alderman Tennant, you know, it's his ward. And I know that he and Alderman Bunch have thought about it and talked with you so closely, and I appreciate those things.
 Appreciate a lot of the things that have been said tonight. But I think we just need to remember that we haven't heard from near all the folks who live there. And a lot of them are excited about this possibility.
 And I think that the point that it's a regional development is very significant. You know, it is across from one of the crown jewels of our area, and that's botanical gardens. And Mr. James has expressed how he hopes to connect that.
 his restaurant with the trails. And so I think that's a significant thing to remember. So I will be supporting this project as many of you already know. Thank you. Okay, okay everybody. John. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to call back to the podium the young lady in the red and white stripes. She had something to say.
 here to speak about an entirely different topic, but I would like to touch on this because I came from a very large city, a city that has more people in it than this entire state does. And I've got to tell you the things I have seen go on in that state have horrified me, which is exactly why I came to Fayetteville, is because this place is green and beautiful and has wonderful people. And I have seen that neighborhood. It was one of the neighborhoods I considered when I came here.
 I don't want to see that corner turn into a noisy, messy area, which is exactly what happens when you put large commercial buildings in a spot that small.
 It is a small spot, and I'd like to see it have the same kind of offices and buildings that Joyce has. It is so clean and pretty and well taken care of, and it's completely quiet at night. There's no noise, there's no lights, and there's no people there. That way the people in the neighborhood can have peace and quiet in their time.
 There is nothing wrong with having that zone used for something small and quiet. It does not need to be a restaurant. I come from a city that you have to drive 45 minutes to get to something decent because everything in your neighborhood is rotten.
 Everything from my house, and I don't live very far from these people, is two miles. That's less than five minutes in a car, especially with the lack of traffic around here. Your traffic jams are 15 cars. That's less than five minutes to get to anywhere in this place. The gentleman pointed out how many pizzerias there are here.
 It's choking. Chicago doesn't even have that many pizzerias. It's ridiculous. You don't need another one. It can be something else, something quiet, something that the city would like to have businesses of, like professionals. Maybe doctors can have their offices. Or lawyers. Or something else that does not require large amounts of traffic, large amounts of cars, which I've got to tell you, they will run you over because they will not pay attention to you.
 I came from a city where people are getting hit every single day because of traffic, because they do not pay attention. And they're certainly not going to pay attention to children. And children are our most valuable asset. And this city is too beautiful and too nice, and I did not move here to see it being ruined. Do not change it from RO. The people have spoken. Just because it's only 30% does not mean the rest agree. They're just too afraid to show up.
 And that's the reality of the situation is most people will not stand next to each other. The fact that this many people have should tell you something. Don't change it. It's a beautiful neighborhood in a beautiful city and we need to keep it that way. The green spaces need to be left green spaces that people can travel safely with a bicycle or on foot without having to worry about being run over by someone who's too busy stuffing a pizza into their face.
 Leave it alone. Not all change is good. Not all big change is good. We can do small change that is effective and can bring a lot of revenue into the city without causing problems. You just don't live there. You don't understand it. I don't want to see their beautiful neighborhood changed. And I don't want to see my beautiful neighborhood changed because of this sort of thing.
 The beautiful businesses that are along Joyce that keep it nice and clean and tidy are RO businesses. They are set back. They have smaller properties, smaller parking lots, smaller buildings, and they turn their lights off probably by 6 p.m. because I've never seen the lights on after that. And that is perfect for a residential neighborhood that's trying to support small children and go to a beautiful park, which would get seriously ugly, filthy, and trash-filled.
 by having businesses that are food orientated or anything that's that commercial. I work retail. I've worked retail for more than 20 years. I've seen the kind of trash that builds up that's left all over the sidewalks and the green spaces. Don't let that happen to this gorgeous, clean city. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 This would be an easy one for me to just vote and not really make a comment on but somebody that I respect asked me to speak to To share to share my thoughts and speak to a couple things that we have on the books now Yeah, I first I want to say I really could not care less who the applicant is on this rezoning or any other rezoning I think I think when we make decisions about who the applicant is and take that isn't a factor that's a very definition of arbitrary and capricious and
 We should be agnostic towards the applicant whenever we consider these things and that's what I'm making an effort to do I think I think it's really easy and it feels really good even righteous to take a pound of flesh off of somebody who's Trying to undertake a product a project. You know they're they're easy targets But I don't think those kinds of attacks to our community any good, and they do our community a disservice so
 One of the reasons I was considering not saying anything is because I'm struggling to find anything new that hasn't already been said by some of my colleagues up here. I'm very reluctant to overturn a planning commission and a staff joint recommendation generally. I do want to address one thing. I think that anybody who thinks this rezoning is going to create an urban and walkable neighborhood just by virtue of the rezoning is kidding themselves.
 The nature of crossover road today, I think, prevents that. So much more has to happen before that kind of vision, no matter who you are, whether you share it or not, but before that could happen. This may be a baby step towards that. And to be honest, I think that would be a better thing in the long run. But I don't think this rezoning really has a meaningful impact on whether that intersection is walkable or not.
 I do think it's a better rezoning. I think it's a better rezoning for a lot of the reasons that have already been said. It's got a lower height limit, has a lower residential density allowance. It requires buildings to be set farther away from the residents that are already living there. I think this rezoning is actually a lot more certain in outcomes than the residential office that's in place now. It's a lot more certain.
 And for that reason, I think it's better. You know, back whenever this was done, I think one of the weaknesses of the 90s and early 2000s in the rezoning decisions we had is that we didn't have a, we didn't have some really essential parts of the Unified Development Code or the other parts of our code that we do have today. Back then, we had to rely on conditional use permits because we didn't have things like a lighting ordinance,
 or urban residential design standards, or a well-written landscaping ordinance. The landscaping ordinance we have today, those regulations have been rewritten wholesale at least once since that time with numerous other revisions and we didn't have a lighting ordinance at all. The developments that have occurred since those regulations have been in place are so much different than the ones that occurred before we had them.
 And I trust those because I've seen the impact they have. I think they directly address a lot of the material concerns that I heard tonight and I saw whenever I watched the last meeting. So I'm very confident that we'll have different outcomes than we would have in the past. And I also think that the proposed rezoning is simply better.
 regardless of who's asking for it. I would, I think with few exceptions, I would be eager to rezone most of the residential office in the city to neighborhood services, limited or general, because it's such a better fit. And I think it's a better fit here. I also think that, you know, I wanna repeat, I do wanna repeat this. It's very important that we consider the whole and what we've heard from the whole city whenever we make decisions. And I think that's what we're tasked to do.
 And I can remember back when we asked the whole city to help plan future growth, both residential and commercial growth in the city. And almost universally, the citizens voiced their
 their desire that that growth occurred on the major corridors and concentrated towards the intersections and I think this is Exactly the kind of area where we wanted to see More moderate growth so for all those reasons not the least of which that I think Neighborhood services general is simply better and is less intense and has more certainty than residential office I'll be supporting it terrible. Yes, I
 I've spent a lot of time and energy and thought on this, and I've talked to many of the people in the neighborhood. I've talked to some of the developers. You know, I've talked to a lot of people about this. And I started trying to respond to all your emails, but there were just too many of them. So I was like, I don't have time to tell everyone I've got your email. But I read all of them. And I went to the planning meeting.
 planning commission meeting too. So I've tried to familiarize myself as much as possible with the issues and the concerns that you had as a neighborhood. But as it's been said before, as a city council member, I don't just consider one neighborhood. I have to consider what is going to be
 what I think is going to be the best move for the entire city. What's best for the whole city, what's, you know, not just this one neighborhood. And we are looking at a regional facility across the street, and this could be a part of that regional destination, I think. I feel that this is a good zoning. It provides needed services in this location.
 And I think the access to 265 is there, botanical gardens, you know, the neighborhood, it does increase walkability. I agree with Mr. Petty. It's not just a magic wand and you put one thing in that's set up close to the street and suddenly everything's walkable. It's not. It's baby steps in that direction, though. Fire and police. Yes.
 have no opposition to this development, or excuse me, this rezoning. I should use the word rezoning there. They're not concerned with it. They think it's, they haven't come back and said that it's a bad choice to put something like this or rezone this to allow this type of development that we've discussed tonight. I don't think this is going to be like College Avenue. It took college a long time to get as ugly as it is
 And it didn't happen overnight. And one of the things like, you know, Mr. Tennant had talked about driving down College Avenue, and there's just in Ward 3 from Township in that area. Well, it's not actually, you know, if you go south of Township, it's not Ward 3. But there's a lot of small businesses, and some of them are boarded up. They all have a curb cut. They all have a parking lot in the front.
 And that's a type of zoning that we don't encourage anymore and we're trying to change it as much as we can. I think this is a good choice for this area and it's the better choice than RO. I think RO has a lot of hidden things that might not turn out to be what you think it was going to be and might not be agreeable to your neighborhood.
 I have gotten calls from people who were in support of this, but they also said, I don't really feel comfortable coming out in support of this because my neighbors are so much against it. And I like my neighbors and I want to get along with my neighbors. You know, I want to, you know, I don't want, don't want to cause a big stink there. So I have gotten a few calls from people who were in support of this and, and just didn't, didn't feel comfortable coming up and, and you know,
 thought it would cause animosity between them and their neighbors. So I will be voting in support of this.
 And I just, I think it's unrealistic that the assumption is that RO is going to save everything and it's going to be just small, tiny office buildings like the existing real estate office. That's just a really unusual situation with that office building there. It's not as big as it could be. It could cover more area. It could have been built differently, but it was built at a certain time, and I think it's
 the guy owned the property and he built what he wanted. I don't think that's possible on this lot. This is going to be just a tiny little office building and it will all just be really quiet and they'll roll up the streets at 6 o'clock. I don't, I think this is, you know, this is a much greater property than that. And for some of the comments about Joyce, Joyce Avenue or Joyce Boulevard.
 It's have you ever tried to get in those offices there? There's not a stoplight You know It's hard to get in and out of those little little tiny office buildings on Joyce Boulevard that all turn their lights out at 5 O'clock at night so and and that's that's not a great situation either. So I'm gonna vote in favor of this and It's not something I came to with a you know, it wasn't an easy decision for me but I do
 My concern, and I share Mr. Tenet's concern about the houses that border this property and whatever goes in there, that we provide some sort of protection for those houses that are right closest to the property on the other side of the wall. So those are my thoughts on that. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments? Okay. Now we're on the second reading. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 We have a second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? No. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kennett. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property as described in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5733. Yes.
 for approximately 1.79 acres located at southeast corner of crossover road and hearthstone drive from ro residential office and rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nsg neighborhood services general okay okay is it is there any final comments from the council all right now
 I didn't wait. I was going to wait until we got to the third and final reading, but tonight I'm going to defer to our Ward 3 aldermen. I think they probably had the most input from constituents on the matter. I'm going to engage the people there in the area, so I'll be supporting the measure tonight. Okay. I can remember a time on this council, and Chief Staff brought out an excellent point tonight, and he was on the Planning Commission. I do remember 2003.
 And we had what we call, what they called it tonight. What was the term they used tonight? The type of zoning? What's the term, Ann? Spot? You, honey? Form A, or Euclidean? Okay, whatever. We called it transitional zoning at that point in time. We had R zoning, and then we went to R8 and R12 and R24, and then we went to RO, and then we went to C1, C2, and C3.
 And that's about all we had to work with. We didn't have any kind of light zoning. We didn't have any landscaping zoning. We didn't have nothing really to work with. And we determined that we would begin to build and change the way we did things around here. And that's not come easy. Now, I remember being on that council in 2003. We picked that zoning.
 because we felt as though it was transitional zoning and it would be something that would be a buffer. But after hearing the comments tonight and after being swamped with a lot of phone calls today and e-mails, there's more protections now than what we had before. We have come a long way. And no matter how this ends up, I think it's been a great discussion today.
 I know a lot of folks that's been highly tense, and I understand that. But there is a difference in the zonings now, and I think they've been an improvement. It would have been difficult because I felt being on that council at that time, we had told the neighborhood what we were going to do, but that has been 14 years ago.
 and we went through a 2025 plan, 2030 plan, and that's what we deal with today. It would have been difficult for me to make that decision, though I want everybody to know that because I was on that council, and I know how it was back then. But I wanna thank the council for their opinions tonight, particularly the council members from that ward. I wanna thank you for your comments and your courage. So, with that,
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Butcher. No. Long. Yes. Craig. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. No. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes. All right. Moving along. Does anybody want a break? All right. All right, number two. Take one if you need one. Okay.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5753, properly located at the southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive, to vacate a portion of a drainage easement and a portion of a utility easement. I'll entertain. I just want to say I know that it was a difficult decision for the Council, and we appreciate your consideration. Thank you. And thank you for your comments. That was left on the first reading, I believe, so I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Allen? Yes. Justin? Second. OK. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Mr. Chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Hutch? An ordinance approved VAC 15-5753 for property located at the southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive to vacate a portion of a drainage easement and a portion of a utility easement.
 Andrew, do you have this? Yes, sir. I have no additional information. I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have. Okay. Well, you might want to give the two council members that were at the council meeting a little something. Yes, sir. This is the same property we just talked about with the rezoning. Okay.
 In anticipation of the rezoning being approved, they were proposing to vacate some easement located close to Hearthstone. And the intent would be to actually place the buildings close to the street. And there's utility easement along Hearthstone that would prevent a building being located close to the street.
 You can kind of see in Google Earth here where this cursor is. There's an easement here along Hearthstone, and they're proposing to eliminate that easement. Utility companies have recommended in favor of vacating that portion of the easement, and the Planning Commission staff recommended unanimously to approve the vacation. Thank you. Okay. Any questions from the council on this? Good. Good.
 Oh, Sarah, sorry. I just wanted to clarify, since there's been several references to the fact that Alderman Petty and I were not present at the last city council meeting, but we were actually attending the Congress for New Urbanism on behalf of the city where we learned the latest and greatest and best practices in urban land management. So even though we weren't here, we were in fact at work for the citizens of Fayetteville. Okay, very good. Thank you, Sarah. All right, do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. Okay. So, I'm going to ask you to please call the roll. Latere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kingin. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tinnock. Yes. Bench. Yes. In ordinance approved, VAC 15-5753 for property located at the southeast corner of Crossover Road and Hearthstone Drive to vacate a portion of a drainage easement and a portion of a utility easement.
 Okay, is there any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Nutsch. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three.
 Resolutions sell about five acres of land in the Commerce District to Arcana LLC for $75,000 contingent on Arcana LLC receiving a medical marijuana cultivation facility license from the state of Arkansas. Who has that? John.
 Good evening, Mayor of City Council. Cheng Tan from Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I'm very pleased to bring to you an offer from Arcana for five acres of land in the Commerce District. Arcana LLC is a company based in Little Rock. It is owned by Mr. Brian Fault. Mr. Brian Fault is here this evening to answer questions.
 His company is applying for commercial license to cultivate and process the marijuana plants.
 And so they look at a few sites and so that include Fayetteville and we recommended a few possible parcels for him to look at. And as a result of some discussions and communications with the city staff, they were able to come forward with an offer to buy five acres of a 24 acres parcel in the Commerce District.
 Arcana plans to construct a 30,000 square feet cultivation and processing plant using local construction labor. There will also be a 5,000 square feet office complex. And when this facility is fully operational, Arcana is expected to hire about 35 to 40 employees.
 starting wages about $15 per hour for operational workers. And in addition to that, the management positions will fall within the range of 50,000 to 125,000 a year.
 The company plans to hire about five to seven managers to manage this facility. Arcana right now has retained a Fayetteville architecture firm to design the property and a local construction company is expected to help with the construction.
 We recommend that the city leadership approve and support this project by approving the sale to Arcana. What it does is that this project meets the city's and the state's goal of creating new jobs in Fayetteville.
 And it will contribute to a minimum of an annual payroll of about $1.2 million. It's new payroll when it's fully operational, and it's also meet the Fayetteville first strategic plan on entrepreneurship and innovation. So some of the research and development will go into it.
 They're asking price, their offer price is for $75,000 for five acres. It is equivalent to about $15,000 per acre. This is a $5,000 per acre discount to the city's market price of $20,000 an acre. So if you have questions, Mr. Falk and I will be pleased to answer them. Yeah, I'd like to address this. John, go ahead.
 Yes, I'd like to ask the applicant questions. Yes, sir, please. Tell me your name again. Brian Faut. Faut? Faut, F-A-U-G-H-T, Faut. Thank you. Nice to meet you, Brian. Thank you, sir.
 I come from an agrarian background. In fact, I own an interest in a farm, and my wife owns an interest in a brother-in-law's farm. Yes, sir. And our farm is not in a municipality. We find buying land in a rural setting much more economical for growing crops. Why do you choose to grow your crops inside of a municipal government? Because it's going to be in a greenhouse. It's going to be indoor growing instead of outdoor growing.
 In an outdoor setting, you get far less production of a cannabis crop than you would in an indoor growing where you have the use of commercial lighting. But can you not build a greenhouse in a rural setting? You have to build it in a municipal government? You could build one, but with this particular, this is a very polarizing product, a very polarizing subject.
 So I'm very sensitive to the investment that this takes. And inside the city of Fayetteville, it has great support. As you're probably aware, the measure passed 53-47 statewide, but in Fayetteville it passed 65-35. So inside the city of Fayetteville, it's far less likely that anywhere down the road I'm going to encounter public –
 against the product. So being in the city will be easier for my labor pool because of the horticulture program here at UA. There's a vast pool of very qualified candidates to draw from, and it'll be closer for them to come to work. Really, the whole plan will work better inside the city limits.
 Tell me about the end use of your product. You plan to ship it worldwide, nationwide, statewide? Statewide. The amendment allows us to supply the 32 approved dispensaries in the state of Arkansas. And what would be your main mode of transportation for those shipments? Well security is a very detailed part of the whole program.
 So we have already contacted, I have already contacted several different security companies that specialize. You know, a lot of people aren't aware, but this is a very mature industry in many areas of the country. So it's legal in 28 states, has been legal for 20 years in some states. So I've already contacted security companies that specialize in just that, in transporting the product and then the proceeds from the sale of the product back to my facility.
 Do you have a background in medicine or agriculture? I do not, sir. What's your background? Business. Business? I've been a very successful businessman for 30 years. And, again, the industry is very mature. I don't have to know how to grow cannabis. I have to know how to find the people that do know how to grow it.
 and I've already hired an application company, a cultivation company, a processing company, and I actually hired someone today. I did three interviews from people that have tracked me down from some of this publicity that have tracked me down about coming to work for my facility, so found my maintenance supervisor today. Congratulations. Thank you very much. When you say cannabis, you mean marijuana? Yes, sir. Are those two names synonymous? Yes, sir, they are. Okay.
 I had a conversation with a lady who works for the Arkansas Department of Human Services. I told her what I'd be voting on tonight. I don't think she's in the crowd tonight, so I'll just have to say what she said hearsay. I don't know how you all feel about marijuana, but this lady said working for the state for she's 62 years old, 61 years old, so she's been working there for about 35 years.
 She's seen cannabis ruin a lot of lives, literally. I can't imagine, even for a medicinal use, I mean, what have people done for the relieving of pain or the relieving of Parkinson's disease for the last 50 or 60 years? Why do we need to turn to cannabis now? I can't answer that question. Can you?
 You know what, sir? Are you finished? No, I might have some more questions. I don't want to interrupt you. Go ahead. Sir, really, that's not for me to decide. The people of the state of Arkansas have voted for this product, and I'm just here to bring an economic opportunity to the city of Fayetteville. It's not if medical cannabis is going to be legal. It's here. The city of Fayetteville voted 65 to 35. It's going to be in your community.
 I'm just offering the council and the city the chance to see that, to have visibility into that process from seed to sale. And take advantage of up to 50 really good jobs. In every state that this is legal, it is highly successful industry. And personally, sir, I do have a friend, I know why it's legal.
 If you'll watch, if you'll Google, and I hate to say this, if you'll Google Brian fought marijuana, you'll pull up, I did an interview with THV 11 last Thursday, it aired this past Thursday, week ago Thursday I did the interview, and they interview a cancer patient who happens to be a really good friend of mine. And if you'll listen to my friend and listen to what he says, cannabis of the 13 medications that he takes every single day, cannabis is the only medication
 that gives him any normalcy, that gives him any relief from his symptoms. Yes, sir. Mayor, I do want to interject that this offer is contingent on the state issuing a cultivation license. We obviously can't have an operation unless it is licensed by the state. So I do want to be clear that this is a contingent offer of purchase based on successful application of a license.
 Sarah. Well, I wanted to say that I'm very excited to do that you've chosen Fayetteville to launch this great new business venture in our state. I look forward to 50 new jobs in my ward, especially good paying jobs, living wage jobs. Personally, my stepfather's stage four internal melanoma was cured by cannabis.
 So, and he lives in Washington state where that is legal medicine. In fact, just at our CNU conference, we, in our principles of urban retail workshop, we walked around and we looked at the front of dispensaries to gauge how they can be
 good, healthy, productive members of a community and create jobs and not be disruptive or bad for the city. So I think we see a lot of great economic potential with this product. And with that, I move that we approve the resolution. Thank you. Second. Okay, well, hang on everybody. We need to take some public comment. What public comment do we have on this? Thank you, friend, by the way, thank you.
 Yes, please. I came from Denver, Colorado, which everyone knows has legalized pot completely. I have seen a city that started out when I was a child to be like Fayetteville. Clean, everybody friendly, you could leave your doors unlocked, you could walk around at night without being in danger with pot, starting out with it being just medical marijuana.
 Things started to go downhill. We started to see elements come in that were not good for the city. They were drug addicts, and that's all they were there for. The unfortunate reality about medical marijuana is that you can get a prescription from a doctor online. You do not need any actual medical data to prove that you have a condition that medical marijuana would be good for.
 You do not have to prove it, you just have to find a doctor willing to sign the paper for it. Whether it's a chronic pain, whether it's cancer, or any of the other conditions that have been approved by the state. It's a slippery slope and the unfortunate reality is that most of these people are drug addicts. I came from a home that my grandmother had cancer.
 It started out as being lung cancer and it spread through her entire body. It killed her by killing her inner brain. She suffered horribly. But the reality is that she was able to get a pill that had the chemical compound from marijuana that actually has a medicinal effect on cancer. It does not require the entire plant, it only requires the chemical compound.
 That does not require THC, which is what gets people high. They are entirely separate compounds, and they can be separated from the plants. It's not necessary to actually have cannabis. Then the reality of Colorado getting free Miracle-Wanna, it just went downhill. Now anyone can get marijuana. What happened was is that because it is illegal at the federal level, which I agree it should be, is that it's a cash business.
 They cannot have bank accounts, which means they cannot deal on a real legal basis with anyone, and that includes cities. So yes, they generate vast amounts of money. I'm talking a store alone can generate more than $100,000 per day. That's a lot of money, and that's a small number for a small shop.
 in Denver, it is proven that that is how much they can possibly make. The problem with it being a cash business is that you cannot actually keep track of those records. You do not know if that money is going into the tax coffers. You just don't know because it is a cash business. You will not get the revenue you think you're going to get because they are dealing in the back room. This is a drug business. It is basically our cartel.
 It just doesn't look like one, because it's something that people have been proposing as being for medicinal purposes. It's not. The chemical compound can be separated from the cannabis. So cancer patients do have munchies, and I do understand that. And that was a very serious problem for my grandmother. But it is solvable by other means, not necessarily by cannabis. And we did find those means for her, and she was able to maintain weight.
 For the pain-killing effects, there are other products and other elementary things that you can do without using cannabis. So I am glad that you were able to, what you think was cure, but cannabis does not cure. It helps you with the symptoms that allows your own body to heal itself. It only deals with symptoms. It is not a cure. That is a falsehood that is scientifically proven. I come from a scientific background, and I may work retail, but I have degrees in science. Please keep your comments to me, ma'am.
 So it is unfortunate that you believe that, but it is not true. It is not a curative thing. And the other problem with it and what most people seem to believe, and it's just not scientifically proven, is that it supposedly entirely leads your system. And that is completely false. It does stay in your system. Everything you put in your body leaves something behind.
 And all you have to do is go to scientific conventions where they have slides of people's lungs, and you can see the layers of debris that they have built up in their lungs from whatever it is they have been inhaling. Which is why people have mesothelioma, which is a cancer caused by asbestos and various other lung irritants. Marijuana does the same thing. It goes into your lungs and it stays there. Even people do things like inject it, which people do inject marijuana.
 They crystallize it down just the way they do meth, the way they do cocaine, where they do all of those drugs. And even if you pump it into your veins, it will stay there because that is how neurons work. They send little messages with chemicals, and those chemicals go through each neuron, but they leave things behind. That's what's called memory. And our memories do that, and it gets stored in the brain. It gets stored in the body. That's why people have acid trips 30 years after taking acid is because it's still there.
 Marijuana is not any different from any other chemical we ingest. Calcium stays in your body, it's in all of our bones. Iron stays there, it's in our blood. Everything you put in your body leaves a trace, and so does marijuana. It is not something you can completely rid yourself of. And the problem with people being able to get a prescription from any random doctor that they can find online is that they can get these drugs for themselves. And then they can teach other people how to take these drugs.
 I had to watch as a 16-year-old as my uncle slit his wrists because my other uncle thought it would be a great idea for a manic-depressive, bipolar person to smoke pot to calm down. What people have in their minds, we have no idea. And you put a drug like this into their system, you do not know what's going to happen.
 My uncle decided, oh, let me teach everybody how to take pot. Let me teach them how to do this and that and the other. He killed himself with it. He killed himself using drugs. He nearly killed my other uncle doing it. And that's just not right. These people are teaching children and other adults how to use this product, and it's causing people to have their lives destroyed.
 I've seen it over the years in Colorado where perfectly healthy people, perfectly normal, happy people, people that greet you, say hi to you in the park, are now afraid of you and then cringe when you say hi because they think you're going to stab them. I've had someone threaten to kill my dog when I walked past them because they were so high. It's ridiculous.
 Every scumbag from every major city will show up in Fayetteville because of the pot. I don't think that it's a great idea to take something away from people who really need pain relief, but at the same time we do have to look at the vast majority of people. And the people who are surviving cancer and who are living without cancer are our priorities.
 I'm sorry, but the people who have died from cancer, they are no longer with us. We have to think about the living. And the living are our children. The children of this city will be affected by anybody who comes into this city for the pot. And they will come. The greatest thing for Denver has been, oh, our housing prices have gone up. It's because there's so many people trying to get in this city for marijuana, and marijuana alone, that they have driven up the house prices to unrealistic levels.
 which is great for real estate, which is great for businesses, because all these people come in and spend a lot of money. But the problem is they also create crime. And the fact of this is you can find it on the Denver Police website, how much crime has gone up in the last few years alone. In the last five years, it has escalated to more than 200%.
 This is a town I used to be able to walk in in the dark alone at night. Now I can't even go outside during the day without hearing gunshots. That is why I moved here, is for this place, these people. Because everybody here seems to have wonderful morals and values, and value family and community and mother nature.
 And that is something I believe in. I don't think we should ruin our community by allowing this facility here. Because above and beyond the cash business and the fact that they get robbed just about every day in Denver, and that they can't put their money in a bank, which means you can't track the money that's being used, and oh, by the way, they're getting mugged when they're leaving their business at night, which is why he needs to invest in security systems, is because they get robbed regularly.
 How safe is a city where someone who's leaving their business for the day gets robbed because they have to carry cash because it's illegal for them to bank? How great is that for a city? How great is that for a community? How great is that for the children who are playing in the parks, who are riding their bicycles along the trails, a lot of them unattended because this place is so safe that people still leave their doors unlocked? I haven't seen that in Denver in more than 20 years. No one keeps their doors unlocked.
 It's too dangerous. You cannot go out at night in the city anymore because of the pot. It has brought in crazies, it has brought in criminals, it has brought in people who only want to smoke pot and live off the welfare system. They want to use the Medicaid programs and all the lovely free services. And how much I have seen this Northwest Arkansas area give to charity.
 I don't want them using the people of Northwest Arkansas. I do not want them using these generous hearts to fund their own downfalls. Because that's what it is. It is a horrible thing to do to yourself, and it is a horrible thing to pass on to your neighbors, your friends, and your children. I work in a toy store, and the Christmas before I came out here, I watched a family come in, and they seemed all fine and normal. Three kids, two parents, great.
 And then I smelled the pot. They left a cloud everywhere they went in the store. And we had people complaining because they were like, what's that smell? And it's like, oh, that would be the family that smokes together. Oh, is that what the new line is? Smokes together, stay together? I thought it was something different than that. I thought it was morals and values in the family that has fun together, that lives together, that loves each other, stays together. It destroys families.
 And then if you want to think about the green spaces here, there's a larger problem. In Colorado, it is so dry and so cold in the winter that marijuana plants cannot survive outside. And although this facility says they're going to have these plants indoors, that is not how these things work. Look at how many hickory plants are out there, how many different plants you see here, there, and everywhere that are not native to this great state. They're not native because all it takes is one seed.
 One seed to get out of that facility and plant and grow and spread. And in this state with as much water as there is and how many beautiful sunny days and how great the weather is and how long the growing season is, it would take off like wildflower. Oh wait a minute, weed. That's right. It's a weed. And it's a weed you should use herbicide on and kill. Because it does kill people and it kills their lives and it damages everybody.
 And you may laugh, and you may think it's funny, but it's not. I have seen the downfall of a city with 4 million people that had doubled in size in five years because of marijuana. Yes, they generate vast amounts of income. They really do. But you can't count on that money because they can't bank it, which means you can't keep track of it. So not only are you not keeping track of the drug cartel's money, but you're not keeping track of who's getting it because anybody can get a license for it.
 You can't keep track of that either. How are you going to monitor 50 million people in and around the state or coming into the state getting these licenses? You can't. You can't keep track of them. And this is a dangerous substance to have. Anyone with the slightest mental illness could be affected in any way possible. You do not know how it will affect somebody. One person gets the munchies, another person starts having their skin crawl. You do not know how this is going to affect them.
 And it might be great for some people who are really ill, but there are alternative methods for them. And I would really hate to see the city I have just moved to in the last year go downhill like the place I left into a crime-ridden, nasty, filthy place that is not safe for our children. And they are our most important asset.
 Don't do this. It is wrong. It is wrong for Arkansas, it is wrong for Fayetteville, and it's wrong for everybody because it is a controlled substance and we should leave it that way. It's safer. That way we can go out at night, we can have nice clean streets, you don't have crazies walking around at 2 o'clock in the morning screaming at the top of their lungs. Oh, and by the way, in the background, there's gunshots. People have found their car seats, their babies' car seats shot through with bullets. I've had to replace them for them.
 It's ridiculous. Don't move it into the city. Don't turn this place into another Colorado. They might be making some money, but it's not turning out how they thought it would. Just look at the crime statistics on the Denver Police website. It's astronomical, absolutely astronomical, and people are getting run over each and every day from it. Between that and then zoning things, which I don't approve of either, it's just...
 It's not what this city is standing for. This city is supposed to be a lovely, beautiful town, not a major, massive city. I left a major, massive city to live in a smaller town with morals and values, clean streets, beautiful sidewalks, and now a lovely greenway system that you can go from one place to another.
 Everything is within close distance here because there are businesses here. It is growing, but we want it to grow the right way, not the pot way. Green is not pot. Green is trees and rivers and fish, and we want to keep it that way. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Please, Tom, come up. This will be even better. I think we might be getting both sides on this one. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, City Council. Good evening, Tom.
 My name is Tom Brown and I first moved here in 1987. I'm having just a little bit of trouble hearing you. Could you pull the mic just a little bit closer? Is that it? Yeah, that's good. Okay. My name is Tom Brown. I first moved here in 1987. I've lived here in Fayetteville since 1999 and I own my own home over on Main Street since 2009. In 1968, in October,
 I was in Oshkosh, Wisconsin with my girlfriend. I was a good Catholic kid. I was finished up with my sophomore year, planning to enter Oklahoma University to be a drama student. Didn't make enough money over the summer working for the Green Giant. Ended up in Oshkosh. Met a wonderful woman, artist, Jean Hogard. Her dad built Green Bay Packer Stadium.
 And so I was sitting there in her living room with her friends, and somebody started passing a joint. And I went, oh, my God, this is drugs. This is drugs. You are about to be subjected to peer pressure. You are about to have a moral issue in your life. But I was only 20, and there was more of them than there was me, and nobody else was objecting. So I went ahead and tried it. Well...
 We were smoking it, and when you smoke it, it affects you fairly quickly. And here I am thinking about being a Catholic and using a drug and being subjected to peer pressure and how dangerous this was. And the first thought that came into my head was, this is the communion sacrament that I always looked for in the Catholic Church and never found.
 And then the second thought that came into my head was, wow, that proves that this stuff is wacky. Because how could I possibly be thinking about church and be thinking at the time that I'm using drugs? How could that possibly be? In 1996, I was in Springfield, Missouri at the federal prison serving my prison sentence for growing marijuana and giving it away to sick people. And a friend sent me a book called Green Gold, Marijuana and Myth, Magic, and Religion.
 And about halfway through the book, I'm reading about the Cath-ther Church and how the Pope made marijuana illegal in 1188, and then he sent his troops, those nice Swiss Guard guys, into the south of France to wipe out the Cath-ther Church, which was founded by Mary of Magdalene and her sister Martha. And some say their servant Sarah, and some say Martha.
 Sarah being the matriarch of the Meringian line of kings in France, that she and Mary Magdalene share the blood of Jesus. So the divine right of kings comes from this idea that the blood that flows in the French kings actually came from Jesus through Sarah, through Mary of Magdalene. And all of a sudden it made sense.
 why the first thought in my head when I first smoked marijuana was that, my God, this is a communion sacrament. Within the last six months, some of the science that's been done on this has confirmed, you ladies will know about this, that marijuana causes a release of oxytocin. Oxytocin is what turns mom
 into a raging love-aholic of her baby. Oxytocin enhances our emotional empathy with other people. I didn't make oxytocin. God did. I didn't make the marijuana plant. God did. And I know there's been a lot of confusion and a misunderstanding about this over the years, but we do have the science. And a previous person spoke that we should look at the science. And we should.
 But actually, didn't we already do that and didn't we already decide what we're going to do about this? Now the question comes, how shall we manage it? When I first read the article in the paper about the city selling land to a marijuana grower, part of it was, wow, what a great idea. The other part was, well, how did that happen? I mean, how did...
 the city suddenly turned into somebody that wanted to encourage growing marijuana. This is wonderful, but how did that happen? So I do have some questions about how that happened. But if, in fact, the city is going to provide land in the industrial park for the growing and packaging of marijuana under state license, what safer place could there be? How more convenient...
 for regulation by police or health authorities, than to have it right here in the city limits, on city property or city industrial zone, purchased from the city. I mean, my mind started going off on all of the different addendums to contracts that other cities have made to ensure that the marijuana that's grown in their city
 doesn't have any pesticides, doesn't have any herbicides, doesn't have any other kinds of chemical contaminants. In fact, they've lost tens of millions of dollars of marijuana in Las Vegas, Nevada, and in Colorado because samples were tested and found to be contaminated and they had to throw out five million dollars worth of marijuana. And they did. They threw it out. They composted it. They put it back on the ground. It didn't go into anybody's lungs. So,
 I have to say, since I've been working on this since 1969, that I am filled with joy that this city council is considering this question. And based on the fact that I've been using marijuana since 1968, I gotta tell you, the science has backed up what I personally experienced over the years. Marijuana has made me a better man. The only crime I've got is growing marijuana to give away to sick people right here.
 And now that's legal, thank God. So I won't have to go to jail for it if I ever do it again. Praise God. I hope you'll support this. I hope you'll put some addendums into whatever contract you're gonna have to ensure good, healthy, organically produced herb for medicine in this state. And if that's the going price for land inside of Fayetteville, I'd like to have some of that myself. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. All right, who else would like to address us on this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to approve. What final comments do we have? Sure. And this has zero to do with cannabis, marijuana, or any other whatever's being grown. It doesn't matter to me about that. My question is about the actual...
 I guess it would be the contract itself or the agreement itself. So I heard the chief of staff say that this was contingent on the state passing or not passing. The state's already passed it. Approving the license for this location. That's right? Yes. Yes. Do we know when that's going to be? I'm sorry? Do we know when that will be, when the state is handing that decision down? Has that been announced or? No.
 Do one of you want to address the... Applications start being submitted on July 1st. It's a 90-day submittal period at the end of September. They will start reviewing the cultivation applications first because obviously the dispensaries can't go into...
 business until they have something to sell. So cultivation, we think that would be about a 30 day period. So sometimes before Thanksgiving, I think they will award the licenses. And Justin, I will say that in the negotiation of this offer that was given to us when brought to the mayor was we countered with not wanting to leave an open ended for whenever an application because we're
 An application could be done in the initial time period. There could be an expansion from five to eight cultivation facilities, and we didn't want to leave it open-ended. So this contract is contingent only through 12-31 of this year. So the application process starts in July.
 There was uncertainty to how long that could take, but we didn't want to leave it open ended because we, you will see at the next meeting, we have another piece of land coming forward, not for this type of business, but for a plastics manufacturing business that is a subdivided portion of this property.
 What we didn't want to do because it requires access as we sell pieces to continue to have the remaining property accessible, to have something that held up our ability to do the land because we were waiting on a contingent situation. Okay. So this particular piece, there's multiple pieces.
 lot in this piece of land. This is the land that the council originally approved for purchase for PVG, the full 24 acres. And when that was resold back to the city, we received the first offer for five acres. We got a second offer for three acres. And then Brian asked the city to consider a first right of refusal on the land that's immediately approved.
 East. Yes. East of the property in case someone else came along to purchase that. So we're basically subdividing that 24 acres of property into inquiries that come forward. And this particular group wants this property, they can't really officially close on it until after they get their license. That's correct. Correct.
 In a real estate market, what happens if someone comes forward August 1st out of the blue and wants this land, and they have the money to pay for the land, or they don't have to wait until they get a license for whatever they're building or selling? Are we going to hold this land? Yes. If this contract guarantees them the right to execute and go ahead and do the closing once they have the license,
 If they haven't done it by the 31st of December, it's kind of fish or cut bait. That's the end. But up to that point in time, they have the right to do it, and we can't allow some other company to come in underneath them. I mean, again, taking the idea of what this is out of it, it does bother me a little bit. This is not my property. This is the taxpayer's property, and we're telling them we're going to sell it below market value, and we're going to hold it.
 on the chance that the person who wants it will be able to buy it at the end of the year. I would like to see something in here that says if someone comes forward and says, I want this land right now and I'll pay you more money for it, it bothers me a little bit that we don't have a way to go to this group and say, you have X amount of days in order to buy it or not.
 I'm guessing you have probably spent money on the licensing fees and the things moving forward. Yes, sir with the state Yes, so you've already invested a lot of money that you may or may not get back from what I understand, right? Yes, sir. Justin could I interrupt you on one thing though on this particular? item the
 City's land sale ordinance requires us to advertise when we're going to sell a piece of property. So if there is a competing offer, like was the situation with Come and Go, that someone has the opportunity to provide that competitive offer at this time. Just like we had Casey's come forward when we had Come and Go bring its item to the city. So anyone who was interested in this particular five acres of property,
 has had that opportunity to bring a counter offer for an immediate cash offer, either at a higher price or for immediacy of development. And we have received none to date. And that was a part of our actual advertising and posting. Anytime we sell land, we're doing it right now on the next track of land because someone could do that.
 All these people want the offer themselves, but they actually have to get through a period where anyone can provide a competitive offer. So your item about someone, that doesn't mean someone might not come later, but we did advertise the property for anyone interested in it today that might have a competitive offer for you to consider at the same time you're considering this particular transaction. Okay. And if I might add, hasn't the land been available for quite some time? Three and a half.
 Yes, and the council is aware this is a piece of property that's been undeveloped for over 25 years until we had PVG actually acquire it and then return it. And don't get me wrong, I'm not against them doing what they want to do on it. I just wanted you to know that we did not consider other people. Other people had the opportunity to consider it off the property. No, and I don't think we picked them over somebody else. I don't think there was a lot of...
 attention to this land. So I'm just making sure that I get on record that there is a concern. I think I'll still...
 be in support of this, but I am a little bit concerned about holding anything. If the house next to me doesn't sell for a year, nobody even looks at it, and then somebody walks up and says, I want it, but I don't want to pay market price for it, and I want you to hold it until December, until my check cashes or until I get my money, most people would tell you, well...
 If somebody comes forward between now and then, you'll have a chance to buy it or not. It's just difficult for me in a market like today to hold it. But I'm not saying I won't support it. I just wanted to get that out there that there is some concern there about why we would make a deal for holding something that long. Not against what it is, and I'm glad, and I don't want to go anywhere else necessarily, but that is a concern of mine. That's all I'm saying. Okay. John? Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 The idea behind an industrial park is you're going to have big industrial concerns, big factories that require specialized transportation like a rail spur coming in or a waterway or a canal for barge traffic. Also, large factories have different needs for power, electrical, extra large, natural gas pipelines, bringing in for whatever the manufacturing process is.
 The beauty of the industrial park is you can spread the fixed cost of that additional infrastructure over a variety of businesses instead of just one business. That's why I was questioning, do we really want to grow a greenhouse in our industrial park when we could better utilize that for cost-sharing purposes with larger factories? My vision for Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas, Mr. Mayor,
 is a technology super center. There's no reason why we shouldn't be the Silicon Valley of Central America, of the central part of America. Silicon Valley, I have to share this story with you. Jim Fisher was raised in Gentry, Arkansas, Northwest Arkansas, worked his way through the University of Arkansas in chemical engineering, took a job in the oil fields of Oklahoma when he graduated, worked for a year, decided he wanted a graduate degree, applied to MIT, got accepted,
 It was about a year-long program, NBA program. I knew his son. About six months before his program ended, he's interviewing for jobs. He gets a job offer. This was back in the 60s, I guess, from a little upstart company down in Dallas. His advisors told him, don't take it. These companies come and go. In six months, you'll be looking for another job. He went against their advice and took the job. The company? Texas Instruments. Jim developed the distillation process. Everyone in the industry knew that silicon was the way to go.
 But nobody could get the distillation process right because apparently it requires one part per billion purity. There's no reason why we shouldn't be the Silicon Valley of America again. It started here. If there were no Jim Fisher in Gentry, Arkansas, there'd be no Silicon Valley today in the Bay Area. It started here. And I use that story to illustrate to all young businessmen from small acorns, large oaks grow.
 Jim got to Dallas, there were like three employees of Texas Instruments at that point. He retired as number three man at the company. It started here in Northwest Arkansas. It's the innovation, it's the entrepreneurship. That's my vision for Fayetteville. That's my vision for Northwest Arkansas. I think that would be the vision of every council member up here in the manor. Sure, sure. So I'm questioning, do we really want to use our five acres to grow cannabis? I mean, we don't need any specialized transportation other than security.
 I mean, you could do the same thing on five acres on the edge of town, not in our industrial park. The idea of the industrial park is spread the fixed cost of this extra infrastructure across several businesses instead of just making one bear the whole cost. That's why I'll be voting against it. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Well, thank you, gentlemen. Anyone else like to, any final comments from anyone? Well, when I made the decision to bring this forward, I had the staff look into it. First and foremost, I knew that the people of the state of Arkansas had passed this.
 It became legal. I wanted it to be on the ground floor, so to speak. And I felt that when I looked at the vote in this city for medical marijuana, it was 65.6% of the citizens voted in favor of it. So also we have the federal first economic development plan, which talks about specialized technologies, this fits in that category.
 and the sale of this. And, you know, something, folks, we've had that land for 25 years. It's time we started doing something with it. I came into this office with the same acreage we got BBG, and then they moved on, and now I got the land back again. Now I may, you know, you know me. I mean, after a while I said, okay, we're going to make a decision here. We're going to move on something. Now I want to see if the technology works.
 Capital world? Absolutely. But you know, I think there's room for everything. I think there's all kinds of businesses that could come in here, and I think we should be, we should, um, we should open it up, be, you know, be diverse. Federal First talks about it. It's not something that's illegal in this state. They have a commission, a medical marijuana commission that's laying out the ground rules for this right now. There's going to be so many feet from schools and churches,
 We are able to control how it's produced. I think Tom brought up a good point. I've had the staff look in it. The Chamber of Commerce has looked in it, at it. We checked with the economic vitality director, and it produces good-paying jobs, something we need in this town. So for all those reasons, I said, I have an offer. I'm going to take the offer to the council, and the council can decide what they want to do.
 I believe that we should go ahead and do the business because we will be one of the first in the state. And I think there is a good there's going to be some good economic value for this business in this city. So with that, I guess we're ready to vote. All right. So would you please call the roll? No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. All righty. Thank you all. Now let's, we're ready for new business. Whoa. Do you want a break now or would you like to continue on? It's not even 10 o'clock, Mayor. Do you want a break? You want a short break or not? Five minutes. All right. Let's get, let's get. Let's go. Let's go about 10 minutes. I'm ready for a break. Shall we get, shall we get going? Yes, sir. All righty then. We'll just add that. Yeah, let's do it. All righty then. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right.
 Okay, let's get on into new business. All right. Number one. I've got a feeling things are going to move a little quicker now. All right.
 An ordinance to waive the Commerce Form of Competitive Bidding and approve a cost share agreement with South Block Partners LLC for the installation of a sewer main along a portion of South Block Avenue between West 4th Street and West 5th Street with the estimated amount to be paid by the city if it will not to exceed $16,375 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,347. Kip.
 Whereas South Block Partners LLC will be developing property located at the northeast corner of West 5th Street and South Block Avenue, and has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South Block Avenue between West 5th Street and West 4th Street,
 a distance of approximately 110 feet. And whereas the City of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share, as it will extend sewer service to an area in the core of the city that has never been served before and provide for ample future capacity, which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by this sewer main.
 And whereas section 51.113 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system.
 And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with South Block Partners, LLC, for the installation of an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of South Block Avenue between West...
 4th Street and West 5th Street with an estimated amount to be paid by the city not to exceed $16,735 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $3,347.
 Take it away, Tim. Okay. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think Kit summed it up perfectly. South Block Partners LLC has requested that the city share in the cost of installing this 8-inch sewer main 110 feet long between West 4th and 5th Streets on Block Avenue. They're doing this so they can develop a property located at the corner of West 5th and South Block. They're going to do a lot split and put in three homes.
 The estimated total cost of the project is $35,270 and the City's portion of this cost is approximately 50% of the project, $16,735. And a contingency of $3,347 for a total estimated cost of $20,082. Constructing this segment of the age line will allow development for these properties and also provide for ample future capacity.
 Waving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost because the developer's contractor will be on site installing the developer service line. The Water and Sewer and Solid Waste Committee heard this cost share item at the April 11, 2017 meeting and voted 4-0 to afford this item to the City Council with their recommendation for approval. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this, Council? Mark.
 I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. We did take this. Yeah, I was going to ask you. Okay. Water sewer. And this is in the area of town where we're especially interested in the infrastructure since it's aging, and we want to expand it into areas where it doesn't exist. So it's a good deal. Okay. John. I'll second that motion, Mayor. Okay. All right. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Put the mover in second or first. Oh, sorry. Yeah, Mark and John. Yeah, that looked pretty. Okay. Yes, please call the roll. Latour. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with South Block Partners LLC for the installation of a sewer main along a portion of South Block Avenue between West 4th Street and West 5th Street, with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $16,375 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,347. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Either one of you?
 We've run them off, Mary. All right. Mark. This is an area that we know is a problem, and so it's a parking lot that's been washed away, basically. The water is going underneath the surface of the parking lot, so it's a continual problem. We've had to deal with it over and over. So when we had the opportunity for a water leak,
 resolving this situation, it seemed necessary in this point that we bring it forward. It is not inexpensive, but it's certainly going to save in the long run, so I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Third. Oh, third. Yep. How did we go to the third? We're still in the head. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm ahead already.
 I'm really anxious to get out of here. You're the only one ahead out here. Yeah, on the other matter, third and final reading, and then remember what I said when we go to the next. All right.
 This is an area of town in down in Ward 1 where we're seeing a lot of great appropriate infill of different housing types so I just want to note that we're including extra capacity to accommodate future development in this so we are thinking ahead here as we improve the infrastructure in this neighborhood so I want to second the motion. Okay we have a motion and second go to the third and final reading. Sandra would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. Fetty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Thatch? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with South Block Partners LLC for the installation of a sewer main along a portion of South Block Avenue between West 4th Street and West 5th Street with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayval not to exceed $16,375.
 And to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,347. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? LeGere. Yes. Long. Yes. Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kingen. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bennett. Yes.
 Okay, number two. In order to sway the requirements for competitive bidding and approve cost share agreement with Southern Star Enterprises LLC for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Millsap Road with the City of Federal's share of the cost not to exceed $49,070.40 and to approve project contingency in the amount of $5,000.00.
 Whereas Southern Star Enterprises, LLC, received off-site stormwater runoff from adjacent developments that appears to be damaging its parking lot, its parking area located at 509 North Millsap Road, and desires to install underground drainage collection system to connect the new improvements to the city's downstream collection system.
 And whereas Southern Star Enterprises LLC has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing drainage improvements along East Millsap Road as part of Southern Star's commitment to improve its parking area.
 And whereas Section 170.05 of the Fable Unified Development Code allows for cost sharing and states, quote, if it is determined that the off-site drainage improvements are required and that such specific off-site drainage improvements are consistent with the city's current and established priorities, then cost sharing will be in accordance with the required off-site improvements.
 And whereas city engineers explored various options to alleviate the drainage problems in this area and have determined that the proposed off-site drainage improvements in the city's right-of-way are required and further that these improvements are consistent with the city's priorities, and whereas the city's Transportation Division is unable to work on this project,
 or work this project into its 2017 program year, and waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be onsite installing the privately owned drainage improvements. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with the Southern Star Enterprises LLC for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Millsap Road with the City of Fayetteville providing the 30-inch
 corrugated plastic pipe necessary for the project at a cost of $7,200 and paying the portion of the construction costs for the improvements within the city's right-of-way in amount not to exceed $41,870.40 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. Okay, Chris.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Kit said most of what I was going to say, but I will add this is a parking lot along Millsap that has had some damage due to a fairly large amount of drainage that runs through the parking lot.
 The property owner approached us to look at ways to alleviate that. Of course, staff told him it's private property, and he was responsible for those fixes. But the problem was that the fix that was needed was not something that could be done unless the city came in and put in the storm drain system in Millsap, put in our infrastructure to accept that.
 water coming into a pipe. So that's the proposal. The city will build the infrastructure along Millsap. So it will be the city storm drain system that will then accept the water from this pipe system to be constructed.
 It's about just a little under $50,000 of city investment. The property owner is actually investing over $100,000 on their property. And so we're recommending approval and answering questions. Okay, Mark? What I said before, whenever I was ahead. And I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Second. Okay. Do we have any public comment on this?
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go the second reading. I gotta have a seconder person. We already have. Is it there, Sandra, you got it? It's there. All right, I just don't have it on my screen. We have a motion and a second to go the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? The Chair. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kingin.
 In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Southern Star Enterprises LLC for the installation of drainage improvements along a portion of East Millsap Road with the City of Fayetteville's share of the cost not to exceed $49,070.40 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. And I'd like to thank our City Engineer for sticking through this meeting. Absolutely. And being here for questions if there are any. All right.
 Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Mark. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Sorry, I got ahead of myself. Dutch. Yes. Yes. Sorry about that. That's all right. Coming from both sides of the table. Thank you. All right. Thank you all.
 And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal confetti bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Southern Star Enterprises LLC for the installation of drainage improvements and along a portion of East Millsap Road with the city of Fayetteville share of the cost not to exceed $49,070.40 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. All right. Mark? Final comments or no? Any final comments from the council? Okay, Sandra. Would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number three. An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5756 for approximately 2.62 acres located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to CS Community Services.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Andrew.
 Yes, sir. This property is on the south side of Mission Boulevard, just kind of across the street from the Walmart neighborhood market. We have the property pulled up here on the aerial photo. It's about two acres. The proposal is to rezone the property to CS Community Services. The applicants indicated potential for future mixed use on the property.
 And staff's recommendation is that this is consistent with our future land use plan designation of the site as a city neighborhood area. We also feel like it's a compatible area for this type of zoning where you have a mix of some commercial, there's a bank just adjacent to the property to the east, and some shopping and mixed residential in the area. With that, we're recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission also recommended unanimously in favor of the request at their meeting.
 And there was one member of the public I believe that spoke and there was not any particular objections He was just asking about connecting from his neighborhood into this site and with that I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have thank you questions we have for Andrew on this Okay, any public comment on this? Okay, come right on up. Hi. I'm Mary McGatrick. I'm
 I'm a resident of Fayetteville, and I don't know if, y'all are probably not familiar with the type of development that we do at ERC, but we really focus on urban, mixed-use, walkable developments, and that's our goal for this property. We're still in the early phases of design, but you're welcome to look us up online. I mean, we really wanna bring a development to this location that people can live, and work, and play all in one place.
 so i'll be happy to answer any questions that you have about the property or okay sounds great what uh yeah looking forward to that what do we have any questions okay thanks for being here and explaining yeah and staying with us i made it through do we have any public comment on this okay see no brain but oh sorry justin well i am going to make a motion but i want to say that earlier um and that other thing that we talked about i mentioned the
 Well, I was kind of hard on the intersection of crossover and mission. So this being where it is and doing what you're going to do is so welcome in that area, I can tell you. And I think that it is compatible and it is needed in that area so that we can get away from the very things that we want to get away from. The parking lot dominated...
 Can't walk to it can't cross streets can't do anything and there's development right across the street. It's being built There's a lot of different things around there So that area is really turning into more things that should have happened in the beginning. So I with that I'll Suspend ask that we suspend the rules and go the second reading Second the motion second to go to the second reading Yes
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingin? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5756 for approximately 2.62 acres located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard.
 From C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Okay, I'll enter. Yes, Justin. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Allen. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? So, Chair.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, it's cried a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5756, for approximately 2.62 acres, located at 2621 East Mission Boulevard from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council? I think this will be a really good project. I'm really looking forward to this. This is good.
 Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Chenna? Yes. Dutch? Yes. Okay, number four.
 An ordinance for zoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5781 for approximately 0.54 acres. Located at 1622 East Mission Boulevard from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Okay.
 Andrew? Sir, this property is on the north side of Mission Boulevard. It's north and east of Root Elementary School. There is a triangular shaped parcel of land that does have a single family home on it. It's about a half acre. Currently zoned residential single family four units per acre. The applicant is proposing to rezone it to NC neighborhood conservation. The intent would be to split the lot into multiple lots and build single family homes.
 Staff recommends in favor of the request. We feel like it is a compatible request to allow for single-family infill in this location. And the Planning Commission, as well, recommended in favor of rezoning the property, finding that it's consistent with the land use plan and goals of the city. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. What questions do we have for Andrew on this? I'll just do a quick one there. Sorry, let me push my button. Okay. Thanks.
 Is there a limitation on size for what these are? I think you mentioned it, but I forgot. The lot size is 4,000 square feet, I believe, 40-foot wide lots. So it's feasible that there will be multiple smaller homes. It could be. I guess we haven't seen them. Mm-hmm. But, okay. That's correct. Yeah. Anyone say something?
 Well, I was just going to introduce myself. I'm Richie Lamb. I'm the applicant, and I'll answer any questions that you have. How many houses are you going to build there? Yeah. As many as possible. All righty. Like that. Do we have – Justin, you're on the – No, I would just finish by saying that that area of town is in need. There's a lot of houses being built, but there's –
 We need all different levels of housing and all different sizes of housing, not just your house on the hill, so to speak, and not just the small cookie cutter ones, but everything in between. So this is a good thing. Thank you very much. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Mr. Mayor, nice. Sorry, John. No problem. Don't leave. Sorry. What kind of house are you going to build?
 Single family. Single family. And is anybody building microhouses in Fayetteville? Do you know? I don't know. I'm not real familiar with a microhouse. I grew up in about 950 square feet. Yeah, that's not a microhouse. That's a mansion. There's plenty. You know, I don't have a proposal. I've got some sketches, but they're nothing formal I think I can build. There's an existing house there that's around 1,000 square feet. And with this zoning...
 I'm going to attempt to fit possibly four homes on the piece of property. And with some good design, I believe we can do that. But we very well may run into some limitations there and be left with, I would think, three at a minimum. So that would be the existing house plus two more or possibly three more. Okay. Sarah. I want to move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Let me get some public comment. Would anyone like to address this?
 Okay, going back to the council. Will the ghost please stand up? The chair has the motion, and John, you have the second? Sure, I'll second that. Well, I just, okay, thank you. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? So, chair. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Batch. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5781, for approximately .54 acres, located at 1622 East Mission Boulevard, from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to NC Neighborhood Conservation. John? Yes, sir, Mayor. Thank you.
 Well, you know, we might as well make a motion. I'll motion to go to the third and final reading. It's been the rules. Let's go. Sarah. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Well, Chair. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in a rezoning petition, RZN 175781, for approximately 0.54 acres, located at 1622 East Mission Boulevard, from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation. Is there any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? LeTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Yes.
 All right. Number five, an ordinance to approve Vacation 17, that's 5751, for the property located at 1541 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. Kip?
 Mr. Mayor, this afternoon my office notified, I hope most of the council members, that we had a slight amendment to this vacation ordinance that I'd like to have made before I actually read it. What has happened is that there was a second condition, an easement shall be provided around a downed guy wire, an anchor on the west side.
 We have gotten information that that now has been taken care of, and so it no longer needs to be a condition of this vacation. We also have the applicant who was here. I guess he's standing outside. But anyway, we handed this out, and I would like you to amend the one that was before you to the one that you now have in your hand. So moved. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second to amend to the ordinance that we have in hand. All right.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenan? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Yes. I shall now read that ordinance.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of unbuilt street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached to exhibit A to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk. And number 3, section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation or damage to existing utilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. This property is on the south side of Martin Luther King Boulevard. It's in between Eastern Avenue and Arbuckle Lane. It's currently zoned CS Community Services.
 The applicant has cleared the site and is preparing to develop the site for a retail center, including a Panera Bread company. There's an existing platted right-of-way that has never been used for a street that goes right through the area where they want to build the building, so they're simply requesting to vacate that right-of-way so they can build their project. And this was discussed at the Planning Commission meeting. There were no issues, and we're recommending in favor of the request. Thank you. Any questions that we have? No.
 Okay. In public comment. Okay. Fidel. I move ways to suspend the rules and call the second reading. Sure. I second that and note that I've not received any negative comment about this from the ward. Okay. Simon, would you please call the vote? Latere. Yes. Long. Yes.
 Yes. March? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Patch? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5751 for property located at 1541 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. Second. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Justin. Second. There is a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5751 for property located at 1541 West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., the vacated portion of a street right of way. Any final comments from the council?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number six. In order to submit chapter 178 outdoor vendors in the Unified Development Code to end the permanent lottery from utilizing public parking areas to allow administrative approval of permits for mobile vendor courts and sidewalk cafes to allow motorists to use public parking
 administratively renew permits annually and to make technical revisions. Whereas the city has not experienced any problems since allowing mobile vendors to park in parallel spaces or public parking lots, and ending the permit lottery will remove an unnecessary requirement for those businesses,
 And whereas allowing staff to administratively approve mobile vendor courts, sidewalk cafes, and annual mobile vendor permits will streamline the process for applicants. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 17801 by replacing, quote, retail with commercial, unquote,
 Section 2, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville Archery are hereby amend Section 17802B by repealing the introductory paragraph and enacting a new introductory paragraph as follows. Quote, the City Planning Division may issue a permit allowing a sidewalk cafe on part of a specified sidewalk after the applicant has notified adjoining property owners. The City Planning Division shall ensure that no permit is granted unless, unquote.
 Section 3. At the City Council, the City of Favillard-Oxford, I hereby amend Section 17803B by repeating the introductory paragraph and enacting a new introductory paragraph as follows. Quote, The City Planning Division may issue a permit for a sidewalk vendor to use a specified sidewalk or plaza location for specified hours to sell specified goods for up to one year period. The City Planning Division shall ensure that no permit is granted unless, unquote,
 Section 4, I know I'm leaving you hanging, but Section 4, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 17803Ci and 17803I by replacing, quote, zoning and development administrator with, quote, city planning division. And Section 17803F1 by replacing planning commission with city planning division. Section 5.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 178.04, outdoor mobile vendors located on private property, by striking, quote, located on private property from the title, and by striking on private property from Section 178.04A, purpose.
 Section 6, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 17804B through 17804E and adopts a new Section 17404B through 17804E as shown on Exhibit A, attached here to and made a part hereof. Section 7.
 that the city council the city of fair larks are hereby repeal section 178.05 food truck and food trailer limited time permits okay matthew you got this or andrew you got this who's got this um well i'll just say you know the bulk of this was um moving from a planning commission approval process to a planning division approval process
 There were some other material changes, but I won't go through those since you've had a chance to read this, we can certainly talk about it. I think when we looked at the history, there were 19 permits that went to the Planning Commission and every one of them had ultimately been approved. And so on that basis, we thought that removing some of the barriers to getting started as a food truck or food trailer might be the right thing to do. Okay. Andrew, you want to add anything to that?
 Just in general, we're trying to loosen up the rules a little bit for mobile vending as alderman petty mentioned You know the to encourage these types of businesses to create a more lively streetscape encourages Tax base and a lot of the goals that we have so that's it I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Do I have any public comment? Okay. All right We have a motion John. I'm amazed. We're deregulating Congratulations
 Do you want to give me? I second it. There you go. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Mature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend Chapter 178, Outdoor Vendors of the Unified Development Code to end the permit lottery for mobile vendors utilizing public parking areas, to allow administrative approval of permits for mobile vendor courts and sidewalk cafes, to allow mobile vendors to administratively renew permits annually, and to make technical revisions. Okay.
 Allen. I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTerre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Heady. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Munch. Yes. An ordinance amends Chapter 178, outdoor vendors of the Unified Development Code to end the permit lottery for mobile vendors utilizing public parking areas.
 To allow administrative approval of permits for mobile vendor courts and sidewalk cafes. To allow mobile vendors to administratively renew permits annually. And to make technical revisions. Okay. Do we have any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Mr. Chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennan? Yes. Batch? Yes.
 All righty. Good job, council. All right. What announcements do we have?
 I ain't nobody got no announcements tonight. Yes, Mayor, I have two announcements at this 10 p.m. hour. The first is that we're in the middle of May is Bike Month, and so we had many citizens participate in our Square to Square ride this past weekend. Over 1,500 citizens actually participated. We have a couple of events coming up. We have a Bike to Bomb Day on Sunday, the 14th.
 Actually, I guess that was us. Friday the 19th, we have National Bike to Work Day, so I encourage folks, it's a good day to ride your bike to work. And if you want to stop at an Energize station at Razorback Greenway, Frisco Trail and Dixon Street crossing between 7 and 9 a.m. on your way to the office, you can receive free breakfast, giveaways and minor mechanical support for your bike.
 Mayor Jordan will issue a bike of the month proclamation at 8 a.m. at the Energizer Station. So we invite you all to come out. We also are going to have a Life is a Cycle Memorial Day ride on Monday, May the 29th. So join us for that as well.
 And then for those folks planning to utilize the transfer station at the Waste and Recycling Center on Saturday, May the 20th, you'll have to plan another day. We will be closed to do repairs for the floor of the recycling and trash transfer station. It will reopen on 7 a.m. on Monday. So it will just be closed on Saturday as an operating day. So plan to come the following week if you have a need for that. Okay.
 Al. I just want to remind everyone that we will not have a Ward 4 meeting this month. It falls on the 29th, which is Memorial Day. But our next meeting will be June 26th. Okay. Anything else? Thank you all. Very good work. We're adjourned.