I'd like to call the meeting of the City Council order for May the 19th, 2020. Can we please call the roll? Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Smith? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Here.
 Thank you and would everyone please join me in the pledge of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Devil City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk-Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council Members, City Staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 other than those of us you see before you the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the city council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting
 viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet or computer instructions are currently shown on the screen staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand we ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized please state your name and address for the record each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment which staff will monitor now let's begin the first order business we have tonight under agenda additions i believe sonya you have a uh
 addition to the agenda. Is that correct? I do, Mayor. Thank you. I was going to bring that up at new business, but if this is a better time, I'm happy to do that now. Yes. Okay. Yes. So I would, can everyone hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay. All right. So I've prepared some
 thing to say. So, Mayor, I would like to make a motion to reconsider the vote of the sound ordinance 6305. At that time we amended the ordinance and unanimously voted to include people on bicycles.
 And I completely agree that our sidewalks and trail users should consider other users and neighbors in regard to sound, which is why I supported Council Member Marsh's original amendment. However, now that I have had time to think on it further and discuss it with the Active Transportation Committee,
 I would like to reconsider the amended ordinance to make sure to include the multiple modes of transportation that do occur on the trails. And so we just don't want to single out the bicycles. So I would like to have that say to all people using sidewalks and trails.
 So with the amended language, the intention would be to include any particular mode of transportation that people may be using, including walking, scootering, skateboarding, biking, etc.
 So at the recent active transportation meeting we learned that there's a 130% increase in cycling specific traffic and the overall trail use is up 55% since we have been in our quarantines. So rather than singling out the bicycle users on the trail I believe we need to be more broad and include all the people on sidewalks and trails.
 One last comment, I'm agreeable to tabling this recommendation to allow for time to work on the language to be written in a way that's clear and succinct in the direction of including all people.
 Okay, so your motion is basically to reconsider the amendment put on 6305 at the last city council meeting? Well, actually, it's an amendment for the ordinance itself. So the ordinance was amended. That was the last thing that was done. And so her motion to reconsider would basically put the ordinance back in front of the city council as it was right before it was voted on. Okay. This requires a second and a simple majority to pass. Okay.
 so we have a motion do we have a second second okay we have a motion in the second to reconsider all right what discussion do we have on that i have a quick question here um when we phrase that the first time it was people on bicycles and and music and stuff like that if we include everybody on the trail that would also cover people just yelling and stuff of that nature would it wouldn't
 People that holler a lot. I believe it would. I don't know. I don't have it before me. Let's have the chief here explain.
 So I'll try to answer that. It would not include people yelling the way it's currently written, the ordinance. What the ordinance states is that it comes from an amplification device. And so what we're referring to is some type of speaker or some type of amplification device. Now certainly if you want to amend the ordinance and include all different kinds of sounds and things of that nature,
 you can certainly do that. It just makes it very difficult for me and for my officers to enforce. Okay. All right. Thank you. You're welcome. What other discussions or questions do we have on that? I want to say thank you to Sonia for bringing this forward. Just the other day, there was a guy with a boom box walking very slowly down the sidewalk in front of my house back and forth. And
 and our previous ordinance wouldn't apply to that. So this helps. I think most people who are using the trails that have some sound, it's really about them hearing, but there is a certain point where it just, the volume is a lot to deal with. And my neighbors have put up signs asking people to be quiet. And I think this is just a great way to help us all be respectful of each other's space. So thank you, Sonia. Just a procedural question.
 Is there a reason why we're looking at this as a motion to reconsider instead of just bringing another amendment to the ordinance separate? Well, she couldn't. She could present a new ordinance. That's correct. That would also amend the noise ordinance and accomplish this. So that's one way. The other way is to reconsider the ordinance that you passed last time and put a new amendment to that. So it could have been handled either way.
 Do we have language ready tonight that you hope to amend and revote on the ordinance overall? I do not, and I would like to have a chance to look at trying to include sidewalks. That could be – I just would need to look at that. I'm not ready to make any recommendation on that tonight.
 Okay. In that case, I think my preference would be to not reconsider or nullify that previous vote and amendment, but I'd be happy to look at this issue as a new amendment to the ordinance where we look at how we want to handle it going forward. Do you have a reason for the reconsideration, a further one? No.
 And I'm glad you brought that up because I asked that myself. The main thing that we were talking about is it was easier to consider the reconsider it because it hasn't been enforced yet. And so if we wait, it could be enforced to just focus on bicycles. Now, I do understand that we.
 That's fine. We could do it that way, but I just wanted it to be more inclusive before it's enforced and also we have the option to do this reconsideration. So it is a time-sensitive thing at allowing the reconsideration to go into effect. I have a comment. So the ordinance that we passed two weeks ago does not go into effect for 30 days, correct? Yes.
 So if you were able to bring the written version of your reconsideration to city council next week for the agenda session, and then we get it on the agenda for the city council meeting in two weeks, we can still do a reconsideration, correct? Yes, the first ordinance would not be in effect at that point in time.
 I can have something prepared. I'll work with Blake and Kit if they feel that they can help and work with me to get that ready for an agenda session. Well, we will do what we can to look at this issue. There are First Amendment things we have to think about when we start regulating sidewalk speech, which of course can be amplified. And so if we...
 So that has i've got a little bit of concern on that because sidewalks are so traditional of a public forum that they're extremely difficult to regulate for first amendment purposes And so i'm that gives me a little bit of pause and hesitation at this point in time I think trails are more even though
 They're part of our park system, but they're not a traditional sort of First Amendment public forum. I don't think as part of a trail as opposed to a general park but I am more concerned about sidewalk because there has been a lot of litigation about cities attempting to regulate activities that would involve First Amendment the free speech rights on sidewalks so that I
 That's something I would certainly need to look at before I could make a recommendation. Would staff have to start doing anything? Because we give them 30 days to implement. It goes into effect 30 days. So we're only talking a couple days before it go into effect. Would they have to start doing anything based on being just a couple days out? You can answer that.
 Yeah, so as far as the police department goes, the only thing that we have to do is make sure that the statute number includes our e-ticket system includes the statute number. And so it already does that. So there's nothing that we would have to do logistically there.
 Nothing says that, you know, we have to enforce it through a citation or a ticket. We could certainly use warnings. You know, that's typically what we do whenever we change some type of law, especially as it relates to like a speed limit.
 in a certain section of town. There's a certain time of education for our public that we try to accomplish through PSAs and through a warning campaign, if you will. And that would be my goal with this, Councilmember Scroggins as well, is just trying to do some type of educational campaign on the front end just so our residents, our trail users understand that the law has changed. Okay, thank you.
 I appreciate Kit bringing up the free speech issue because while I think this is really important especially in residential areas, I would hate for it to restrict a megaphone at a political protest in front of the courthouse or such. So I'm curious as to how we would handle that type of issue. And again, I hate to just shoot from the hip. This is something I really need to look at hard and do some research on before I really can give you a very good answer to any of this.
 I found it in the past that it's probably better that I don't just try to immediately give an answer when I haven't really had a chance to reflect and research on it. Thank you. Well, ultimately, I think this is a great concept, but it sounds like we're not quite ready to take action on it tonight. So I hope we can take a thoughtful approach so that we make sure that we get it right to protect neighborhoods, but also allow free speech.
 Well, what we have is a motion to second before us to reconsider. And I think Sonia said that she would like to table two weeks if it passes. Is that correct? Or am I reading that wrong? I think Sonia can confirm that if that's her intent. I want to be sure. Oh, yes. I'm in support of tabling so that we can get the language right. So I guess we would need to.
 Do we need to vote to table it? Well, we've got to pass it first, don't we, Kit? Okay. You would have to pass the motion to reconsider in order to table the other ordinance. If you wanted to bring a new ordinance, then you wouldn't do a motion to reconsider, and you would simply begin a new ordinance that could also amend the noise ordinance. Right. Everybody got that? So, Sonia, what do you want to do? If there are no more comments, it has to be a vote. Okay. Okay.
 Well, we don't have any more comments. That's correct. We'll just go. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 There's a motion to reconsider has passed. So the noise ordinance that was passed at the last meeting is now back on the table in front of the council for whatever action they want to do. So I assume some of you would get to it. I move to table for two weeks. I'll second that. All right. We have a motion to second the table of the ordinance for two weeks. Any discussion on that?
 And I guess I should see if there's any comment on that. No, no. Any other discussion from the council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much.
 We'll revisit this in two weeks. I guess you'll be researching it. Okay, let's move along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the April 28, 2020 Special City Council Meeting Minutes under May 5, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a grant from the Arkansas Department of Aeronautics
 in the amount of 183 494.74 for the reimbursement of the city's 10 percent share of a 9010 federal aviation administration grant associated with the drake field taxiway
 B, widening and rehabilitation project and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve a one-year lease agreement with Aurora Aviation, LCBBA, Elite Aircraft Services for office space and the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue, suite E for the plan in the amount of $300 per month. Number four,
 a resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract with craft and toll and associates incorporated for the ruckel road extension project in the amount of nine thousand five hundred dollars and debris budget adjustment this is one of our transportation bonds 2019 transportation bond program number five a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with craft and toll and associates incorporated pursuant to rfq 20-01
 Selection number six, in total amount of $37,000 for analysis of the clabber creek between North Dean Solomon Road and North Rupert Road for potential improvements to help alleviate flooding in the area. Number six, a resolution to approve a stream restoration and easement agreement.
 with the watershed conservation resource center for the continuation of the stream restoration project on the west fork of the white river on city of federal property number seven a resolution to prove pass order number five with the watershed conservation resource center in the amount of sixty thousand dollars for stream bank restoration projects on the white river and neocost creek is the group project contingency in the amount of nine thousand dollars
 number eight a resolution to authorize contract with thermal process systems incorporated in the amount of six six hundred eighteen thousand three hundred nineteen dollars and sixty one cents to repair the roofs on the six solar drying houses at the bio solids management site to approve a project contingency in the amount of sixty one thousand eight hundred thirty two dollars and to approve a budget adjustment number nine
 a resolution to approve a payment of a
 stewardship fee to the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust in total amount of $20,000 to create an endowment for long-term habitat management and monitoring of the Westside Prairie. Number 10, a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with the Washington County regarding funding for the Gulf Coast high-intensity drug trafficking area in the amount of $118,734.80
 for the police department to approve budget adjustment and number 11 a resolution changed the name of north smith avenue to north game day view i will obtain a motion except it's in agenda as rare so moved second who's who was on who was the second time all right there would you please kenyon yes petty yes scroggen yes
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now moving along to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property describing zone petition RZN 20-714 for approximately 0.27 acres of
 Located at 1324 West Mount Comfort Road from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban. That was left on the second reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Bunch. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7014 for approximately 0.27 acres located at 1324 West Mount Comfort Road.
 from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Okay. Garner, do you have anything new? Yes. Good evening, Mayor and Council. If you'll recall several weeks ago, I think the applicant discussed that additional requests had been submitted
 in this neighborhood similar requests and two of those requests are on the planning commission's agenda next week and i i thought they are relevant to your decision so if i can figure out how to share those uh take you to that okay go ahead are you with this car yeah i'm with you here we go okay um so there are two requests um if you follow my cursor
 What's on your agenda tonight is this lot that goes from Hendricks to Mount Comfort. And there's a request to rezone from RSF 8, the lot that you just rezoned RSF 8 recently to RIU. And then down the street or across the street from that request, there is a request to rezone from RSF 4 to RIU.
 This request has the applicant has offered a bill of assurance limiting the uses to single-family residential. So I'm just bringing those forward so you can see what's what you may be receiving if Planning Commission forwards these.
 I got an email from somebody that said all of those are, there's like a bill of assurance that they're only gonna be single family. Is that correct? Council Member Scroggins, it's correct for the large request on the south side of Hendricks. It is not correct for the RSF8 on the other side of the street. Okay, thank you. Other questions we have in the council? Okay, what public comment do we have on this?
 Mayor Terry Phelan is up. Yes. Terry, go ahead. Can you hear me now? Yes. Ah, there we go. Sorry about that. Okay, so I think in the last meeting, I forgot to mention that my property is over on North Maxwell, and I'm a member of the neighborhood. So, again, I assert my...
 I ask that the council vote against this request. The R.I.U. that is currently before you is currently in the process of being re-zoned. And I ask that the council vote against
 would permit apartment type housing, duplexes, three to four family dwellings, triplexes, within our RS4 neighborhood that has single family style homes and the only,
 structures in our neighborhood that are that are apartment type houses are on Hendrix and I will remind the council that the only reason those exist go goes back to an error by the city in zoning that allowed those apartments to be built in the first place and I ask that the council not um
 compound that problem by giving the lot owner for this current request before you open range on building structures because that's basically what would happen without a bill of assurance to build only single family homes. And I don't consider Jorgensen or Tillman or whoever owns that to be a good neighbor in building
 not offering a bill of assurance the
 I have my notes. Give me a second. I am going through them so I don't ramble too much. A vote to approve this R.I.U. without a bill of assurance to build only single-family homes, frankly, in my opinion, does not respect the residents in this neighborhood. And impacts all the neighbors just as seriously as the residents themselves.
 the noise ordinance that previously just got discussed. I think in the last meeting on the 5th, I think someone said something about RU being a residential zoning. I think that was, I think that's what got mentioned. I think that's a little bit disingenuous because it doesn't consider the type of building structures.
 to stick apartment type buildings in with single families and this is a single family structures in this neighborhood, I don't believe is fair. And it goes against the promise that our neighborhood received from the mayor and the council, well, I guess the mayor spoke for the council at a previous
 council meeting some years ago, as well as a planning commission some years ago, that promise being that we would not have any more such buildings within our neighborhood. And that's exactly the type of building that could be built,
 Should this be approved without a bill of assurance to build only single-family homes? And I'd also – I don't know if I'm going to be the only person that raises their hand and speaks about this, but I wanted to –
 point out that I know others in my neighborhood have sent emails about this and you know, they believe that they've already quote-unquote spoken to the council about this and Don't believe that they I
 are expected to to to join a zoom meeting because they've already um you know uh quote unquote spoken even though it was a uh in an email so i i would ask the council to please um respect the the
 the neighborhood, the majority of the neighborhood on this. Don't pass this without a bill of assurance at the very least that commits Jorgensen to build only single family homes. All right, I guess I'm done, thanks.
 Thank you. Now, let me go over the rules of public comment. I should have already done that. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by a majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, stay on the topic, which is the rezoning. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. And who else would like to talk to us tonight? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 All right, we're on the last reading. What final comments do we have from the council? I'd like to make a comment. Sure. You know, I've driven by this place several times by this lot, and that is an extremely narrow, narrow lot. I mean, it is tiny. The road, Mount Comfort Road, is very narrow. It's overused, as it is. It probably needs to be widened.
 And this neighborhood, we've heard from the neighbors many times. I mean, it's a modest, well-established neighborhood. And to go from single family four to R.I.U. is a huge jump, huge jump. And there is no there are no safeguards to the neighbors about changing the very nature of their neighborhood. Right.
 I just think that this is too large of an up zoning and we'll not be supporting it. Okay. I'd like to make a few comments. Sure. As Council Member Turk mentioned, we have heard about this neighborhood before, and this is the same thing about changing the nature of the neighborhood.
 We know that it was a city error that allowed an apartment type building in this neighborhood. And there was worry at that time that this is going to set a precedent for allowing RIU type zonings in the future. At that time, the city council and the planning commission made a promise to the neighborhood that they would help preserve the neighborhood as a single family neighborhood. I see Matthew shaking his head no, but that's exactly what happened.
 Right, Mayor? That's correct. I did. I did. I know I will. As far as my part goes, I don't remember everything. But I know that I made that promise. Right. Well, there were promises made and I don't think that it's time for promises to be broken.
 The, but besides that, if you look at the neighborhood now and you look at the possibility of ruining the fabric of the neighborhood as a single family neighborhood that does have affordable housing. And again, I mentioned the argument for higher density has always been that it's going to develop more affordable housing.
 It hasn't happened. And I know that it's somewhere along the linear progression where we reach a tipping point of something that will allow more affordable housing. But what we have in this neighborhood currently is affordable housing.
 So I don't see why we need to destroy affordable housing to think that somewhere in the future, based on some idea that certainly hasn't revealed itself in the higher density in the south side of town, that we are really getting a bargain and allowing people to have affordability or affordable homes.
 I'm always willing to side with the neighbors because I think if you want to know about a neighborhood, if the neighbors get together and they have a united front, and that's what this neighborhood has, and they have a desire to protect their way of life, their quality of life, and they speak out about that, then I respect it. And so respectfully and respect for the neighbors, and this isn't my ward, I'm going to stand up for them.
 As I always have, I cannot support this rezoning without a bill of assurance. If there were a bill of assurance attached, like there is in Mr. Mark's paperwork, to be considered at some time in the future, then I would have reason to believe that I could support this. So that's my point of view, and I just wanted to say what I thought. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 I would just like to point out that apartments, duplexes, townhouses, those are residential units. And healthy communities grow and change and evolve to meet the growing and changing and evolving needs of their residents.
 You know, economics change, demographics change, and what we're looking at is a parcel of land that has been within walking distance of our university, our largest employer. It's within walking distance of a grocery store, of restaurants, of our trail network, of our transit network. This is where we should be building more density.
 You know what we're asking with it what the applicant is asking for the ability to do is to build on smaller lot sizes Which is better for our environment and it's good to cluster houses together and
 You know, I think that it's a sign of a healthy city that people are wanting to live here and live closer in. And, you know, if you look at the reality of today's economy and, you know, who is in a position to take on a 30 year mortgage for a single family home versus those that are capable of renting an apartment or or a duplex. I think that.
 All residents matter regardless of their economic circumstances and I think we can no longer, I'm not going to be a part of prejudicing towards people who can afford to own homes when there are a lot of other housing models that are really needed in the community and that this is a great place to put them where people can be within walking distance or biking distance of essential services. Thank you. Okay, who else? Mayor, I have a comment.
 Thank you. There are a couple things I'd like to cover before sharing some of my general thoughts. First is that, I mean, it's obvious just from our own conversations, of course, that housing provisioning and housing affordability is too complex for us to make simple sense of.
 One of the things that I feel frustrated by sometimes is when we compare the relative affordability of older housing stock with new construction. And I feel it's very important for the city, for our planning staff, and for our elected officials to compare like versus like. For instance, when I ask myself if relatively higher density
 can be more affordable than relatively lower density. If I'm looking at a 1940s neighborhood, perhaps I should look at some 1940s apartments. For instance, the apartments at the top of Dixon Street, which are across the street from the old York Bowl, are eminently affordable. The apartments on Meadow Street across from our municipal parking lots are very affordable. Most of our old apartments are famously affordable in this city.
 On the other hand, when we look at new construction, we see incredible sticker shock from the advertised prices of new apartments and new homes. I wonder if we actually looked at the data, what it would tell us about the average price of a newly constructed home in a subdivision that's zoned for four units per acre. I suspect that the average mortgage and the average down payment is substantially higher
 than the average rent for new construction. I don't know that that's true because, to be honest with you, I haven't done that research myself. But it seems to me as though no one has. I also have to ask myself about per capita metrics.
 For instance, I see the reactions across this virtual call when another council member says that smaller lot sizes are more environmentally beneficial or at least less detrimental. But isn't it the case that we should do the math on per capita impervious surfaces and look at those comparisons with different neighborhood formats, different street typologies? We should.
 We should be empiricists, but we haven't been, not in this conversation or in others. I don't understand why not. These questions are not so simple that we can just magic an answer into the air, but they're not so complicated with formulas and arithmetic that we couldn't figure it out. Other cities have, and we can learn from them. I suspect many of our decisions would be
 be better deliberated among us if we had that kind of data. Why don't we talk in terms of per capita allotments? We should. One of the things that I also feel frustrated about that it's hard for me to not take personally, because I feel so strongly that we have to act in an assertive manner to address crises like COVID, but also like climate change. And I know that most of the other council members, if not all of us,
 probably feel as strongly as I do. There's a statement that I grew up on, I'm going to butcher it, but it basically says that in every decision we should consider the impacts on all generations going forward, or at least the next seven. And I've always taken that very seriously and tried to live my life by it. So I get very frustrated and it's hard for me to take it personally when people implore me to ignore the needs of future generations. And
 It's also hard for me to not be frustrated when we talk about the housing needs we have today and we try to push those aside with criticisms of our population projections. But do we not already have a homelessness crisis in this city? Do we not already have thousands of people in the city without shelter? Do we not already have children at our own schools without a place to sleep? We do. They've been evicted.
 That number has grown by more than 150% in roughly the last decade because of our decisions. Decisions that we have failed to connect. Why? I don't know. It is scary to take responsibility for these decisions, but I feel that we must, all of these, chip away at the goals that we want to achieve. There are two more things I'd like to talk about. First is the notion I see many people making a political calculation.
 And I think there are even memes in the planning community about what happens and the reaction in the staff department when a rezoning like this comes forward in a neighborhood like this. But I have to ask myself, or at least I'm curious about, if it's more politically risky to support a rezoning for one parcel, or if it's more politically risky to support a mass rezoning for an entire neighborhood. I believe that experimentation is better for our city.
 The last thing I'd like to say, and this is very difficult for me to talk about, is the discriminatory history of our zoning ordinance. We have raised it in passing in many conversations. I hope that it will be taken seriously this time. A few months ago, I attended a racial equity workshop by invitation. I didn't want to go.
 I thought it would be a frankly, hug it out, cry it out kind of a session. And I figured that if they wanted my help, they should just tell me how I could help. But I attended at the insistence of the host. It wasn't anything like I imagined. And what I remember most about it, it was at the end when we were discussing what it was we needed to do. And what the host told us more than anything was that we needed to have courage.
 And that's what I'm trying to have tonight as I discuss the racist history of our zoning code. If you don't believe it, fine. I don't want to either. But read the minutes. It's there.
 It's talking about our black and our brown neighborhoods and about how we need to change the code so that the kinds of housing that exists in those neighborhoods cannot be built again. And if you look at the history and the data of what has been built in the city, since those codes were adopted, you will find the houses and the lot sizes have grown every decade. I'll be supporting the ordinance.
 I'm very skeptical of supporting a bill of assurance that restricts a zoning request like this to single family. I feel as though that is holding new housing hostage so that we can get higher housing prices. Doesn't make sense to me. I'll be supporting the comprehensive plan and its policy determination that we should support a mix of housing types in this neighborhood. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Any other comments from the council? Okay.
 Chair, it's time to call the roll. Would you please call the roll? Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. So, Mayor, in these five, if there are any votes to pass, and Council Member Bunch is joined again. Okay.
 Councilmember Bunch is with us. Sarah, do you care to vote? I'm sorry. I had a somebody with a saw going in my backyard there so I had to get it. Can I still vote on this? This is the vote on the rezoning. Yeah. Yes. Okay. That's now five to three. Five to three, then the rezoning passed. All right. Thank you all. Let's move on to number two.
 A resolution to name the baseball complex at Kessler Mountain Regional Park the Chambers Baseball Complex. Connie do you have anything to add to this? Good evening Mayor. No I don't have any new information to add this evening but I'm here to answer questions. Okay what questions do the council have for this item? Mayor I have a question for the other council members and maybe an update on
 what I've been speaking with the administration about since my requested table, this is the previous meeting. Sure. Thank you. So I let you know at the agenda session that I had requested a resolution be drafted that would make it our intent to update the prior parks fundraising RFP that was issued but not executed in 2017 to update and reissue that. That resolution has been drafted.
 and I believe will be appearing on our next agenda for discussion, so I won't spend a lot of time tonight making a case for that. What I do want to say about the item before us is, I'm of course very appreciative of the gift and the circumstances within which we've been able to obtain and develop Kessler Mountain.
 I still have concerns that I feel are important to voice about the way we got here. I appreciate what is trying to be done and I'm likely to vote yes, although I have a punchline question at the end of this that I'm looking to collect some other council members' thoughts about and maybe be convinced by someone. But I don't, I have concerns that the way we got here,
 Our fundraising strategy or tactic in this case has come from an unlikely office, our city attorney's office, not that he isn't capable, and I don't mean to suggest that in any way, but it's unusual for this kind of a proposal, I think, to come from a city attorney.
 I wouldn't say that if it had come from the Parks Department and if it had been part of a fundraising plan. And that really is only my concern. It's my only concern that this has been done in an ad hoc manner. I think Fayetteville is large enough for us to do a little bit better. And so my punchline question is,
 I have a little bit of discomfort with the proposal to establish the name of the ball fields for a 30 year period without having.
 a more comprehensive fundraising plan in place. That's only because I don't know what a good fundraising strategy would look like. I don't know the relative value of a 10 year naming convention versus a 30 year naming convention. And I do know that I have what I think is a reasonable concern about making such a durable decision without any of us having that kind of knowledge.
 I would be far more comfortable if this proposal was for a shorter length of time. And I would suggest 10 years for discussion. I'm not going to make a motion now unless there's a broader consensus stated by the rest of the council. And even if we don't do that, I'm not certain yet that I would vote no on this on principle. Because as I started and as I'd like to end, I am actually appreciative of
 of the circumstances by which we've come to have Kessler Mountain. So, Matthew, your concern is that the length of time is too long. Am I summing that up correctly? Yes, Mayor. Okay. I should point out that even though I'm happy to take as much credit as I can for this, it actually was a...
 was a project both the mayor and myself and came from the mayor to the city council on the agenda. I think it was clearly stated that way in the agenda request form. But I did think that it was a very appropriate for a bank such as Chambers, which has probably donated more than $10 million to Kessler Mountain Park itself
 that they receive some recognition. And I also believe that even though my Rotary Club has built a playground there and has some recognition for that,
 that there have not been too many projects, too many things that have been bringing forward donations. And I thought that Chambers Bank being recognized with a sign would be maybe inspirational to other organizations that they too should support our parks. And so I thought it would actually be an impetus for other donations to come forward
 if we went ahead and recognized Chambers. And that's why I spoke with the mayor on that. And that's why we finally contacted Chambers Bank to see if they would be happy to be recognized for their multimillion dollar donations. And my part in this is that when the city attorney approached me with Chambers Bank, we knew,
 that they had given a large amount to the city. We also had run it through, I believe, the Parks Advisory Board looked at this too before we ever brought it to the city council. And so that's just kind of, you know, it's not going to affect the fields of the future, but it's the fields that are already there, if I understand correctly. Is that right, Connie? Yeah.
 Yes, it is there. That's exactly what the resolution says. Okay. And you did run it through the Parks Advisory Board? Yes, we did. And it was voted unanimously to name it. Okay. So you all are good with it? Yes. Okay. What else from the council? I have words. Well, is that Matthew that had more or?
 That was me, but you can go first. Well, I have a few words. In this case, what we're talking about is a specific piece of property that has been developed due to the generosity of Chambers Bank. This has transformed our city and it's left a centerpiece to be protected for the future.
 It's offered a big boost to the south side and the west side of town, which is somewhat neglected. And now it's going to be a centerpiece. So every element of this park is absolutely remarkable. And it's going to leave a historical future by preserving this in a big way.
 chambers is who made it happen. So I think this is so appropriate. I do think it's okay in the future to talk about a funding plan. It has been talked about a little bit in the past. I remember when we were talking about the Iams dog park or something, but yeah, we can talk about that in the future, but tonight we're going to consider a plan
 a name for a piece of property, a small piece of this large development to honor the people or the business that made this happen for our city. We have a world-class cycle cross event coming to town that is absolutely based on part of this property also on the other end.
 This is incredible. And I think that Chambers deserves every bit of, to be honored with this for the generosity that they have displayed. Okay.
 Yeah, I'd also like to thank the mayor and Kit for bringing this forward and Chambers for the donation. Isolated, this definitely makes sense. I'll be voting for it. But I definitely agree with Matthew that going forward, we need to set some metrics. We need to know what's.
 Is this the right ratio for what they've given? Maybe if we look at it objectively and look at metrics, we should be giving them more. We don't know that, so it'd be...
 Really good to have that in place, get some metrics in place moving forward. And I agree with Kit. It looks like moving this forward has got the conversation started. And I hope the conversation continues and we get some metrics and we don't just ad hoc this, you know, six years from now that we actually have a plan moving forward. So thank you. Who else? Yes.
 I would like to talk about how I came into this item thinking because my mindset has changed. And I think part of that is due to Council Member Petty's line of conversation on this. And I'm not sure if I will directly answer the question that he asked us for feedback on in the process, but I hope buried in here somewhere is a nugget of what I'm thinking.
 I've talked to a number of neighbors and residents about this just in casual conversation. Hey, what do you think? Isn't this cool? I wasn't sure if this was named for Chambers the Bank.
 or chambers the person who happens to be president. And I think that matters because what I realized in talking to people is they'd rather their parks be named after people from the community and not after businesses. Centennial Park was part of the conditions of accepting that, and that makes sense. I don't remember what the IMES said
 I don't know what the origin of that name was. That was before I was up here. But people refer to that park as the dog park at Bryce Davis. Not as I'm, I don't know. And I'm a little embarrassed to say that I don't know who Wilson and Walker and Gregory and Bryce Davis and Gary Hampton are. I haven't done enough of my local history research to learn about those people. But I do know that there are some people who are in the dog park. And I'm a little embarrassed to say that.
 But something tells me they were probably important people here in the community and they contributed something beyond land or cash. And I would like to see our park serve as a cultural marker that references our history and gives people an opportunity to learn about their town, or at least a motivation to be connected to it.
 I kind of let go of that idea because I wasn't sure how to articulate it, especially up against this idea of an intentional fundraising effort. Because that sounds like it has a lot of merit and having a formalized process for fundraising.
 doing real good for our park system would soften my stance on that sort of philosophy of community recognition. In this one, I guess it's convenient that both the bank and the man have the same name, and so I don't have to wonder. I did look him up a little bit. He was on the board of directors for the university, except it was the wrong university. It was Tech. So I'm glad that he came and talked
 push the bank to give us this land maybe that's enough of a contribution to the city to to be an influential person in our history but those are the things i'd like to be thinking about as we look at future park naming questions sure who else
 Well, you know, I think that Chambers Bank is, I don't know how it's owned now, but it was started as a family bank. And they used, they named the bank after their family. So, you know, I think where we have parks like Gully Park that, you know, I think the family was named Gully that owned the land there. So we didn't name it.
 Bob Gully Park or whatever his name was. We just, it's Gully Park. So I think the Chambers thing kind of covers both ends of the spectrum there. It is a business, but it is, I would be surprised if he's not the major stockholder or his family are not major stockholders in it anymore. So I'm confident with naming it that. Thank you. Okay. Who else? Just maybe a couple of comments here.
 not necessarily questions, but I do appreciate Matt
 Matt's questions about process and procedure. And I think that's good to figure out what, what and how we're doing that. And I feel that Connie has done a very awesome due diligence to take it back to the committee and talk about have them, you know, go through the motions of what's going on there. So, but definitely moving forward, I think it'd be great to, you know, to have it a little bit more, you know,
 to answer all the questions that Matt has. And I actually do, I think it's okay, and if it's not okay, for staff to be involved in the process to help make sure that we do give credit where credit is due. So I don't have a really a problem with that at all. But I definitely, and in fact, I would wanna encourage staff to be involved in the process and to inform us on when we are missing steps.
 So I just wanted to throw those few comments out there, but definitely we'll be supporting the naming. I appreciate the gift and what it's gonna do for our community. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay.
 What I'm going to do is open it up for the public to make some comments. So everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a five-minute time limit, unless City Council, by a majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is the renaming of the baseball complex for the city.
 for Chambers Baseball Complex. And no rude behavior, please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. It's a resolution. Yeah, there needs to be a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass resolution. I do wanna make a comment or two here. I remember that time when I came into office
 I thought we had a deed to the 200 acres, but we didn't. And the council at that time decided to go on with the regional park. I know Matthew was on that council and he probably remembers that about as well as I do. And so we began to negotiate with Mr. Chambers on the 200 acres, we didn't really have anything. So after negotiating, I know Kit was involved, Jeremy Pate was involved.
 Chief of Staff then, Chief of Staff Don Marvis involved, they gave us the 200 acres and gave us the deed to go with it. So they've been very honorable in their negotiations with the city.
 And then there was, where was the, what was the other gift that they gave? Well, there's two other things. Obviously, they also sold us over 300 acres at less than $10,000 an acre, which was a very good price. And then they returned $2.25 million worth of parkland credits.
 so that rather than losing those credits as other people would develop and use the credits so we would not receive any more parkland money, we actually received all of those credits back with the value, according to our own determination of how much parkland is worth, of over $2.25 million. Okay.
 All in all, with the initial 200 acres that they really did not have to give us, we had an agreement with another company that went broke. And so they did not have to honor that. They went ahead and did honor that. And so if you look at 200 acres, that's well over $8 million, even if you just look at our parkland credit cost at that point in time. Yeah.
 We're in the realm of $10 million, and frankly, we just would not have Mount Kessler Regional Park without Chambers Bank's help. Yeah, and I agree with Kit. We wouldn't have that park out there if they had not donated the land to us. And so I felt it was the right thing to do, name the baseball complex after the Chambers family. So.
 for the bank or family name or whatever and matthew to your point about fundraising yeah we we need to set up a fundraising program we will do that and uh but tonight i was just looking at the naming of the baseball complex but i certainly would like to look at uh fundraising as well thank you mayor you're very welcome thank you anything else oh i'm sorry i need a motion in the state we've got a motion okay uh any other final comments council
 All right. Care which police called Rob Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. All right. Moving along to number three.
 an ornistry zone that property is driving the zone petition rzn 20-7035 for approximately 8.60 acres located at 618 north ruble road from rsfl neighborhood services limited to cs community services that was left on second reading i'll entertain a motion to go to third and final read so moved second okay we have a motion second to go third and final reading care which please call the road union
 Yes, I was muted. Sorry about that. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 And, Norman, it's to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZM 20-7035 for approximately 8.6 acres located at 618 North Rupel Road from NSL Neighborhood Services Limited to CS Community Services. Okay. Garn, what do you have? Yes, Mayor. Since at the last meeting, City Council amended this application to CS Community Services,
 Both the Planning Commission members and the City Council expressed a desire to protect the pedestrian environment along newly constructed Ruppel Road. And so the attorney had some issues with being careful not to violate the Constitution and federal law with regard to how we regulate churches
 So the applicant has put another alternative on the table for City Council's consideration. And that includes a bill of assurance. I can read the provisions unless Kit wants to have it in front of me.
 the uh go ahead and read okay the use of the petitioner's 8.6 acre property shall be limited to a church and in a parking lot number two no parking lot or drive out shall be located in the area between the right-of-way line property line along ruple road and the face of the building number three the attached conceptual site plan illustrates the general location of the proposed church building and parking layout on the site
 exact billing location will be determined with the preparation of the large-scale development plans and will reflect all utility provider requirements along easements along Ruple Road. For petitioner specifically agrees that all such restrictions terms shall run with the land by no future that's just normal binding clause to a bill of assurance.
 So if I did share the conceptual site plan last week, I'd be happy to go over and share that with the council too if you have questions about it. Or if you have questions, I'd be happy to answer them. I do believe that Mr. Dennis Blyne and a guest is representing the applicant if you have questions for the applicant.
 Garner, can we see that graphic? Yes. And kind of explain what assurance this bill of assurance gives so I can understand exactly the impact that it has. Certainly. Okay. Do you see the, did I see it?
 The building would be located addressing the Rupert Road, approximately 35 foot setback with a front entrance. I think it's very important that it actually addresses the street and the parking would be entirely on the east side. The access would be a single row access on the north side of the site.
 The bill of assurance is written, this obviously is at the rezoning stage and the large scale needs to go to the Planning Commission for approval. So the intent of that bill of assurance is to generally reflect this conceptual plan
 uh but give enough flexibility uh as it goes through the uh large-scale development process to make it reality the the absolute and the bill of assurance of course is that no parking will be located between the building and ruble road thank you i i have a question for garner
 I believe it is, yes. Okay. So the parking is not in excess of what we would allow or any other kinds of requirements? Good question. Yes. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question.
 the part of the parking would take a variance from the planning commission, but you are not granting in that variance with accepting this bill of assurance. Okay, so they would have to go through, if we accepted this bill of assurance, they would still have to go through the planning commission to get the variance that's shown here displayed in this illustration, correct? Yes, yes, that is correct. Okay, thank you. And we also,
 For this bill of assurance, we'd also need to rezone to what? The request is that it goes with the P1 district. Okay. Can we make the motion for all that together? Do we need a piece milling? Yes. Both the title and the body would need to be slightly amended. I could read what it would be if you wanted to accept this bill of assurance and rezone to P1 institutional if you wanted me to, or else you can just make that motion. Okay.
 I will make that motion or I guess I am making that motion. Second. Before we get into that, Mayor, I still have a question for Garner and I think a follow-up for Kit. Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry. Kit, in follow-up to what Teresa was asking about the variance, do you anticipate any sort of changes?
 and I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question.
 I don't think that would be a problem. The number of parking spaces, they're seeking an increase on the number we would normally allow for a building with the amount of seats and space that this building has.
 I think that is certainly something that is not going to affect, at least I would make arguments that it would not affect any of their RELUPA rights or their religious freedom rights. I know that they would rather have more parking, but I think that is a fairly safe decision that the Planning Commission could make and on appeal to City Council. Thank you.
 And Garner, can you briefly describe for us sort of the difference between the CS zoning that we amended to last time and the practicalities of P1 with this bill of assurance? What are we, if we amend like Sloan asked, what are we losing from CS and what has this different?
 The difference would be the CS zoning setback is 10 to 25. So they're seeking an additional setback and I think with the scale and massing of that building, that's probably something the Planning Commission might grant anyway.
 Other issue that gives them pause is the design standards that are invoked with the CS zoning, commercial design standards. Mayor, can I ask the applicant a question? Sure. Are they on and able to answer? Yes, is the applicant there? Yes.
 So just with respect to the design standards, I think we already know that they're deficient, especially in our ability to enforce them with
 This Lupa law that Kit has brought to our attention. Do you have any specific feedback for us about which design standards give your clients pause and concern? I think that that could be useful for us to learn from as we hopefully soon look to revise our design standards in a way that would be more consistent with the law.
 Sure. This is Dennis Blind with Olson. Also with me tonight at the virtual council meeting is Brett Harrington. He's the construction team leader for the church. The design standards, the non-residential design standards were really, first off, they're not applicable to a building of this size. They're talking about 200 feet. We're in excess of that.
 on the dimensions of the building. There are window requirements, things of that nature. Scale height of the building fluctuating from one end to the other is in,
 That's a hard thing to comply with when you have a church with a sanctuary that's typically at a different scale than classrooms and fellowship areas. So we dove into all the Zynglein, and we looked at that even before we applied rezoning with the CS, and we did.
 it would require considerable extensive variances of the design guidelines and it just doesn't fit for this scale of a building, this large of a building. We do, the biggest thing we always heard from everyone is the urban form on the corridor.
 So we respect that. We shifted the building forward. We got as close as we can. There's easements out there, out along Rupert. There might be more when we go into large-scale development, but we're trying to get it as close to the street to respect the comments that the council members made, as well as the resident who spoke at the last meeting. To respect that urban form and the church floor plan, it's a modified one that they have built before, and Brett can...
 speak to that, but it does have articulation, you know, has some, it's just not a big flat blank Home Depot wall there, it will have a welcoming along RuPaul, there will be an entryway area there to the auditorium, the main access is from the parking lot side, but it will have a welcoming look to it. But it's just hard to apply Councilman Smith, those design standards, those guidelines to a building of this scale.
 and to make it work. So that was the biggest issue we had with it. And Brett, please speak in. Okay, anybody else? Maybe not. I thought it sounded like they had an additional comment. Okay. Brett had any comment to make? They're gonna have a presentation too? Yeah. I have no idea. Okay. Are you guys able to hear me? Yes.
 We can hear you. I apologize. Excellent, okay, yes. As Dennis said, my name is Brett Harrington, and I represent the church and lead the construction team. So he hit the nail on the head in terms of what the requirements were that we were seeing that were gonna require such variance. And so what I do wanna assure the council is that the buildings that we build are extremely high quality,
 and it will be an attractive building if for no other reason than we want it to be attractive from RuPaul. And so we will be applying many of those elements that are within the design guidelines, but we would want to be able to do it alongside of the city staff and figure out which ones make sense. And as part of the P1 zoning, putting the church into that applicable zoning, but then designing the building in a way that makes sense for a church when it's at a built-to zone, if that makes sense.
 Yes, thank you all. I really appreciate your attention to all that. I know this has been a difficult conversation and you've been kind of the tennis ball back getting knocked back and forth. So I hope we're going to take some public comment on the amendment, but pending that, I think this looks much better than what we were presented with earlier. Thank you.
 I'm going to take public comments on the amendment and then the amended ordinance before we're done. The amendment first. But there's no amendment on the table. No one has made a motion. Yeah, we got a motion and a second. And then I'm seeing if the council has any more questions. If the council don't have any more questions on the amendment, then I'm going to open it up for public comment. The amendment basically is to go from a...
 CS back to a P1 with a bill of assurance that have a 35 foot setback and that most of the parking will be on the
 East side. Yeah, all of the parking will be behind the boat. Okay, and then the front will face Rupert Road. So I want to be sure everybody's got that. All right. So what public comment do we have? Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Unless City Council by majority vote gives you more time, or if City Council has questions for you, stay on the topic.
 which is the amendment uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first mayor will dockery is up okay go ahead will hello uh will dockery or can you hear me
 yes okay will docree 4149 west brad street lane uh thank you marin council i find the solution an interesting one but i appreciate the applicant listening to the neighborhood and the concerns about walkability and addressing and fronting the street things which we know are cornerstones of safety from many national studies and from the fayetteville police department and their septed principles
 things that i've sat through before as part of the neighborhood interest forum under mayor jordan these are important things things that we say are important so let's go ahead and approve this zoning with the bill of assurance i like i said i just want to thank the applicant for listening to us and
 uh welcome to the neighborhood and i i'm looking forward to being your neighbor um also in a separate but highly uh related note we need to separate government zones like schools and government like city stuff from religious zones thank you thank you who else would like to address this on the amendment all right i'm going to bring it back to the council is there any final comments on the amendment before we vote
 I'm going to turn it over to the Board of Trustees. Thank you. Mayor, just a couple of points from the feedback that we got from the applicant. They said that one of the things that makes it difficult to comply with our design standards is the size of the building and the scale of it. And that, in fact, is one of the biggest concerns I had with this application in general is a 40,000 square foot,
 I know we have a lot of people right here across the street from a row of houses that are right there. But I believe we have managed to address that. I just wish that there were a way
 to better classify our churches by their size, because I think that while I would never want to tell a church that they couldn't be in a neighborhood, I think that there is a real difference in the impact of a church of, say, 100 members in a sanctuary and one that's expecting a thousand. And just a second kind of technical question about the drawing here. I know that this is sort of concept and
 Some parts of it are going to be enforceable and others are less. But they mentioned the window placement, and that's kind of one of the concerns I have here is that it's awkward to look at a floor plan on a zoning question because normally that's beyond the scope of the consideration. But the portion of the building that's fronting Rupel is mostly storage and restrooms, and I don't anticipate those having a lot of
 uh window breaks to the street so i'm just um that's kind of the part that makes me nervous about giving up the design standards that it could be a flat wall but i'm willing to take the that kind of their word on this and go ahead and support this amendment under the uh the expectation that we will be looking for ways to adjust the way we handle church standing in the future okay all right anybody else
 Okay, Karen would you please call the roll on the amendment? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turp? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now we have the amended ordinance back to P1 and what
 Does the council have any other questions or comments before I take public comment on the amended ordinance? Yeah. As subject to the bill of assurance. I want to say that with the bill of assurance, this is certainly more palatable, but I do still have concerns because again, we don't have a design and we can't consider a design. All we can consider is the zoning with the bill of assurance, which is better than just without it. So it did.
 With the bill of assurance, you know, I can support this, but it's not easy because it doesn't really, it's not applicable to the zoning whenever I look at it in the big picture. So I will support it. I think it's commendable for this applicant to offer a bill of assurance to be a good neighbor. And so I take that in consideration, but the zoning itself is still troubling. Okay. Any other questions?
 from the council okay what public comment do we have everybody gets one turn to speak five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you stay on the topic which is the amended p1 ordinance with a bill of assurance correct hit it all right uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first addresses on the amended ordinance
 all right i'm going to bring it back to the council what final comments do we have in the council on this all right carrie would you please call the row kenyon yes teddy yes scroggins yes bunch yes tur yes smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes okay thank you all let's move to new business now number one
 in order to approve the assessment of a 2.95% fee for credit card and debit card transactions other than utility bill and parking fee payments, Kim.
 Whereas the city currently accepts credit card payments for utility bills, recycling and trash invoices, airport hangar rentals and supply purchases, animal shelter fees, building permits, building licenses, miscellaneous billing of city services, parking and miscellaneous lease fees, and has always absorbed the transaction fees for those payments. And whereas in 2019,
 The Arkansas General Assembly passed Arkansas Code Annotated 14-59-119, which requires the City to assess transaction fees associated with debit card and credit card payments unless the City Council determines that the transaction fee is included in the amount charged for the service or product for which the credit card or debit card credit payment is made.
 and whereas the city is in the process of implementing new development service software called intergov that will allow customers to pay by credit or debit card for permits inspections hotel motel and restaurant taxes and supplemental beverage taxes and business licenses through a new streamlined portal
 And whereas staff is recommending the assessment of a 2.95% fee, which is the average of transaction fees for payments to the city based on 2019 data,
 on all credit card and debit card transactions other than payments of utility bills including recycling and trash collection charges that are included in monthly utility bills and parking fees which include the transaction fees the amount charged for those services and products now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines pursuant to Arkansas Code annotated 14-59-119B3, that the credit card or debit card transaction fee is included in the amount charged for utility bills, including recycling and trash collection charges that are included in monthly utility bills and paid parking fees. Section two, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves the assessment
 of a 2.95% fee for credit card and debit card transactions other than the payment of utility bills, including recycling and trash collection charges and paid parking fees. Okay, Paul. As Kip read, prior to this time, we did not have a legislative authority to charge for a transaction fee for the use of a credit card. So we had to absorb those expenses and what was collected.
 In the 2019 legislature, it changed that. As a matter of fact, the legislation says we must collect the transaction fee unless it's incorporated into the cost of being billed. The fee is incorporated in utility bills because of rate studies and was anticipated in parking.
 These are small transactions and the cost per transaction is small. So it makes sense when a great number of transactions are processed, it does hold the cost down to use a credit card to us,
 because we would have to have a higher level of staff to handle a large number of transactions. And again, these fees are pursuant to rate studies that were suggesting we do not charge a transaction fee to our incorporated into the cost.
 One of the things that's generated this request is we are entering a new or implementing a new system to our new world ERP system called Intergov. Intergov is going to expand the usage of electronic transmission for building permits, things of that nature. It's going to expand that use to the customer
 In addition to the expansion of those types of transactions and the transmitting of data, it's going to allow the payment electronically online so we would be expanding the potential use of credit cards and fees for those type of transactions.
 So we would be able to expand greatly the usage of credit cards online to us, but we would need a way to absorb those costs to us. We would expand them for building permitting or building or business licenses. We would like to expand them for HMR taxes, for example, now an HMR tax.
 is set by percentage by law. Two percent of HMR of the gross sales are taxable for HMR. There's no way we can incorporate that into a rate. However, we'd like to offer that opportunity to the taxpayer to take advantage of electronically paying those. And
 And just for example, we take in roughly $7 million in HMR taxes a year split between park development and the A&P commission. However, if everybody paid,
 by credit card, we would have to absorb transaction fees in excess of $200,000 of that, which we really cannot afford to do and keep things going the way we would. Also, it's not fair for a very, very large transaction. For example, if someone pays a single invoice of $100,000
 and there's a 3% transaction fee on it. That's $3,000 just for that one fee. That doesn't help absorb the cost at all to process. So that's what we're really asking for is the ability to expand the number of transactions for which we will allow credit card payment so we could pay for the expenses of that credit card
 Again, all the other options would still be there. The customer can always choose to pay by cash
 Customer can choose to pay by check. So there are other options available. This gives them an option, greatly expanding the ability to pay taxes. We'd also like to roll these out for things like business alcohol beverage taxes and alcohol licenses. So we would like to really expand this to make it more convenient for the customer, give them the option to use it. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 what questions does the council have for paul on this okay what public comment do we have um everybody gets one turn to speak there's five minute limit unless city council by a majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name or an address who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council
 this is an ordinance mayor i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the road yes eddie yes scroggins yes bunch yes her yes smith yes guitarist marsh yes
 And ordinance approved the assessment of a 2.95% fee for credit card and debit card transactions other than utility bill and parking fee payments. And so. Mayor move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair would you please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance approved the assessment of a 2.95% fee for credit card and debit card transactions other than utility bill and parking fee payments. What final comments do we have in the council?
 I will ask the first question. It does not sound like there is going to be a lot of controversy here. I expect the first time you ask somebody for a 3% fee, staff may get some complaints. I wanted to make sure that I was real clear on why I wanted to move this forward through all three readings and vote on it tonight. There is a real expense associated with the fact that
 uh processing credit card transactions they are super convenient and that's why customers love them but they do cost extra to run and so it's important for us to think about who pays that when i walk into a business that comes out of their profits they can afford to eat that but a government doesn't have profits we have people's taxes and i think this is an incredibly wise way
 us to manage the people's taxes and not have them subsidize the convenience of ratepayers. I know I used to walk into the DMV and grumble about that whenever I hadn't gone to the ATM to get cash first, and then I just learned to go to the ATM and get cash first.
 or to just acknowledge that that trip to the ATM wasn't worth it to me and I could spend a few extra dollars in a percentage for a debit card or credit card transaction. And I think that customers will get used to that real soon too and learn how to do it. So I wanted to thank the staff for bringing this forward and saving the taxpayers some money. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Okay, Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7041 for approximately 1.81 acres located at 2340 East Houseville Road from RSF 4 residential single family 40 units per acre to CS community services. Kip. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to CS community services. Section 2, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garth?
 Yes, Mayor and Council. This application is just west of the crossover and Huntsville Road intersection. It's largely a vacant, but it is an important intersection with substantial potential. The surrounding zone is RSF4, except across the street, there's a community services district. There's a residential office district to the west
 And then the two sides of the intersection are presently zone C2. The adopted plans designate as city neighborhood area. It is also in 2040 identified as the future location of a walkable, perhaps transit friendly McChuse Center. And we call that a tier two center.
 um and of course the city plan goals of making the city more walkable and uh transit friendly sometime in the future this is probably it's out a while but it has potential with all the vacant property um the infield score is from five to seven it would be seven consistently but
 the water and sewer main uh 300 foot limitation the lot is is deeper than 350 feet so it drops off back drops off to five um the issues is that it's a very fairly intense district in the middle of a largely vacant area so it's got kind of a sharp drop off um
 That said, Planning Commission staff, do you recommend approval of the CS Community Service District? I'd be happy to answer any questions. And Mr. Bakunas, I believe, is the applicant's representative. And I think he can raise his hand, Mayor, if you have questions for him. Just the answer there. I see Chris Bakunas.
 Chris, you're on. All right. Well, good evening, everybody. Chris Bakun is here with McClellan Engineers. I don't know that I have anything additional to add to that. I appreciate you all considering this and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council?
 We will take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. And who would like to address us first? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. What's the wishes of the Council? This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 Okay, you got it. Kara? I have Marsh and Scroggen. Okay, good. All right. We have a motion and a second. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Tur? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. All right.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 20-7041 for approximately 1.81 acres located at 2340 east huntsville road from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to cs community services i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 I'll give this one more. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh?
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7041 for approximately 1.18 acres located at 2340 East Huntsville Road from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to CS community services. What final comments do we have the council on this? Okay, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Turke? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to number three, an ordinance to approve annexation petition annexation 20-6995, an annex 152 acres located along Humont Road north of Mount Comfort, Kitts.
 Whereas the annexation excuse me petitioner has properly secured the Washington County judge's authorization to annex 152 acres located along humont road north of mount comfort into the city of Fayetteville And whereas the City Council passed resolution eight 183 12 on September 4 2012 to allow extension of the city sewerage system beyond the city limits to the humont village development and
 And whereas the contract associated with resolution 183-12 required the developer owners of Humont Village to, quote, pledge and promise to seek immediate annexation into the city of Fayetteville as soon as it becomes legally possible, unquote. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas of about 152 acres as described in Exhibit B and the map shown on Exhibit A both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby zones the newly annexed property RA Residential Agricultural.
 Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to recognize this annexation and zoning. And Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby assigns this 152 acres to Ward 4 of the City of Fayetteville. Okay, Gar. Yes, Mayor. I'll share my screen here. Can you hear me and see the...
 screen yes okay um let me put this on slideshow okay the 152 acre parcel is on the far northwestern boundary of the existing city of fayetteville uh hillmont road splits the parcel humont road intersects with weir lane on the north and with weeder road which turns into mount comfort on the south the
 The issue that brought this to the table was that in 2012, city council entered into agreement with a planned development that was going to happen in the county. And the applicant requested that council consider providing sewer and water service to the city council.
 The development that is now completed, it's completely built out. It has 122 new homes and three existing homes within the area. The agreement called for all the city's conditions and development requirements to be met. And that includes...
 Of course, water and sewer, it includes paying fire and police impact fees, water and sewer impact fees, park land dedication, tree preservation, building permits, the houses are all built to City of Fayetteville code. City of Fayetteville issued the building permit and issued the occupancy permits.
 And we did, we recently did some research and as near as we can tell, the subdivision is built to the City of Fayetteville standards. So that takes me to the request. The request is not only to annex Humont Village, which is the subject of the
 2012 agreement but also what is called the Humon East which is a parcel between the existing city limits and the village and the parcel to the south and Humon West which is south and Humon North. The applicant as you remember when land is annexed it comes in the default district is RA residential agriculture
 The applicant is suggesting that it remain RA for the environmentally sensitive areas, the low-lying areas along Claver Creek, both sides of the creek and the creek itself, as well as the branch that goes up into the area that contains the park and the tree preservation area would remain RA.
 The applicant is requesting that a small between two and three acre parcel be zoned Neighborhood Services Limited west of Humont Road. The yellow areas be zoned RSF 8. Much of Humont Village is built with lots that are smaller than RSF 4.
 the small strip of shown in green, which would be neighborhood conservation. So the 2040 plan update designated all except Humont North as residential neighborhood area, the entire area in this request except here and it designated that rural residential.
 So staff's report looked at the city plan 2040 goals. One of those goals is not to try to create a peninsular or odd shape annexations. So the issues were a creation of a peninsula or island, how the environmentally sensitive areas were addressed with the zoning.
 The development pressure and urban density, what density was appropriate given the surrounding development. And lastly, and probably most importantly, city services. The services that are available in this area, all the city services are available with the exception, fire protection is available, but the response time,
 from presently is about nine minutes and our goal is six minutes. When the news fire station at Dean and Porter opens, that will cut two minutes off that and get close to meeting our desired goal for response time. With regard to city services and city revenues,
 uh council member petty asked me an excellent question at the agenda session which is can we predict uh how much the services will cost the city uh philadelphia sanix and how much revenue will it generate since uh last week with the help of the fire chief and the police chief and the the parks department and the gis department
 and engineering. We've all been working on getting you an answer to that. My goal was to have it tonight, but I thought maybe this might not be an item that was dealt with tonight. So I'd rather get it right and present it to you in two weeks if that's okay with you. If not, I can kind of tell you the parameters of what the findings are. So looking at the infield scoring,
 It gets a score of a one to five. It gets five on the far eastern edge and one all the way up in the peninsula.
 So staff recommends approval of the annexation request, excluding the Peninsula or the Humont North area, which isn't in the 2040 plan designated for urban level development at this time. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant's representative, Robert Rhodes, is also available if you have questions for him.
 Thank you, Garner. If you would, for just a quick second,
 Chief Harden wanted to make a comment about the fire response expectations. Sure. Yeah, I just wanted to make a point of clarification there. It's actually right at four minutes travel time from Station 7. The Rupert Road improvement helped with that and got it down. It's just a hair over four minutes, but it's right at what we're shooting for. Now, that's travel time, which would be six minutes overall response time.
 So it's okay on that, in that aspect. Anyway, that's all I have. Okay, thanks Chief. All right, is the applicant, would the applicant like to speak? Council. Mayor, we have Robert Rhodes. Okay, Robert, go ahead.
 Hi, this is Robert Rhodes, and I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill. And it's good to talk to Mayor, Council, everybody else. Thank you for hearing this matter. Let me tell you that I also am of the impression that
 that this will not advance to a second or third reading tonight, nor do I necessarily want it to do that. My clients are hopeful just to present it today and see what y'all have to say.
 I can tell you that I'm representing John L. Hunt and Phil Phillips, as well as a majority of the landowners that fall within the subject property that we're asking to be annexed and rezoned. And the rezoning is the next item on y'all's agenda. I have also sent a letter to, initially to Garner Stoll and Kitt,
 and then today, or maybe it was yesterday, I think I had it asked that the city clerk send it to all of you council members. And I understand that y'all received that. That has our position and our reasons and our rationale on why we would like this property annexed into the city.
 and rezoned as we've requested it. And specifically, it has our rationale and reasons on why the entire property, we would hope that you could put it all into the city, bring it all into the city, including a UMont North.
 And so with that in mind, I would be glad to take any questions, but I had really hoped to save any sort of formal presentation to the next meeting when I'm presuming that the second or third reading ought to come up. But I'd be more than glad to take any questions on either the annexation or the rezoning. Thank you for your time. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff or the app from the council?
 I have a question for maybe for both of them. In 2012 or 2014, when there was an agreement that this area follow all the city standards, was Humon North included in that agreement? Or was it more, I'm just wondering which sections were included in that discussion?
 It is the...
 without a doubt, adamant belief of Mr. Phillips, who signed the agreement along with Mayor Jordan and who presented whatever that needed to be presented at the time to the council and to city staff that the entire subject property, except for a few of these, some of these odd lots that we added, but the entire,
 but the entire project of UMont North, UMont East and UMont South was to be part of it, not just the part that was developed. It was because of economics that all of it didn't get developed at the same time. I think I included, or I know, I know I included an exhibit in my letter that all you council members ought to have
 And it shows a rendering by our architect at the time that we had hired Rob Sharp,
 And as you can see from that rendering from 2009, is what Mr. Sharp tells me, is the year of that rendering, the entire project included the North and the South and the East.
 So, and there's, I also have probably, I don't necessarily want to give you a too long of an answer, Mr. Tuerck, but there are about four or five other reasons why my clients are adamant that the entire project was contemplated and not just that central part.
 Okay, just one follow-up question. I see here on Exhibit B that I think you just referenced, was that included in the materials that were presented to the City Council at that time with the ordinance that you also have included here?
 I don't know the answer to that. All I know is that in my follow-up research, when I first started this project a good while ago with my clients, I didn't even know there was an agreement and a resolution and a deal
 in 2012 and 2014 that specifically said that the entire, or I'm sorry, that specifically said that as soon as UMont can be available, it needs to be annexed into the city. I found that by researching the archives. I then followed up with
 and I've passed providers to my clients, again, Mr. Sharp, and Mr. Sharp tells me is that that was one of the things that he used to present to the city. But I cannot tell you for a fact that it was given to the city at the time that either the 12 or the 14 resolutions were enacted. Okay.
 Okay. Mayor, may I address that? I just shared a screen with you. Can you see the screen? Did I succeed in sharing it? Not yet. Not yet. Okay. Oh, I need to. Okay. One more click. Now, this is the exhibit one that I believe Mr. Sharp put together as the master plan for Humont, which was attached to the 2012.
 the 2012 agreement and the agreement referred to this exhibit but when when they went to the county see this was being getting city services but county regulatory process the county took out the alleys the county had other issues with this master plan so in 2013
 There was an amendment. There were actually three agreements. There was a 2012, 2013, and then finally 2014. But the primary purpose of the amendment, which confused me too, and that's why I had asked to take it off the agenda till I had a chance to get some research done. That amendment in 2013, that no longer refers to this exhibit. That amendment says it takes a different,
 parcel for parks and tree preservation doesn't refer to the trail construction other than for the one section that was built so the paper trail shows that and I can provide you if if council wants to see all the agreements all three of the
 it's clear that the 2013 amendment abandons this master plan. But this master plan does not show Humont North. Governor, I would appreciate copies of all the agreements. I will email them to the entire council. Thank you so much. Well, I recall that when we went on the tour out there, I don't remember ever considering Humont North.
 so i i we didn't so yeah i so it was area here yeah i the the stub outs are built that are shown here so that would uh it it anticipates uh developing to the north okay mayor i think i have a question for both the applicant and garner um
 My natural inclination is to go with the staff, the Planning Commission recommendations and our comprehensive plan on that north segment. But I want to give Mr. Rhodes a chance to kind of tell us what the consequences of that would be for his clients and their plans. And then I'd like to hear from Garner about the consequences of that.
 of a development being developed under city, or I'm sorry, under county regulations there instead of city, kind of like what happened on this one. He just mentioned the alley is being removed from the HUMOT that's already there. I'd like to know what's at stake if we leave that out and it develops anyway.
 I'll go first. Smith, I understand your question is what are the consequences for my clients? Are you specifically referring to just the UMont North part or for the entire requested annexation subject property? I'm sorry, just the
 the humont north the the staff and the planning commission recommendations are to annex everything except the humont north portion i'd like to know what that means to your clients and what their plans are if that were the way that this goes down in a couple weeks can you all hear me the um the um uh
 I'm sorry, the client that owns that particular piece of land, again, which is all part of what we consider a U-Mont Village Estates, is hoping and wishing that he does get annexed, that property does get annexed into the city, and so he can start the development, provided you all also rezone in a way that allows him to do the development.
 If that does not happen, then his options are to try to sell it at a loss, try to develop it or try to develop it within the county and develop it according to county standards. What other questions do we have?
 Well, I was hoping Garner could tell us what that would look like developed under county instead of city. Council, Council Member Smith, my understanding is by right they allow one unit per acre in that area. I think they have a conditional use permit to go above that. But I don't think you have a service agreement to provide water and sewer there.
 so i think you have some leverage in terms of using the pipe to manage your your growth boundary thank you okay what other questions we got okay let's take some public comment then because i assume we're going to hold this on i'd like to hold this for sure at least two weeks so we get some information there's some things i'd like to check into myself but
 Right now, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. The last city council by a majority vote gives you more time. The city council has questions for you. Please stay on the topic. Don't move behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to address from the public? Who would like to be first? Mayor Russ Collins. Okay. Russ, are you there? I am, Mayor. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Well, thanks for having me. You know, I'm a resident here in Humont Village. My address is 2789 North Gray Squirrel.
 And I just want to call to attention a couple of things. And let me be very clear that I would be in favor of annexation 100%. We love the city of Fayetteville. My kids are in school here. Our annexation would obviously provide resources for my kids for the future of Fayetteville. I'm 100% behind that.
 What I'm not behind and what I'd love for you guys to consider is the zoning of RSF 8. I've been on this call this entire time and was moved by our alderman who spoke of just housing for all.
 I'm in favor of that. I want that to happen. However, there's no infrastructure out here for that to happen. There's no bus routes. There's no bus stops. There's no access to the trail system that we know and love. There's not enough sidewalks. Humont Road itself, I'm a bike rider, avid bike rider. It is not big enough to carry bikes and cars on it at the same time. It's just not there.
 So my biggest question to the city is that if we allow this type of zoning, what would be the infrastructure that would be first before development would happen? And then second is I know the city really, really...
 sheds light on drainage issues with new development, habitat sustainability, and I love my house but my drainage is terrible and I'll be honest with you with the developer I've had issues fixing that and I'm not confident per the history of the developer that the drainage issues would be adequate in this in this area.
 And then thirdly, just that sustainability piece. I read in one of the documents that was presented that the intersection of Mount Comfort and Humont Road was made better.
 I don't know if the last time you guys have been out there, but it is dangerous and it's got to be addressed before further development. Certainly, if we have folks that are walking, riding bikes, getting anywhere on Mount Comfort, that must be addressed. And so I would just ask that you would consider these three things and just consider the history of
 You know, the idea that we do want further housing to be available to all people and everyone in our city, but it's got to be safe and it's got to be smart. And so that's where I would land and just consider how the city would hold the developers accountable to that.
 what help the developers would give to the city for that infrastructure would be a couple of items for consideration. Thank you guys so much for your time. Okay. Gardner, do you have any answers for that? Yes, Mayor. If the additional territory that isn't developed were annexed, it then would be under the city's development review process and the next step would be platting
 And when the preliminary plat goes to the Planning Commission, both the infrastructure to serve that plat plus all the off-site improvements that can legally be extracted are usually considered. And there are some improvements to Hemant Road, as he mentioned, but the difference, that would happen whether it's RFF4 or RFF8,
 if you had more dwelling units you would actually have more capacity to make public improvements okay all right who else would like to address from the public okay okay henry would you like to address us yes can you hear me
 Yes. I'm Henry and I live at 4828 West Town Bridge. I think I will agree with a lot of what Russ said. I think one of the things that I'm thinking about is just not only sustainability, but I'm also thinking about regeneration and renewal and how this area will regenerate and renew Bayville in the long run. I think there's a lot of issues with Mount Comfort Road. I'm somebody who commutes from here to Bentonville and it is a nightmare getting to work.
 I know that I saw some of the plans that there is plans to add another way, but I think those issues need to be solved first. I think one of the things that people enjoy about North West Arkansas is the quality of life. And if those issues are not addressed first, then I think that will hinder the quality of life that people love and have come to enjoy. I think the other thing that I think about is
 How is this going to support the personal, public, and even animal plant life? I think about how much it costs to live here. You will not find a home anywhere cheaper than $250 or even $270 in this area. So it's not going to make it affordable for many people to live out here. And so I know that from what I've heard and from what I read, that affordable housing is important to the city of Fayetteville.
 And the last thing is how will it generate prosperity for the many instead of the few? Again, I think if this issue does not get resolved of some of the issues that Russ said, then I think it's going to create a lot of mess and a lot of chaos. And that is all I have. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 I certainly suggest we leave it on this reading until two weeks. I don't know. What's the wishes of the council? I think leave it here. I agree. Let's leave it on the first reading. Okay. I agree and I'd like to make a quick comment. Yeah, sure. Thank you, Mayor. I want to take just a second. Garner had asked a question I felt like of me and so I want to take an opportunity just to address it quickly.
 I appreciate that we're going to leave it here, Garner, and I appreciate that you wanted to take a little bit more time to explore that question. I also appreciate the comment that we got from one of the members of the public. And in a lot of ways, some of that comment mirrors my own thinking. Thank you.
 I'm very curious to see not just what infrastructure is required, but what it will cost to maintain that infrastructure. As I understand it now, we have provisioned water and sewer service, and I don't recall how I voted back in 2013 on that particular item, but if the other parts of my recollection are correct, we do not yet have responsibility to maintain the streets that have already been built.
 but I believe that we would if we annex them. Similarly, I believe that we'd have a responsibility to maintain all the new infrastructure that would be associated with any of the developments that may come forward. It's true that regardless of the zoning,
 When it goes to the Planning Commission, we review for all of that, but what we don't do is review what the costs of maintaining that infrastructure are going to be for the long term. And we certainly don't compare that number that we don't have to the expected revenues. I'm concerned that the proposed neighborhood format is going to run not just environmental deficits, but actual financial deficits.
 for the city and I'm also considering that there is something of an expectation that at least the original Humont development would be annexed.
 but i do want to be cognizant of that and i'll be reviewing the the agreements of uh very very carefully but most of all and i think this goes for future annexations as well
 How can we ensure that we have a full and complete picture of what the costs of annexation actually are? If we're not going to talk about total costs of annexation, if we're only going to talk about this year's cost of annexation, I worry that we're betraying our agency to the public. Council Member Petty, we are getting annual costs of the street maintenance
 We're also calculating not only what's out there today, but what we would expect if the rest of the property is developed. So actually we have those numbers now, but I'll be sharing it with you in two weeks. Fantastic. Thank you, Garner. Anything else from the council? Okay, we'll hold it right here for two weeks. And let's see, we also have number four.
 And the ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in its own petition or I'm sorry council did you have any other comments on that before I move it along everybody good?
 Okay, gonna move along. All right, number four, an onus to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-6996 for approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road to RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1, Residential Single Family Will Unit per acre, RSF 8,
 residential single family eight units per acre nc neighborhood conservation and nsg neighborhood services general kit it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one at the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification the property shown on the map exhibit a
 and the legal description exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, to RA Residential Agricultural, RSF-1 Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, RSF-8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre, NC Neighborhood Conservation, and NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville actually hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to collect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Garner, what do you have on that one? Yes, Mayor, I have just displayed the proposed zoning. The parts that are blank here, that's to depict that they're coming in with the default district RA. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 And remember, council will probably hold this one on the first reading as well. Would the applicant like to say anything to the council? Okay. Robert just stepped up. Okay. All right, go ahead, Robert. I'm sorry, Mayor. No, I only want to say that my comments that I made on the annexation part hold true to this as well. And I look forward to hearing what you guys have to say. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 What questions you have, councilor? Are we just gonna, I assume we're gonna hold this on the first reading. Anybody has any questions, go ahead. I have one.
 So during the original discussions back in 2012 to 2014, was there discussion about what zoning type would be brought into the city when it became available? Was it RSF4 or was it RSF8 at the time? Any information on that would be very helpful. Thank you. Are you wanting to? I am not aware of any discussion.
 There was, I did find that the plan that was approved, not all of those lots meet the RSF4, but that's the only thing that pertains to the zoning that I could find.
 Thank you, Garner. Could we go back to the minutes of those meetings? Is that possible to be able to harvest those and see what the discussion was like during that time? We can see what we can find. Okay, thank you so much. It may be, 2012 may already be archived and difficult to find, but we'll give it a shot.
 And Garner, I'll be happy to give you a hand with that. Okay. I think I know where it was materialized. Okay. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay. Anybody else?
 I think I just have one just for whenever we do come back, Garner, if you could help us understand any drainage improvements for the person who spoke saying they were concerned about drainage and the issues that felt like they were not being addressed. If the rezonings will help where and how that will help and if you don't want to just address it today for the next.
 Okay, yes. We'll take a look at that. That would be awesome. Thank you. Okay. Anything else you'd like for us to bring in two weeks? Okay. I'm going to move us on to number five.
 an ordinary zone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-7067 for approximately 12.14 acres located at 523 north genevieve avenue from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre kit uh be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit A and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family eight units per acre. Section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one.
 Okay. Garner, what do you have on this one? Yes, Mayor. This 12-acre parcel is located north of Persimmon, west of 54th Street. So if you think about Persimmon as it passes the solar farm, it's west of that. It is in an area that is developing rapidly, as you can see with the upheaval. This parcel has street stub ends on the south side.
 on the east, on the north, and it's got two actually here, but those weren't built yet. The surrounding zoning is RSF 4 and RA to the north and the east largely. It's designated in the plan as a residential neighborhood area, which actually recommends a variety of housing types. The infill matrix scores not very high, 2 to 5.
 The issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission, it is slightly higher density zoning in the surrounding area. And actually the districts, the requested district and the present district are very, very similar. The big difference is lot width and lot size. It allows lots down to 5,000 square feet and 50 foot width, RSF.
 requires 8,070 foot width. Staff recommends rezoning as requested. Planning Commission suggested that it just stay RSF4. They felt that more density would just put more people beyond where convenient services are available as a logical conclusion but,
 uh residential always precedes services be happy to answer any questions i believe mr georgerson is here representing the applicant okay do you like to address council yes sir good man good evening mayor how are y'all doing all right fine blake go ahead yes sir um yes we would like to uh you know look at this rezoning as a opportunity to
 capitalized off the development that western side of town um obviously the school has made an investment to purchase property on ruple road and uh potentially place the school there and we think this is a good opportunity to maximize return on the city's infrastructure on and it kind of dovetails off this previous conversation the last uh annexation and rezoning um you're also the city's gonna be paying for
 maintenance of streets, water and sewer. And so we don't feel like this rezoning from RSF4 to RSF8 is fairly unreasonable. We think it helps offer diversity in lot size and housing type. And so we think this is a reasonable request and we certainly appreciate the council's
 contemplation of this. So thanks for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay what questions do we have in the council on this? Okay. I have a question. Thank you Mayor. Garner, I was reading the staff reports of the Planning Commission's deliberations carefully and I noticed that one of the things they discussed was that
 as it was written in the staff report, that this is just outside the pedestrian shed of both a tier three center and a tier two center. And I heard you say loud and clear that housing precedes services. But with respect to this location as compared to tier three and tier two centers, how effective do you think
 allowing this housing to be constructed would be at producing a new neighborhood center? Just the difference on 12 acres on RSF 4 versus 8 in itself isn't going to magically support services.
 but more housing will get us closer to that threshold. But this isn't all that's being built in that area. There are a lot of other houses under construction. And I think the West part of Fayetteville will eventually get services. I'd also point out that it's not just walkability. The low hanging fruit is shorter trips.
 which happens immediately because people don't choose to drive long distances when for typical weekly services when they're available at a shorter distance. What other questions do we have? Okay, we'll take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn speak five minute time limit less City Council by majority vote gives you more time Where the City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic no rude behavior Please give us your name and address who would like to address the council Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's wishes the council mayor? I would like to hold this here for the time being I agree. I agree. I do too. I
 So unless somebody's got a burning desire to move it forward, I think we'll hold it right here on the first reading. I take that as affirmative. So that concludes our business tonight. What announcements do we have? Anything? Just one announcement, Mayor.
 Council, you'll recall in April you approved cross-land construction to begin to work on our Centennial Mountain infrastructure, and in fact that work is beginning. And so if you hear of construction in that area, if you notice that we are clearing some land for the road that's going in and other types of infrastructure, that project's underway. So we're getting pretty excited about the beginning of our application.
 access for our public to be able to use that mountain. And it's a beautiful project. That was the only announcement I have, except a reminder to please, if people have not done the census, please take this opportunity while you're home to make sure and complete your census form. By the end of May, door knockers will start coming, so that should be your motivation to go ahead and complete that census online.
 Thanks, Mayor. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.