I'd like to call to order the City Council meeting from May 16, 2023 to order. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Mayor Gordon. Here, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the Arkansas Special Olympics Award for the Federal Police Department presented by Donna Kilmer to Chief Mike Reynolds. Donna.
 Good evening. Thank you for giving me a little bit of time. Mayor Jordan, it was great to see you yesterday at our torch run. I just wanted to present this award to Chief Reynolds and the Fayetteville Police Department for your continued support of Special Olympics Arkansas and in particular the law enforcement torch run. Thank you very much.
 Well Donna, thank you so much. Mayor, certainly it's an honor and a privilege for the Fayetteville Police Department to participate with the Arkansas Special Olympics. As you've taught me many times, the key to success is to surround yourself with good people. And so at this time I want to introduce Corporal Greg Dawson. Corporal Dawson, if you would come on up please.
 Corporal Dawson's been with us for, I believe, 17 years at the Fayetteville Police Department and he served as a liaison with the Arkansas Special Olympics for about the last 11 or 12 years.
 And so he's currently serving as the vice chair for the law enforcement torch run final leg in World Games. And so he represents the city of Fayetteville on a local level, on a state level, on a national level, and an international level. And I believe in June he's going to be going to Berlin, Germany for the law enforcement torch run World Games. And so we're really proud of Corporal Dawson and what he's done for us.
 Also, really proud that we're changing the lives of those that are intellectually disabled and certainly changing the future as well. I know, Mayor, you had an opportunity to be with us out on the law enforcement torch run yesterday as we ran the torch here locally in Fayetteville.
 On behalf of the Fayetteville Police Department, it is certainly my honor and privilege and Corporal Dawson's honor and privilege to accept this award from the Arkansas Special Olympics. Thank you so much. Congratulations to you. Well done. Okay, next order of business we have tonight is consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the April 18th, 2023 and May 2nd, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve conveyance of easements to the City of Elkins across portions of the City of Federal Property located near Lake Sequoia for the installation of sewer lines. Number three, a resolution...
 A resolution to approve a cost share agreement with 11th Street Cottages LLC for the extension of an 8-inch water main near the corner of East 11th Street and South Washington Avenue with a refund in the estimated amount of $47,000.
 834 dollars and 30 cents paid by the city of himalayan to approve the project tendency in the amount of 4783.43 number four resolution authorized the city attorney to see condemnation possession of certain lands owned by kent b ditmer needed for the west water transmission main project
 number five a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to apply for an 80 20 federal aid transportation alternative program carbon reduction program safe streets for all and surface transportation block grant program attributable funds in the total amount of twenty five million eight hundred thousand dollars number six
 A resolution to authorize the application for a Federal Aviation Administration grant in the amount of $189,450 to fund 90% of the cost of an environmental assessment for the proposed taxiway e-extension project at Drakefield Airport. Number seven, a resolution to approve change order number 12 of the contract with NABHOLTS
 NAB hosts construction corporation in the amount of $2,378,349.40 for work related to the cultural arts corridor and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve 17 American Rescue Plan Act nonprofit assistance applications in the total amount of $1 million to provide economic assistance to nonprofit organizations utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds. Number nine, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement with the Arkansas United States
 Community Coalition to provide funding for two community navigators to assist immigrants in federal with with health care needs utilizing the American Rescue Plan Act funds any amount of $50,000 in approved budget just and number 10 a resolution authorize acceptance of a memorial justice
 assistance grant award addendum for the fourth judicial district drug task force in the amount of $29,087 and to authorize mayor Jordan sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds I will accept Emotion to accept the consent agenda so moved We have a motion in the second except but agenda
 as red, consent agenda as red. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Wiedeker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. OK, thank you all.
 let's go to unfinished business in ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates is recommended by the cost of service study conducted by black and beach this was left on the second reading and tabled to the may 16th
 2023 City Council meeting. Paul, you want to weigh in on this? Yes, Mayor Jordan. I'd like to again table this. I'd like to table it to July 18th, the second meeting.
 In July, that will give us the opportunity to go to the Water and Sewer Committee twice with the amended rates. We have amended the rates based on additional capital expenditures and on the change in a contract with the City of Farmington. So I'm requesting we table it to July 18th.
 We need a motion and a second. Make a motion to table it to, I'm sorry, what was the date again? July 18th. July 18th. Second. We have a motion and a second to table it to July 18th. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 let's go to new let's see everything no let's go to number two an ordinance to amend chapter 72 parking regulations of the federal city code to authorize the mayor to establish and administer
 uh regulating parking fees and established parking zones and to make technical revisions this was left on the first reading i'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second we have motion second to go to the second read jackson would you please call the roll whedeker yes verna yes lunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. And your honors, amend chapter 72 parking regulations of the Fayetteville City Code to authorize the mayor to establish and administer rules regulating parking fees and established parking zones and to make technical revisions. Okay. Justin? Thank you, Mayor, Council. I'm going to attempt to share my screen here. So just a quick recap.
 This ordinance is about giving greater flexibility, administrative flexibility for our parking regulations. Currently they're all set out in city code and any changes require an ordinance to make any alterations to those parking regulations. This ordinance is supported by the downtown Fayetteville coalition and just as a reminder, if passed nothing changes. Everything defaults to the way it is today.
 And then we would work with, if we identified any issues, we would work with impacted stakeholders to come up with the best management practices to improve the situation. For example, one issue that we've identified over the years has to do with
 parking during the day in the Dixon Street Entertainment District. So this is a picture on street, Dixon Street, and you can see all of the on-street spaces occupied there prior to 2 p.m. As a reminder, our rates in the Entertainment District are all the same. It's the same price on Dixon Street as it is to
 park off of Dixon Street, and it's free until 2 p.m. each day. So this is a typical representation of what parking looks like in the Dixon Street Entertainment District during the week prior to 2 p.m., particularly when the university is in session.
 It's a heat map. So the red means full, the green means less than 50% utilized, and the yellow and orange are somewhere in between. So we have Dixon Street, West Avenue, Walton Arts Center, the large surface lot across from the Walton Arts Center that's going to become the upper ramble, surface parking in front of Hammond Trees and the Legacy Building. So the goal here is to...
 disperse this parking utilization. We don't want everything concentrated in the core area, choking up all of the supply, making it difficult for folks to find a parking space near businesses. We want to get them over here into these green areas. This is Spring Street and come up with
 management practices that support that effort. So I think we would all agree on what the objective is, that's to make parking generally available everywhere throughout our parking system to support our businesses. And when we identify issues such as this one, there are a number of tools and options that we can consider to better manage that parking supply.
 For example, some of those considerations could be extending payment in this particular district to start prior to 2 p.m. It could be making different prices for on-street parking in the core area of Dixon Street as opposed to the areas, you know, a block or so off of Dixon Street that are less utilized.
 any number of these things or things that we haven't even thought of yet. Excuse me. And I think the the idea here is, you know, not to illustrate that we're trying to solve this particular problem today, but that
 in my opinion, greater flexibility is needed to try some of these different approaches. Maybe one of these approaches is the right one, maybe it's a combination of several of these approaches. But today, to incorporate any one of these things would require council action and maybe it's a better approach to give us a little bit greater flexibility to incorporate some of these things to better manage our supply.
 So I just wanted to kind of share that as an example, and I'll stop there and answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Justin on this? Tracy. Thank you, Justin, for providing that example. So as you know, parking is a sensitive issue. We've had two studies, and so I'm wondering what kind of strategies you all have in mind to communicate with the public and make sure that they're –
 Because now we're allowing a lot of flexibility, which I think is a good thing. But communicating that with signage and PR announcements, I think, is going to be the heavy lift. Yeah, absolutely. That's a great point, a great question, a great concern, and something that will have to be
 initiated before any change is ever made. So it starts with stakeholder outreach, right? Identifying who those stakeholders might be for whatever the particular change is. It could vary, I guess, depending on on what it is. May be changing. I would envision a dedicated web page that shows our current programs and policies and proposed changes.
 There would be at least a two-week period from, you know, when the changes are made and implemented to where they're actually enforced so that signage would be updated. Folks could get used to what the new rules are.
 And then of course we, believe it or not, use our enforcement strategy as an educational tool, right? It's not about collecting fines necessarily, it's about educating folks as to what the rules are, trying to get greater compliance and so that we can again better manage our supply. And notification to you all. I think in the ordinance there was an
 an annual report to the council on the current state of the programs. You know, I'm happy to report and talk to you all about parking as much as you're interested in hearing about it. So we can certainly do that on a more frequent basis as well.
 Thank you. I think that would be very helpful. Just a couple of follow-up questions. So, you know, it seems like you just kind of mentioned when the students are in our, when class is underway, Dixon Street gets a little bit more clogged. So I'm assuming that you'll coordinate or reach out to the U of A to inform them and get their, hopefully their cooperation and spreading the word around there.
 And then I had another question. You know, the app that you have that you download for the parking, is there a way to communicate out to those people that have the app that you're changing pricing? To a degree. We can do some targeted outreach to folks that have –
 subscribe to the app on changes that are coming. They have a whole marketing system built around that app, and educational components are certainly a part of that. So yes, that's another tool that we would have.
 Great, thank you so much. I appreciate you answering all my questions. Yes ma'am, thank you. Senator? Yes. One of the things that I think really might help people, I mean of course I agree with the education aspect of this, but if we could show them the heat map and say look, there's businesses here that don't have parking for customers because the parking's full until 2 o'clock all day every day.
 And if we could just show them an example, I think most people can relate to that, or maybe a little bit better than just saying we're raising the parking rates, because that's what people are gonna focus on if we do that, or that it's more challenging. I don't personally think it's that challenging, because I have parked in other cities, and I know you have to pay to park most of the time. But I think that heat map might really help people focus on,
 that it's not just their inconvenience that it's an inconvenience and a cost to the business community down there too okay is there any council members that are wanting to on zoom if not then we'll go on the public jordan i'm fine with um i i have no no um i have no concerns okay all right
 all right well then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this topic in the chamber
 GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL. GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN. KELLY RICH REPRESENTING THE DOWNTOWN FAYEVALE COALITION AS JUSTIN MENTIONED. I BELIEVE I SENT ALL OF YOU OUR LETTER OF SUPPORT OFFICIALLY FROM THE GROUP. AND THEN I THINK PROBABLY SOME OF OUR OTHER REPRESENTATIVES SPOKE TO YOU DIRECTLY. BUT I DID WANT TO JUST REITERATE OUR SUPPORT AND TRUTHFULLY SOME OF THE CONVERSATION THAT YOU ALL JUST HAD WITH JUSTIN AND HIS FAMILY.
 plans for outreach. I feel I'm nominating myself to be a part of that process as well, not only to connect with our stakeholders, but to help with the education and outreach to the general public. So hopefully having multiple different voices and platforms sharing the changes and updates, I think will be a benefit. So just kind of offering my support in that initiative as well. Thanks. Okay. Anybody else? Who do you have on Zoom? Okay.
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council What discussion with the council like to have or what action with the council like to? stare
 Justin, thank you so much for answering all those questions. And I appreciate the questions especially about communication. I definitely would benefit being in Ward 2 where there is a lot of the paid parking. I would love to see some reporting on that just so we can answer questions that community members might have, but also to just be in the loop on the impact that it's making. So I would love to be able to see that ongoing and continued.
 excited to see what kind of movement we can get with creating extra spaces for those businesses to have customers. Anybody else? Mr. Mayor, I thank you for this opportunity. I wholeheartedly support this move
 We can't create additional dirt. The downtown space we have available is all we have available. Historically, if you price your on-street parking, it no longer becomes long-term on-street vehicle storage. It becomes turnover parking, and the businesses in that district benefit by that turnover.
 so i wholeheartedly endorse giving you the authority with staff's guidance to make these changes to see what works for fayetteville and and i'm going to be so brief because i know we're all going to be brief tonight thank you anybody else susan okay all right so this is a ordinance it's on the second reading
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Herna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 In order to amend Chapter 72, Parking Regulations of the Fatal City Code, to authorize the mayor to establish and administer rules regulating parking fees and establish parking zones and to make technical revisions. Any final comments? Yes, Scott. I'm sorry, I just had a moment. Yeah.
 Yes, I'm quick. Yes, so I think this is very helpful as we look at having the upper ramble coming online. We need to be able to pivot quickly to adjust and assist those businesses that are right there. But I don't know if y'all tried to go to lunch lately on Dixon, so there is absolutely a challenge right now. So I think we need to allow the pivot process to be much quicker
 And so that's why we're definitely gonna be supporting this. I do have a question for Justin. Just thought of something.
 On the interface of the actual, when you put in your information, not on the app, obviously, but like if you're going to go pay for your parking, if you put in your information, can you walk us through a little bit of that process? And they choose their spot. It's just going to give them the total, right? So they're just going to pay the total. Can you walk us through that? Right. If there are, so today everything's the same price. Right.
 prices were to be different in different areas in the future, then it would be zoned. So the pay stations would be assigned a different zone or you would be able to select the zone on the screen. There would be signage right in front of you telling you which zone you're in.
 Right, so like if I put in my, not my number, the machine already knows what I'm supposed to be paying. I'm not going to underpay if I don't put in my, you know, the right number or whatever. Okay, so that's the main question I had. That's it, thank you. Anything else? Okay. There's not any other comments. Jackson, please call the roll. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Thank you all. So new business. Number one, in order to repeal Article
 26 energy improvement district number one in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the federal city code and to approve the solution of energy improvement district number one Whereas energy improvement district number one was created by the Fayetteville City Council on October 15 2013 upon the enactment of ordinance 56 24
 And whereas on November 14, 2016, the City of Fayetteville joined Energy Improvement District Number 1, and whereas the district has had limited success in advancing projects, it requires resources and time from board members and city staff to maintain the district, and other financial mechanisms and federal incentives are supporting the goals of the district.
 And whereas on December 12th of 2022, the Board of Directors of the Energy Improvement District Number 1 voted to express its support to end its operations and to recommend that the Fayetteville City Council and the Springdale City Council vote to dissolve the district,
 Whereas the district has no projects pending or expected and the Fayetteville City Council believes dissolution The district is in the best interest of the member cities and their residents at this time Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals article 26 energy improvement district number 1 in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the Fayetteville City code and
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of favorable after her by authorizes the mayor to take any other necessary action It may be required to end the operation of and dissolve energy improvement district number one. I
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Energy Improvement District Number 1 was created in 2013 by the Fayetteville City Council to manage PACE. PACE stands for Property Assessed Clean Energy. It's a financing mechanism that allows for property owners to borrow money to finance weather efficiency.
 energy efficiencies, clean energy and water efficiency projects on their property and then they repay the loan associated with those improvements on their property tax assessment. They're hence the name PACE property tax assessment clean energy.
 The district, as I mentioned, was created in 2013. Springdale joined that district in 2015. There was one project that the program did execute in 2015, but since that time there have been no projects executed and no projects in the pipeline. In September of last year, Springdale notified the City of Fayetteville that they would like to withdraw their membership from the district. And in December of last year, the Board of Directors passed a resolution
 approving the disillusion of the district. And so this ordinance before you tonight would complete dissolving that district. I'd be glad to take any questions that you might have. And what questions do we have, Peter, on this? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Now, if the council members enter on Zoom, y'all are just going to have to...
 Just move in if you have any questions or anything to say because I'm going to move on. I mean, so. Will do, Mayor. Thank you. You're very welcome. I don't want to leave anybody out. Okay. We'll take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, those present in the chamber.
 will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber do we have anybody on zoom no sir okay then i'm going to bring it back to the council uh what discussion would the council like to have or what action happens would the council like to take will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion second go to the second reading
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Herna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. And in order to repeal Article 26, Energy Improvement District Number 1 in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville City Code, and to approve the dissolution of Energy Improvement District Number 1.
 Will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. Second. Third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay.
 in order to repeal article 26 energy improvement district number one in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the fable city code and to approve the dissolution of energy improvement district number one what final comments do we have from the council
 Teresa. Just a brief one. I applaud the city for trying to implement the PACE plan, and it's really unfortunate that it couldn't be extended to residential. I hope in the future, with a different environment or maybe some other incentives from the federal or state government, that we could get this to work again. So thank you, Peter and your team, for trying to make this a go.
 All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Herna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Let's go on to number two, an ordinance to amend 92.04 of the federal code
 to conform this subsection with the just enacted Act 730 of the 94th General Assembly. Kip. Whereas when the City Council passed Ordinance 6587 and enacted Section 9204C last year to prohibit pet stores in Fayetteville from selling puppies produced by mass breeding operations that treat dogs like livestock rather than pets.
 No state law was contrary to or in conflict with this ordinance. And whereas the sponsor of House Bill 1591, which has now been passed to become Act 730 of 2023, publicly acknowledged that he sponsored this bill to invalidate and preempt the City of Fayetteville's ordinance, which enacted Section 9204C of the Fayetteville Code. And whereas since Act 730 of 2023 does indeed preempt,
 invalidate our city's former authority and power to regulate the sales of puppies obtained from mass breeding operations which are regulated in compliance with section with seven USC section 2132 and associated USDA regulations the city of Fayetteville has no choice but to amend section 9204 C to conform with the newly passed Act 730 of 2023
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 9204C of the Fayetteville Code by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement, Subsection C, as follows, quote,
 A retail pet store shall only be allowed to sell a puppy or kitten if it has been acquired from a cattery, kennel, or dealer as defined in 7 U.S.C. Section 21.32 and pursuant to the dictates of Act 730 of 2023, codified as ACA Section 4-97-109, applicability to other laws, preemption, and either later amendments thereto.
 A retail pet store may assist the Fayetteville and Washington County animal shelters and non-profit dog and cat rescue organizations by displaying animals or their photos for adoption in the pet store. And Mayor, I brought this to the City Council because after Act 730 was passed, it changed the law. The law had said previously that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or limit the application of any other law.
 That was changed into a specific preemption of our code. It said, a local government shall not pass an ordinance that prohibits a retail pet store from selling an animal that is acquired from a cattery, kennel, or dealer as a fine 7 USC 2132, and an ordinance of a local government shall be rendered invalid if it is found to be in conflict with the language set within this section.
 And so because of this change in law, which will not go in effect until July, but because of this change in the law, I feel like we need to go forward and go ahead and enact the replacement that will conform with the law that was passed by the legislature. And I'll be willing to answer any questions you might have. What questions does the council have? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic?
 Do we have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Will we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading.
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Wiedecker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. In order to amend section 9204C of the Fable Code to conform this subsection with the just enacted Act 730 of the 94th General Assembly.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 In Ordinance of Man, Section 9204C of the Fayetteville Code to conform this subsection with the just enacted Act 730 of the 94th General Assembly. Any final comments from the Council?
 I just want to thank Kit for all his work and your team for helping us to get as far as we did. And I'm sorry it's all getting undone so quickly. And at the end of the day, really, it's about the welfare of the animals. And so that's really what we care about. And whatever we can do in our power within this current way that we're going to go forward, we will continue to do and I'll continue to support that. So thank you very much for all your work. Okay. Anything else?
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bunch?
 Thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to amend the title of chapter 97 Parks and Recreation to Parks, Natural Resources, Cultural Affairs and to amend 97.086 Bending and Peddling to authorize the Director of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs
 to appoint a market organizer to coordinate vendors at the Gully Park Concert Series through December 31, 2023.
 Mr. Mayor, before I read this ordinance, it was requested by Councilmember Whittaker, which I thought a lot of consent by the rest of the councilmembers that we add an emergency clause on that. I handed out a copy of the ordinance with an emergency clause on it, so if you all would move to amend it, then I'll read that with the emergency clause. Okay. I would so move to amend to include the emergency clause. Second. All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll?
 Whitaker yes, Berna Yes, Bunch. Yes, Turk. Yes, Hertzberg Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes for yes
 Okay. Whereas section 97086 of the Fayetteville City Code allows sponsors and food trucks associated with the Gully Park Concert Series to sell food and other approved items, and whereas the Director of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs recommends approval of an amendment that will allow an appointed individual or community organization to help manage artists, makers, craftspeople to showcase and sell their work at concert series.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Chapter 97 of the Fayetteville City Code from Parks and Recreation to Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 97086, Vending and Peddling, and an Act of Replacement, Section 9706, as shown in Exhibit A, attached here to
 Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire by determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay To allow the makers market to be held at the first Gully Park concert which will occur before the general effective date under section 1015 of the Fayetteville code and
 The City Council finds that this is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents and Therefore declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval Okay, join
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Councilmembers. Thank you for considering timing on this particular ordinance change. We deeply appreciate that. Mark, if you want to show the slides, I'll walk you all just through some of these ideas for the general good of the public. Second slide, please.
 As we know, summer is fast approaching and with every summer comes our amazing Gully Park Concert Series. This will be the 27th year and I want to thank my colleague Lacey Ballard for all her hard work in organizing it. I want to thank artist Chad Mothin for his amazing turtle art this year for the series. And as you know, we bring thousands of people to Gully Park to celebrate the summer and to listen to music. So next slide please, Ma.
 So as you can read in the packet, we currently are able to approve vending for food trucks and other sponsors of the Gully Park Concert Series. And also for outside events, we are allowed to approve all kinds of vendors for the parks.
 However, hosting any kind of market event as a city is not necessarily explicitly permitted. So that's why we bring this ordinance change forward to you. This is particularly timely because as we look towards building the Upper Ramble, which has an explicitly designed market space,
 the opportunity to sort of pilot some programming where we pair arts and sort of existing audiences with some market activity will be helpful as we learn what we need to have in place for that space as we open the upper ramble. Next slide please.
 So, as you know, that is the ordinance that we've proposed. Now, one thing I do want to mention is that we've proposed that this ordinance will sunset on 12-31-2023 so that I can come back to you all with some findings over the winter and tell you a little bit more about what we might recommend for the future.
 future summers in gully park and for the ramble going forward um so and thank you again for considering timing uh that's all i have uh i'm happy to take questions from you and i know that there are members of the maker community here if you'd like to ask them questions as well okay what questions does the council have okay well then let's take some public oh no go ahead we're all right oh i'm sorry i did have one question apologize
 I was curious what the process looks like. I noticed that it said there will be an appointed individual or community organization that will work through. Is that like a request for vendors that would potentially do that or how's the selection process
 So that is certainly something that we would build toward in the future. I think for this year, there are a number of maker clubs in the community that we might just partner with directly to make those selections and manage those booths for this summer so we can have a solid pilot season. The maker, NWA Makers is a club that has, I think, over 3,000 members, but they are here and can probably speak a little bit more to
 who composes and how they choose and curate those works. I guess since we're up there, you're already here, is there any kind of, I notice there's not any kind of budget adjustment for this position. Do we feel confident that we don't need that? No, not at this time, no. Thanks. Okay, anything else?
 let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom We'll speak after that who'd like to speak to us in the chamber. Yes Hi, my name is Bo Dutton and I'm here as a co-founder of the NWA makers club one with my co-founder Shelly Mober and We are here representing
 community of over 3,500 local makers spread out across Northwest Arkansas but over a thousand of our makers live in Fayetteville and as you guys know Fayetteville has traditionally been the hub of creativity of Northwest Arkansas and so we are looking forward to hopefully partnering with you guys not even necessarily our club but as a maker community partnering with you guys to bring some of the locally grown
 makerhood art and products that the people right here are making in our community already and bring them out into a venue where we can get them face to face with the community meet the community somewhere where they're already going to be because as you guys know there are a ton of um
 ton of benefits to shopping locally and buying things that are being produced locally not only for individuals and the people producing but for the city as well, I'm sure and we have worked really hard over the last two years in our club to foster a really large community of encouraging and really incredible local makers and the opportunity to
 to partner with you guys to make your events better by giving another draw and helping out with marketing and then giving us opportunity to get our makers in front of the people that value them most and the people that live in our community, we think would be really valuable. So we're here to speak on behalf of this ordinance and we are pro-ordnance. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any questions? Yeah, if you have any questions.
 no okay thank you else like to dress mayor mayor I have a point of order do did we change our time for public speaking we have no thank you it's always been five minutes you'll have an option to right now we're under the old rules
 Yes, I'm Shelly Mober and I am co-founder of the NWMakers with Bo and we have been working on fostering an inclusive community within 75 miles of Fayetteville. We've had three solid markets, I think some of you have seen there, and we have
 a short track record of success, and we're really excited to possibly be bringing this out to Gully Park. I know personally, I was at the first Gully Park concert series and lived with our property, you know,
 the backyard was part of Gully Park. And so this is a very dear thing to me, not just involving our local art community and being inclusive of all skill levels of artists in northwest Arkansas, but I think it's really important as we grow downtown that we share some of our local art in other areas of the town. So and I'd just like to thank you for allowing us to be up here tonight and speak.
 thank you very much thank you you're good okay who else would like to address us okay do you have anybody on zoom susan no sir okay well i'm going to bring this back to the council it is an ordinance it's on the first reading uh what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to and move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading we have a motion to second to go to the second reading
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Jones? Moore? Yes.
 In order to amend the title of Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation, to Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs, and to amend Section 97.086, Vending and Peddling, to authorize the Director of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs to appoint a market organizer to coordinate vendors at the Gully Park Concert Series through December 31st of 2023. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 You got it, Jackson? The second? Mm-hmm. Okay. Would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Bork? Yes. Bork?
 an ordinance to amend title chapter 97 parks and recreation to parks natural resources and cultural affairs and to amend section 97.086 vending and peddling to authorize the director of parks natural resources and cultural affairs to appoint a market organizer to coordinate vendors at the gully park concert series through december 31st of 2023. okay what final comments do we have in council
 I just want to thank Joanna for bringing this forward. Obviously, we're always grateful to see things that are coming online to help the creative economy and build the creative economy. And I think this is, I wish we would have done this sooner, but here we are. We're doing it now. So that's awesome. It'll kind of get us going for preparation as we see the upper ramble. So I think we'll learn a lot. And I also want to thank Council Member Whitaker for putting the emergency clause because I do believe this is.
 absolutely timely to do because we don't want to miss the 28th year and the 20 so thank you that's all I've got sure yeah I also I echo the sentiments of my fellow councilmember one of the things I I know that this is you know timely and I really appreciate that the Northwest Arkansas makers have stepped up to facilitate I know they've been doing a lot of work in this area
 just because it can be so hard to really know the scope of the individuals and the makers that are out there, and it's so hard to do outreach. I just really do want to encourage us, you know, with those learnings to figure out, you know, being able to go out and to be able to include additional individuals in the future. And I have no doubt that the Northwest Arkansas makers will do all they can to make sure we're as inclusive as we can because we obviously are a growing and very diverse community. So thank you for all your efforts.
 Anything else? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Mayor we need a separate vote for the emergency clause. We need a motion a second to pass emergency clause Make a motion we Accept the emergency clause as stated Whitaker yes, Berna yes lunch. Yes, Kirk. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number four. A resolution to grant the appeal of City Council Member Teresa Turk and deny large-scale development application LST 2023-004. Teresa? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was approached by a Ward 4 resident that had some concerns about this large-scale development at South Shiloh Drive and the junction of Shiloh. And I decided to sponsor her appeal of this development. And so I would like for her to come forward and address her concerns and the information that she's been able to come forward.
 symbol thank you Martha okay now before we get into this it's ten minutes right I'm sorry what the rule is ten minutes okay man yes yes ten minutes so Teresa is giving yes I'm granting her my like ten minutes yes I'm happy to see you all I'm very pleased that so many of you were able to come on the tour of the
 I've never seen an appeal happen, so I'm not quite sure what the procedure is here. I trust that you've all read the appeal and kind of know what's there. There are briefly, in three words, there are three points, flood, traffic, and trail. I'd like to address point number two, the traffic, first because I have a simple statement that I've written out for the traffic.
 I think you all have seen exhibit C in the agenda notes. My point 2, the proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. Exhibit C was created in response to the desire by Pine Valley residents for a traffic study.
 The traffic review by the traffic engineering consultants on behalf of DDB Investments for the 177 multifamily units only accounted for 97 trips out of the proposed Shiloh Junction project within the peak morning hours. They stated that a full traffic impact analysis is recommended for any development along a neighborhood link which generates 150 or more vehicles during peak hours.
 this only being 97, therefore a full traffic analysis was not conducted. This traffic review did not take into account the existing traffic from the 164 family residential units in Pine Valley, nor the other residences and businesses on North Shiloh south of the Mount Comfort stoplight.
 full traffic impact study taking into account all vehicles is warranted for this large-scale development. So my point number one, the flood. There was
 A lot of concern expressed by many members in the neighborhood about the increased flooding possibilities from this development being right in a flood plain, especially the property on the southern half of the development area, which is where three of the four buildings are being proposed to be built as well as the biggest buildings are going to be built in that area.
 There are several FEMA codes which are applicable here. We trust that the city engineers have looked at those when they've been considering this
 We did reach out to Erin Miller. I think you all got an email this afternoon. Erin just replied back to me today, so I sent that to you. Erin is the, let me get her title correct here. She is the floodplain compliance coordinator with the Arkansas Department of Agricultural within the Natural Resources Division.
 And if you do have a chance to read that lengthy letter from Erin, that would be wonderful. Some of the things she's noted, there are some specific things that she believes the city engineer should, the floodplain administrator should be sure he checks off with the information provided by Kraft Intel.
 So I'll skip over that part, but she does have some important things that she noted. She says that the city has already noted erosion issues on Hamestring Creek, which will be exacerbated by construction, increasing the water speed by leveling the forest and placing massive amounts of fill and impermeable surfaces.
 With quick math based on the numbers and a rational method, she calculated the project will more than double the discharge volume to the creek. Mark, I think I had some, wherever you are, there you are. Yes, my floodplain pictures, those are my trail pictures. Let me get the floodplain. Okay, there it is.
 Oh, we're getting to see some. Okay, we can look at this one first. This is the floodplain in the woodland area where the buildings will be adjacent to. Next one, please.
 This is where the floodplain wash has occurred. You can see a traffic barrel that's washed down. It's quite some distance from anywhere where a traffic barrel would have been. This stretch is right behind the residences along Pine Valley. Next, please.
 This is the end feeders where several of those woodland floodplain feeders come in and this is really the middle section of the Middle Fork. It is about midway in the development
 area on the western edge and these are some really deep ravines. The one on the right there is upstream a bit. It has like a four-foot drop-off waterfall for when the water comes flooding across there. Next please. We did have these in an order. This is a flood that occurred in April of 2017. That is North Shiloh where the
 Flood came clear across, that's right in front of some of the businesses right there along just before you would get to the point west where it would turn into the Pine Valley neighborhood. Next please. Yeah, there we go. This is a video of flood in my own backyard at River Ridge.
 I'll show you a picture shortly of what that creek normally looks like. This was the December 21st, 2021 flood. I don't have any video of the flood in May last year, which was even higher than this. It was so much it washed a huge log about 14 feet long down the creek bed. That's what the creek bed normally would look like.
 And with these last general rains we've had the last week, the creek has just been comfortably full, as it should be, and has carried water off without a problem. Thank you. Another point that Aaron makes that kind of ties into our next section,
 oh um yeah well i will say one other thing she said she said on the craft and tall with their designs are skirting the floodway rather carefully but they're still floodplain impact specifically the building number two in the southwest corner appears in the floodplain
 And this proposed topography is exceptionally steep. That was the area that we toured on our tour on Friday. We walked from the trail up that embankment, and that building number two would be right on the trail with the larger building number one up on top. Mark, if we could see the trail pictures at this point, please. This is Hamstring Creek Trail.
 this is the eastern end of it on the city planning maps however which craft and hull and developers are using they're calling this stretch sycamore street there will never be a sycamore street right here it doesn't connect to anywhere it's not going to connect to anywhere we heard in the planning commission meeting that they're not planning to
 develop Shiloh all the way down to Weddington anytime soon. So this beautiful section of Hamestring Creek Trail, the eastern end, is one of the most pleasant parts of the whole trail. We have number two please.
 This is looking back toward the curve of the trail on the on Hampston Creek. These large trees that you see are in part of the removal area. This would be right where the building number two, which Erin references, would be placed. Could we have the next slide please?
 This is one of the very large trees that are along that section of trail which is in the removal, tree removal zone.
 There are two extremely large pine trees which I went out and did some DBH measures, that's diameter at breast height of a lot of the large trees on this property. And these pine trees are 23 and a half inches in diameter and you can see they're enormous. There are two of them. They will be removed. They're in the tree removal section. Time. Time. Ten minutes. Oh, it's time? Yes. Oh, well.
 And there's the beautiful trail. I didn't see a timer, so I didn't know how much time I had. Well, 10 minutes. It's been 10 minutes. Okay. Yeah. Thank you so much, Martha, for your presentation, for that information. Does anybody have any questions? Okay. Okay. I had a good bit more to say about the trail section and the climate action plan and how the trail would tie in with that. 10 minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 All right. So now, Mayor, the developer gets ten minutes to respond. Yes. Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Allie Carr with Kraft and Toll on behalf of the developer. I wanted to take a minute before I get started to introduce some members that I have behind me that are here as well. They won't necessarily take part in the presentation, but will be available for any questions afterwards.
 I have Mr. Brad Payne here with DDB Investments here in Fayetteville. He is the developer. I have Mr. Robert Rhodes with Hall Eastdale on behalf of the developer as well, and Mr. Nathan Becknell with Traffic Engineering Consultants who he can speak to the traffic study.
 So just overview of the project, I know that you have a plethora of information in front of you, but the Junction of Shiloh is a multifamily development that we have submitted, that we had submitted to the Planning Commission for approval. The property is just under 12 acres, so 11.7 acres. We are proposing 177 units across four buildings.
 So the zoning that we are a part of is primarily CS community services with a little portion of RMF 24. And so what's unique about these zoning districts is that we have built two zones. And so we are required to put our buildings as close to the right away where feasible that we can. And so.
 Like was mentioned, we are improving Shiloh Drive, the length of our property. It's just shy of a thousand feet, so they are building a full road. It's a two-lane asphalt road with curb and gutter, storm sewer improvements, and a 12-foot trail. That will be the extent of the property from where Shiloh stubs out currently to the very south, and then there is Paper Right-of-Way already owned by the City of Fayetteville on the south side of our property where the trail is located.
 We are also proposing with this development to dedicate approximately 1.7 acres of parkland to the City of Fayetteville. That's located in the southwest corner of the property. There is already parkland there that's dedicated to the City of Fayetteville, so this will just extend the property there and provide a good buffer between this development and the adjacent neighboring properties.
 um a part of this zoning as well we are meeting the tree preservation requirements so there's a 20 minimum tree preservation requirement and we are meeting that we have submitted a tree preservation plan we did a tree survey our landscape architects went on site and they classified all the trees and their significance how big they are and we have shown that on the plan as well as a planting plan that has been reviewed and approved by urban forestry
 wanted to speak so we're meeting all the city design standards except the three variances that were approved by the Planning Commission and all those three variances are based on we have to request them based on site hardships so the first one is there's a required to have an intersection on both the east and west side of a neighborhood link within
 1,300 feet. And so we are not providing an intersection to the east since we are bordered by I-49. So a street connection wouldn't be warranted out on the highway. The second variance is for a, we're requesting the variance from the primary entrance.
 of a building that is adjacent to a public street. And so on the west side of the property, there's a 36 inch water line. So that's the transmission line for the city of Fayetteville and the utilities director, Corey Granderson, provided a memo when we went to planning commission that he did not want any fill
 over that water line. And so there's not even a sidewalk on that side of the road. We are limiting all connections over that water line to preserve the integrity of the city's utilities. And so essentially if we had a door on those sides of the buildings, the door would go nowhere. So it'd be a door to nowhere. And so that was the reason for that variance. And then the third one was for an increase in velocities within the floodplain.
 So we worked extensively with Allen Pugh. We provided a flood study. So we looked at the hydraulics. We provided our own flows that we studied for the entire 130-acre drainage basin. And then we provided a HECRAS model, which is approved. It's an approved modeling software by the city of Fayetteville and also FEMA. And we provided that to Allen Pugh, went through many rounds of review. We were able to eliminate any base flood. So there's no base flood increase. We are not increasing any flows.
 but we are increasing velocity slightly, and by slightly I mean by less than one foot per second. And all of our velocities within the project are under six feet per second, which is considered erosive. And so everything within the property is non-erosive and it is contained, the increases are contained on our subject property or the Kimball property to the north, which we have a letter of concurrence that they have stated that they are aware of the proposed increases and are fine with that.
 So that's kind of a broad overview of what we took to the Planning Commission. All of those variances were approved and then I'd like to quickly speak on each of the appeal issues. So I'll start in the order that they were presented.
 The adjacent property owners had quoted that the age of the FEMA info might not accurately represent what is going on in this area and requested an additional study be done. And so that study was prepared by Kraft and Toll. So we have two certified floodplain managers on staff who reviewed or who
 produced and reviewed that model, which was then sent to your floodplain administrator. And like I said, we went through multiple rounds of review with Allen and were able to, like I said, eliminate all rises.
 no increase in flows and the only increase is in those velocities. And the increase in velocities is pretty standard when you see a road improvement. And so Shiloh Drive is on your master street plan. And so at some point, whether the city was to improve that or a private developer, there has to be a creek crossing.
 And naturally, when you narrow down your area, you're going to increase your velocity because as the area gets smaller, you're pushing more water through a smaller area. So naturally, you're going to have an increase in velocity. But what we have done is we've proposed a bottomless culvert, which is going it's a low impact design, which will maintain the.
 existing channel geometry and the natural, what we call the Manning's Inn or the roughness of the channel, which will allow more dissipation of that water, so rather than using a box culvert with concrete on the bottom, water can move quickly over concrete, we're utilizing the natural stream bank, which will allow that water to slow down and return to its natural state once it gets through our crossing.
 And then they also quoted the traffic study. I know that in your agenda packets you were provided the memo provided by Nathan Becknell. And so the city of Fayetteville did not require the traffic study in the beginning, but we heard the concerns of the adjacent property owners and went ahead and engaged Mr. Becknell to perform that study. And he is available for any questions you might have on that. But as was pointed out, there was no needed improvements to the street beyond what we are doing at Shallow Drive. It all exits out.
 at the intersection of Shiloh and Mount Comfort at a signalized intersection. So he's available if you have any questions specific to that. And then the third comment was about the impact to Hamstring Trail.
 So we are enhancing Hamstring Trail by providing that connection. We are providing more accessibility to the trail. We're now at dead ends. We are providing an entire loop through our development that's going to be able to be used by current trail users and then also residents of this development. It will put more buildings fronting the trail. We do, we're within the build two zone. We have about 25 feet buffer from the building to the trail. But then we're
 having more eyes on the trail, having more residents there, promotes safety of having more visibility of that area. And then overall, just a higher use of being able to not only just in there, but also route up north through Shiloh. And then we worked with city staff,
 with engineering and we worked with Matt Mihaljevic to decide which side of the street the trail would be and what the geometry would look like through that. So we went through multiple iterations to land on the right of way that you see today in our plans.
 and then quickly i know that you all saw the email today from miss miller i know that alan was able to respond as well on behalf of the city of fayetteville i don't know if everybody was able to look at that but some things i wanted to point out was a lot of these concerns have already been met so we've already provided a heckras model we've already confirmed with fema that a clomer is not required we will go through all the proper permitting with the grading permit to make sure that we have the state permits with
 the state that we have the proper storm water that all that will come on the permitting side and something that the city of fable will require of all construction activities throughout the city not just this one one other thing that i wanted to mention was there was some citation of hamstring creek and the erosion on that so our project is on the middle fork of hamstring creek
 It's approximately 130 acres of drainage, but the Hamestrand Creek is much larger. It's 10 times as large. It has just over a thousand acres draining to it, which we are not impacting. All of our water will be sent to the middle fork of Hamestrand Creek, and we're meeting all the drainage criteria manual requirements
 for the city of Fayetteville on that side. So I just wanted to clear that up and make sure that it's understood that we are not impacting Hamstring Creek and that is not something that we, all of our water will be routed to the north, but it will not increase any flows on the middle fork of Hamstring Creek. Some other, one other large item that Ms. Miller brought up was
 that they were concerned with the topography being steep and making sure we were above base flood elevations and providing adequate freeboard and that has all been addressed as well. So we're providing the amount of freeboard that's required by the city of Fayetteville and all of that will be further reviewed within the grading permit. But just wanted to highlight that all of those have already been reviewed and submitted to the city of Fayetteville. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Mayor, I think the staff also gets a chance to. Yes, I got it. Mayor, I'd like to leave that up to the City Council. I think both the applicant and the applicant covered a lot of the issues I would normally go over. I'm happy to jump into some of the specifics of why staff supported the variances and why the Planning Commission supported the variances.
 and also to provide some visuals perhaps of what the city council is looking at i think the most prominent of which may be to address some of the confusion that we've heard from the public regarding hamstring trail specifically staff heard some comments and concerns the trail itself was being removed as part of this project what you can see here is a site plan that craft and toll provided the city for review
 I've taken the liberty of adding or highlighting the trail, which you can see in the bold red line coming in from the left-hand side before it goes southward. It does cross this property where an easement was dedicated or donated to the city so that it could be used to cross here. That area, that big block of green you see that it crosses is that area of parkland dedication that Ms. Carr was referencing that's intended for dedication to be contiguous with other city parkland in the area.
 Otherwise, I think Ms. Carr did cover the variances pretty thoroughly. Staff did support particularly the block link variance. If you're not familiar with that, when public streets are being built in Fayetteville, there's an expectation for connectivity purposes that there'll be intersections at a regular interval
 Staff found that with the interstate to the east not representing a viable opportunity for connectivity and the existing development to the west that it was well worth supporting. While staff was not able to support the request to not provide the entrance
 on the buildings that are on the west side of Shiloh. The Planning Commission ultimately felt that the issues that Ms. Carr described, that there wouldn't be a sidewalk, that the Utility Department didn't want any of that filler and pervious surface over their water line to be justification and adequate hardship for them to ultimately approve it.
 And of course finally, I don't think I could explain the the flood hazard prevention variance that was granted better than the the projects engineer but it is in essence a Variance that was necessitated because the city's master street plan includes the Shiloh Street connection Which for those of you not familiar with it? I did want to highlight what that looks like and why it is on our master street plan what you're looking at here is
 Basically the overview of this portion of Fayetteville. You can see Ruppel Road as the line, the thick red line on the left-hand side, and Porter is the yellow line on the right side.
 If and when the Shiloh connection is made, it will be the only connection for almost a mile and a third between those two locations and represents a connection that we consider to be very valuable and has been part of our master street plan for many, many years. And we feel this project represents an important step in that regard. That's not to say it's justification or rationale for the variance necessarily, but in reviewing it, we did find that the constraints resulting from a stream crossing did represent an appropriate hardship.
 for staff to support and the planning commission ultimately agreed. All told, the planning commission did support all three variances and approved the project overall. It was a split vote of six to two.
 The two dissenting commissioners seemed to focus mostly on concerns about traffic as a prominent concern. There were members of the public heard at several stages along the way. This item did go, of course, to the Subdivision Committee and Planning Commission. A lot of what those two bodies heard and what the council members who attended the tour heard were similar. There were concerns about flooding or exacerbation of flooding.
 the potential for adverse traffic impacts. And pausing on that one for a moment and to address the traffic analysis. Traffic staff had found based on our review of the unit count that there was not a traffic concern initially and that's why a more involved traffic study was not required with the development.
 It is a signalized intersection at Shiloh that is generally under capacity. We did not feel that it warranted any additional analysis. The only areas that are currently using that signal from this portion of the city are this subdivision from which the applicant lives and the businesses immediately to the north.
 I believe that's a fair summary of Staffs items apologize doing a bit out of order and there may have been something that I breezed over I'm happy to take any questions the council house. However, thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for? Teresa or the applicant or staff? I
 I was going to ask Jonathan, Jonathan what is the plan to connect up to the southern part, so from Shiloh all the way through to that street to the south? Is there a timeline because we are going to add quite a bit to that if it's approved and it seems like we always look at connectivity when we're trying to decide about these sorts
 That's a good question, and if I may, I'll pull up actually the exhibit I just had up. There was a discussion during the most recent transportation bond about the potential for funding one of two connections, the Shiloh one being the most prominent, the other one you can see here in blue, which would connect Salem,
 There was a lot of internal back and forth on which would be prioritized, and ultimately no decision was made on either as the prioritization of the bond projects were worked out. It was determined that one or the other was still important, but not about which would be prioritized. But if I could, I'd like to defer to our Public Works Director, Chris Brown, on if there is a timing on that, but I don't believe it's imminent for the city to complete Shiloh at this time.
 Yeah, so that was one of the projects that was on our list of potential bond projects for this 2019 bond program. It was sort of waiting in the wings.
 a runner-up a what honorable mention whatever you want to call it if we could have gotten projects completed um under a certain amount then uh there might have been a potential to fund that uh of course we've seen prices increase and so we've not been able to do as many projects as we had wanted to but it was identified as a priority and i think it still is a is a priority
 As additional funding becomes available, it would be something we would look at. So right now you don't have enough funding to implement this connector and do you have a timeline at all? We're talking 10 years, 15 years?
 Yeah, I think it would be something that would be in a future bond program. That bond program is really kind of funding dependent, you know, as soon as we pay off this existing bond program. I'm not the expert on how that funding is going and getting those bonds repaid, but I would say probably within the next five to seven years there would be additional funding and then it would be considered at that time.
 what other questions do we have well then we'll take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this first on this topic now now you had your turn no you don't get another turn
 I'm Renee and I've lived on Pine Valley for over almost 20 years, yeah, for a long time. And we own our place there and it's been a very nice place to have. I am concerned very much about the traffic and turning left out onto the Shiloh from Point West.
 uh because no one's mentioned that i know they mentioned there's 177 units but if there's two people per unit and there's two cars per unit then that's a lot more than what they said in their travel or their their um their road study and traffic study um also i wanted to read another point um i'm also let me go ahead and say that i'm concerned also about the flooding um i'm
 Because those were recent pictures and we've been having very extreme weather I'm sure everybody would agree with that if they've been watching the weather or been involved in the weather and out in it and in The rain, but we've had a lot of inches of rainfall at one time And so that brings up the flooding That's the flooding on the creeks on the area and then also on the roads and
 I'll also say that as Fayetteville develops and implements a climate action plan with its focus on nature-based solutions, that this eastern end of the Hamstring Creek Trail will be included as an example of how to mitigate climate change, and that's a high degree of ecosystem resilience and biodiversity. We'll serve as a neighborhood classroom for learning about interdependence of humans, wildlife, creeks, woodlands,
 without development up to its edge you know where's the green space we actually asked why they wouldn't maybe cut down the number of units or move the units back a little bit away from all of this and they said I heard someone say that it was they told me that it was in the flood zone they were talking and they said well it it'll be our stuff will be in the flood zone so I'm like well if their stuff is in the flood zone then why are they
 you know wanting us to to go ahead and not consider the flood zone downstream so um that's all i have to say okay thank you who else would like to address us i might say if y'all want to speak on this topic you might want to start to queue up a little bit or maybe not good evening mr mayor council
 Thank you for giving me a chance to speak. I want to make it clear. Oh, my name is Seth Mims, Specialized Real Estate Group, 200 West Center, Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 I am in no way affiliated with this project. I've never even met the developer from St. Louis nor any of his team members I'm just here because I'm very aware of this big problem We're having in our community of a housing crisis If you know anyone who's tried to find rental or for sale housing recently, then you understand how bad it is But if you don't know somebody who's been looking like very recently you don't understand and
 It's gotten so out of hand that the supply shortage has gotten so far ahead of us that I don't know if we'll ever be able to catch up. And the problem with that is that means that our city loses a lot of good people, good businesses to other cities when they could have been here. If we don't have housing to house the necessary workers to make these businesses function, then we should expect a lot of businesses and people to choose other communities.
 I have a friend who recently had to move his mother up here to Fayetteville, and he still can't find housing for her. So it looks like she's going to wind up in Farmington or Prairie Grove, which causes more traffic congestion, more carbon emissions, less good family time, harder for grandkids to see mom, when more housing would be a huge problem.
 Huge help with little issues like that. So since I'm in the housing industry, I get a lot of calls I really do a lot of people saying Seth Can you please help my so-and-so my friend's kid my friends cause all kinds of scenarios? We need housing and we can't find it. Is there anything you can do, please? Surely you can do something but there's nothing that I can do because there's just not enough supply. So Again, I'm not here to speak for this project. I
 But I am here to say that we need housing bad That's a good location for housing and it appears that the developer is willing to build a bridge over hamstring Creek Is that what I heard? No, okay. I take that part back But they're there well their road improvements are going to facilitate The connection to shallow at some point and on their dime instead of the city's so I just I would hate to see this appeal
 the decision on it get tabled or further push good housing that's already been approved by staff, by Planning Commission, unnecessarily when we all know we really, really need it. So again, I don't have a dog in the hunt, but I do love Fayetteville.
 We're having a major housing crisis. I think it's worse here than any other city in northwest Arkansas, and why would we not let this project move forward? It's on the trail. I just heard the traffic study said there's not an issue or not even enough issue to justify a traffic study. So I implore you to try and keep this thing moving tonight. Thank you for your time. I'll be here if you have any questions. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, well let's move to Zoom. Nobody's on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, well then we will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What discussion would the council act have or what action would the council act take? Mayor, I'd like to ask that Alan Pugh come forward and I just have a couple of questions for him.
 Hi, Ellen. Thanks so much for your timely response to Ms. Miller's comments.
 So just a couple of questions here. Is the City of Fayetteville required to go through ANRC? She's the floodplain compliance coordinator. Is that part of our process, our review process? On a typical review process, no. ANRC has responsible charge for compliance of all municipalities in the state of Arkansas, so they do
 community visits and things like that to make sure that we're in compliance. So certainly we do work with them, but not directly on a development level like is shown here.
 but it sounds like she has some serious concerns about this and so um if her concerns are not addressed i mean it sounds like many of them are from from your response how does that affect our relationship in the future with anrc because they do give us quite a bit of funding sure um and certainly we want we certainly don't want to dismiss their comments or their concerns and i don't think that we have it sounds uh based on the review that she may have had inaccurate or incomplete information
 missing some of the things that Crafton and Toll had done, as Allie Carr pointed out earlier, with the most recent studies and things like that. So we will continue to work with them. If they have continued concerns, certainly we'll try to address those. I have not received a response to our response just yet, but we will anxiously await that, and if there are additional things that we need to address, we will work towards those.
 Excellent. Okay. Next question. How many hundred-year floods have we had in the last 10 years in Fayetteville? It's a little bit of a tough question. That's why I think we've talked about it, Council, quite a bit. Number one, it depends on where you're at, even where you're at within the city of Fayetteville.
 But in my tenure at the City of Fayetteville since 2014, I can speak to those certainly. In April 2017, areas of town, especially the north and west of pretty much this intersection of Weddington and 49, we can say with some confidence that you experienced a 100-year event. Some people experienced more than a 100-year event. It kinda got worse the further north and west you got, especially up into Springdale and Rogers and Bentonville.
 That one was one in May of 22. We did experience quite a large storm event in certain areas of town. We did not find that the precipitation estimates that we got really bore out a 100 year event, if you will. We did see some similar damage scenarios to 2017, so we do feel like that some of those areas did get, call it a microburst or whatever we would like to call it, but some of the localized areas of Fayetteville probably did see that type of event.
 May 2011 was not at the city of Fayetteville then, but I do understand from what I've read that most likely in certain areas of town might have had something to that level again. So that's three events that if they're not a 100-year flood, they're really close to it within the last 10, 12 years.
 And wasn't that area over where we're kind of talking about this Hamstring Creek area really impacted greatly by these rain events? So we do have a repetitive loss area of Hamstring Creek. That area is mostly upstream of I-49.
 I think we have that on our GIS available if you'd like to take a look at that further, if anyone would like to. But I mean, to answer the question, yes, directly upstream of this, there is a repetitive loss area on Hamestream Creek. We did have some structure flooding on the middle fork of Hamestream Creek, mostly, again, upstream of I-49 that was reported to the city of Fayetteville.
 and then you're undergoing a lot of um redirecting of the traffic and expansion for i-49 and that sort of thing right in that area rdot does have a project going um i might defer to chris if you've got specific questions about that but um certainly they are they are doing some projects on there today so um i have one more question i think just for you um
 Is there a reason why the developer wasn't required to add another culvert to reduce the velocity and the potential erosion? She kind of characterized the more you winnow down the water flow, the higher velocity, but it would seem like that would be solved by adding another culvert to that.
 And that's, I think we talked about that a little bit on our tour. You know, it's not uncommon, as Allie pointed out, for these crossings to cause at least a slight increase in velocities. Many times we look at those and regardless of the capacity that you add, just based on the fact that you're filling in portions of the floodplain, those velocity increases are significant.
 are hard to get out of the program, if you will. You know, we could certainly ask them to add a culvert just to see what that does. But when staff looked at it, we understanding that the nuances of adding a crossing across the creek there and again,
 having some fill and forcing that water through a culvert, we weren't surprised to see at least a little bit of increase in velocity as that remained well below what we would consider erosive. And with the other improvements proposed, we were in support of that particular variance. So.
 but it's something that could be modeled, that could be looked at. It would seem like if you didn't have to ask for a variance and you could solve it with an additional culvert, that would seem to be the way to go. We could, but I would say again that just given the slight increase, it's really not uncommon to see that. We could analyze it.
 continually on infinite numbers of scenarios and still have some sort of slight increase in velocity or an issue like that. So at some point I think it's not, let's call it fair to the applicant to just continue study after study after study after study when we anticipate that it's gonna bear out the same thing. We certainly don't want them to incur undue costs.
 associated with those engineering studies. But I might leave that question up to the applicant if they would be willing to continue that study. I don't certainly don't want to speak to them, but as it stands today, they do have an approved variance for that, certainly unless city council feels differently.
 I said I had one last question, but I've got one more. So based on, you know, we've had repetitive loss. Obviously, the city council voted to purchase the West End Apartments because that was a repetitive loss area. You know, looking on the map, the AE region, the FEMA map, boy, they're right up next to the line there.
 And as it stands right now, would the owners be required to purchase flood insurance? Because they are right up on the line. I will preface all of this by saying I'm not an insurance expert. And there are nuances of insurance that I certainly don't know about. But that said, FEMA does have a requirement that if a structure is located within a floodplain or a Zone A, Zone E floodplain, if it is...
 financed through a publicly insured or federally backed bank, they do require that structure to carry flood insurance. So there are nuances where you could own a building outright, where if you're in the floodplain you're not federally required to carry flood insurance, but in general the buildings that they have shown on their site plans, at least as the floodplain is mapped today, are outside of that floodplain area. I don't anticipate that they would be federally required to carry flood insurance. We have had some local lenders
 regardless of what federal requirements are require flood insurance on those and i would certainly defer to the applicant on if they've had those conversations with their lender so okay thank you thank you very much for answering my questions thank you don't go away alan if if you don't mind i i see the project is using or proposing to use permeable pavers
 But I didn't read anything about a volume of water storage beneath the parking Is that a part of the design or no just the previous papers themselves? It is a part of the design and I don't review that particular piece So I may defer to the applicant for more details But my understanding and discussions with them is its previous paving with storage underneath that previous paving to meet our detention and water quality Requirements. Okay. Thank you
 And Alan, I know there's a little debate on whether our standards are adequate or not, but as we sit here today, they have met all of the standards that are required.
 or passage of the project for drainage and such. From the details that we have today, and I was speaking specifically towards the floodplain piece, they have provided the required floodplain analysis and things that would get them through even potentially a grading permit application at this point. So they have done quite a bit of detailed study. I can't speak to if they've completed...
 Typically, a project would not have completed a full drainage study at this point. There would be some details and things to work out, but certainly I would defer to the applicant. I've not reviewed those in detail. Anything else? Okay. Mayor, if I could ask the applicant to come forward, I'd appreciate that. Yes. I'm sorry. I misspoke. Not you, Martha. I meant the developer. I'm sorry. I misspoke. It's usually the other way around.
 Thank you for coming back. So is that, has that been part of your consideration to add another culvert? Have you modeled that? Have you thought about that? It just would seem that that would be so much easier than requesting a variance for the velocity. Yes, ma'am. So as Alan mentioned, we have gone through multiple iterations of this project.
 as to what we began with was a traditional box culvert with a concrete bottom that then transitioned to a bottomless culvert, that then transitioned to a bottomless culvert plus overflow culverts. We have looked at this model multiple different ways and the reality of it is that the nuances within the model, sometimes when you add an additional culvert, it actually makes negative impacts in other ways.
 And so what we landed on was the ideal situation for both the developer with our review team and then also the city of Fayetteville. So we were able to reduce any base flood elevation increase but then we were able to, the velocities that we were left with were, as Alan mentioned, within a suitable range of an increase. And so yes, we've looked at this multiple ways and looked at different size culverts, repositioning things to make sure that we had the most ideal scenario going forward for everybody.
 Okay, and I don't know if you can answer this or not, but have you looked at are you going to be required to carry flood insurance? That's what I have not looked at either, but as Alan mentioned that'll be on the insurance agent as well So we will we'll go through the lumber process on the back end of this project I believe that'll be a condition on the grading permit I mean so we'll submit the full model that we've created at the end of construction to FEMA and so that will be
 incorporate all the changes that we've made on site to the floodplain map that you currently see today. And so all of that will go into account with the developer's lender and insurance agent.
 Final question, are you concerned that we've had almost three 100-year floods within the last 11 or 12 years? And if they're not 100-year floods, they're very close by. And so I know that you're required to model to the 100-year floodplain, but it would seem that you would want a buffer, a level of insurance there for your investment. Yes, ma'am. So one part of the city of Fayetteville code that you're probably aware of is the freeboard requirement.
 So FEMA will allow any structure to be built at the base flood elevation. But the city of Fayetteville has adopted an ordinance that you have to provide freeboard from that base flood elevation. So our buildings are actually sitting above those base flood elevations of the 100-year floodplain. And so not only are we far enough off the floodplain, but we are also elevated to provide a level of safety. And I think that's just one foot, right? No, I believe it's two feet. It's two? Yes. Okay, thank you.
 Okay, super. I don't have any more questions. Thanks so much.
 Yes, I don't have any questions for anybody, but I would like to say that, you know, to remind everyone on council that, you know, flood insurance can change over time. Flood zones can change over time. And so you might have a house that is built or a structure that is built, and at the time it's built, it's not in a flood zone, and then years later it might.
 that flood zone is is Modified it might end up in the flood zone. So the the insurance thing That's not really whether they have to have insurance or not I don't think that's really part of what we ought to be looking at here I think we ought to focus on the requirements from the city Have they met the requirements for the city and not try to add in anything that is not part of our process? I
 the insurance will be determined by, if a lender looks at it and says, well, this is in a flood zone and you have to have flood insurance, then the developer or the owner of the property will be required to have that. So I think it's kind of,
 Let's just focus on what we are supposed to be looking at and not whether it might require flood insurance or not because that can also change. There are houses that weren't in flood zones and then 20 years later they were and they needed to modify their insurance. So thank you.
 I have two questions, one for Jonathan and it's trying to address some of the concerns. One is they were talking about the trail setbacks and on the tour the other day, I believe the developer said that the setbacks of the buildings were directed by city code.
 And is that accurate and is the applicant following that directive by the city? That's correct. Setbacks are determined from property lines and it depends on how the property is oriented towards right of way. And that could be unbuilt right of way or existing right of way. I believe the specific area in question or concern was the reference Sycamore Street, undeveloped Sycamore Street right of way for reference purposes running along the south side of the property.
 And from that right away, albeit unbuilt, a built-to zone is established because that would be a front property line as a street right away. And so that is one reason the building is located at that spot. Also, of course, if you look at the floodplain maps in the area, that's also an area where a building can be placed and not in the floodplain. Okay. Thank you. And the second thing, and I see Chief sitting back there, and I just wanted to ask us one of the concerns.
 was traffic and I wanted to see if maybe the chief had any input on whether that was viewed as a concern by the police department. Well, I think the traffic flow was good up until May 1st when we put about 205 officers over at that location.
 No, I'm just all kidding aside. You know, I think traffic patterns have been good in that area. Shamefully, I haven't studied this large-scale development, but I know that with the traffic light that Jonathan mentioned earlier there on Shiloh,
 the traffic flows pretty smoothly there to the north and south and east and west out of that particular location. Certainly there's times in the morning and certainly times in the evening when we do have some congestion that's occurring right there at 49. But I think that some of the infrastructure that's being worked on
 particularly in Weddington and on the Stephen Carr Memorial that's being finished up is going to help alleviate that as well but more importantly when it's relating to the accidents in that area I'm not familiar with any accident issues that we're experiencing right there
 you know, in that particular area. Certainly south of that, if you're looking at the Weddington intersections there at I-49, we're certainly experiencing some issues there that we hope will be alleviated by those infrastructure improvements that are occurring there as well. You're welcome. Okay. And so, it's a resolution here. Are we, somebody gonna? So if we move to deny the appeal,
 Okay, there is a resolution in front of you and the resolution would basically grant the appeal and determine the large-scale development submitted for this is denied so if to Affirm what the Planning Commission has done you would vote against this resolution This resolution will reverse the Planning Commission's decision to grant the large-scale development and so and the reason it's worded like that is that I
 whoever appeals has the burden because they've already been approved by the Planning Commission. And so in order to reverse the Planning Commission takes five affirmative votes. So that's why the resolution is worded in such a way to grant the appeal and to deny large-scale development. So someone needs to make a motion to pass a resolution and if you want to sustain what the Planning Commission did then you will vote no. Right. Commissioner?
 I looked at all the data, the information, and I am going to support the appeal. And I'll tell you why. I am extremely concerned about the flooding hazard and potential there that the developer is building right up to the very line of that flood zone area AE. We've had three 100-year floods in the last 12 or 13 years.
 Have you looked at the Pacific Northwest, what's going on up there? We are in the throes of climate change, and we've been pretty lucky in some ways so far. But our luck's going to run out here. And we've also spent quite a bit of money recently purchasing those West End apartments,
 We've purchased other land before that. And Sarah's right. Flooding zones do change. Absolutely, they do. But oftentimes, a lot of that is because of upstream development and impervious surface. And I do want to commend the developer for using pervious pavers and pervious surfaces. I think that that's great. That's a low-impact development improvement. So I want to commend you on that design. Thank you.
 but the concerns about flooding overshadow the LID. So thank you, and I appreciate everybody's comments and information tonight. Mr. Mayor, I probably need to give advice to the city council on what kind of discretion you have when it's a large-scale development appeal. Far less than what you would have if it was zoning. In zoning, you're allowed a lot of discretion,
 In a large-scale development, you are not. What you have to find, there are six factors that are set forth in your code that you have adopted that you must use one of those six factors in order to be able to deny a large-scale development because what the Supreme Court has said is that a large-scale development that meets the minimum standards of the city must be approved as a matter of law.
 so that you can have a large-scale development that everybody in this room thinks is, boy, that's just, I don't like it. It's not very nice. It's ugly. Maybe it's not built where I want it built. But if it doesn't violate the city code or one of the other requirements, which I think Jonathan probably has looked at,
 or compound or create a dangerous traffic situation, which means that the amount of wrecks and personal injury is unreasonably large at this site, and that also requires some evidence to show that, then the City Council is really not empowered to use your own discretion to see whether or not you like this large-scale development. That's why
 When I have given you advice when you first got elected and became a city council member, I said if you want to exercise your discretion, you do that at the zoning. Because with zoning you have considerable discretion. But once the land is properly zoned, and once the developer has followed all of the minimum requirements that you all have set forth in the Unified Development Code,
 then it must be approved as a matter of law. So I just wanted to make sure that you remember that these are two very different things and they're two different tests that you must look at in order to determine whether or not to grant this appeal.
 So in consideration for Kit's comments, Jonathan, has this project met all the conditions of the city's variances, requests, and approvals and such? That is the Planning Commission's determination, yes. The three exceptions were the variances that they found that there was adequate hardship to support exception to the ordinance. That is true. Variances you still have some discretion with, but for the project itself,
 You do not. Those could be two different decisions, but when it comes to the project you don't have that kind of discretion. So in order to bring things to a vote we need to move to approve the appeal, is that correct? Mr. Williams, your mic's not on. Your mic's not on. Your mic's on. Your mic.
 uh basically you would move to approve the resolution because the resolution does grant the appeal and overturns the planning commission's decision i will be approved the resolution second all right we have a motion second to approve the resolution everybody ready okay jackson would you please call the road peter no partner
 I just want to make sure. If we approve this on this vote, if a yes vote on this is just moving it to a vote, is that correct? No. No. It will grant the appeal, and the planning commission decision will be reversed. No. Bunch. No. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. No. Harvey. No. Jones. No. Moore. No.
 Okay, thank you all. The appeal fails. Well, let's move along to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition, RZN-106,
 2023-010 located at 1746 4th O'Wire Road in Ward 3 for approximately 1.06 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in East Fayetteville in Ward 3. It's about halfway between Township to the north and Mission to the south on the east side of Old Wire Road. As you can see on the aerial image here, it's most specifically on the northeast corner of Old Wire Road and Adelaide Lane, which is the main entrance to the Cottages of Old Wire subdivision immediately to the east.
 The site is largely level. It's characterized by a single family home built in the 1970s that fronts Old Wire Road and also, as you can see here, the areas of blue, a floodplain associated with the Neocatska Creek that runs immediately west of the property and under Old Wire Road at that location.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation. As you can see here, all the property to the east and southeast was rezoned to NC several years ago as a part of the subdivisions development for the cottages of Old Wire. This includes a strip of land immediately south of this one in between Adelaide Lane and the property in question.
 When evaluating the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did find it to be compatible. Both the NC and RSF4 zoning districts permit single family zones exclusively. They only also allow accessory structures like sheds and accessory dwelling units can be built in association with those houses.
 From a land use standpoint, staff found the request to also be consistent with our adopted goals and feature land use map. It does have a moderate infill rating of about five to six for the property, and we felt that it's appropriate to only rezone it to NC at this location. What we would consider an incremental change, again, just single family houses next to single family houses.
 Some of the infill ratings correspond with the proximity to fire response, which is up at Crossover and Old Wire. There's water and sewer nearby. The trail, immediately along Old Wire Road, would run immediately on the frontage of this property. The Clarence Craft Park is immediately to the south, which was expanded with the Cottages of Old Wire parkland dedication several years ago. And also Root Elementary is to the southeast.
 When it comes to issues, I already mentioned perhaps the most prominent one, which is the existing floodplain on the western half of the property and a small corner of which is also floodway. Staff is confident that our city's floodplain standards and streamside protection standards are enough to protect the property and frankly what we imagine is that it may be developed something similar to what you can see the subdivision to the south.
 This property is in the, I guess, neon blue outline, and the cottage is an old wire south of Adelaide. It was developed in deference to the floodway and floodplain in this area for exactly that reason. Rezoning this property would afford the subdivision to continue westward along the north side of the street.
 Other issues include that the tree preservation requirements between RSF4 and NC does decrease by 5% And we did receive some public comment on this request it is in favor of the proposal from the neighboring POA, HOA to the east to a
 met in regards to it and I believe they had a 35% favorable opinion. I'm not sure how their POA is structured if that means there was a vote or what but they did come out and speak at the Planning Commission in favor of the request and
 Staff ultimately recommends in favor of it. The Planning Commission felt similarly forwarding it to the City Council unanimously with one Commission member recusing. Their comments were generally in regards to the compatibility of the request with the surrounding neighborhood and housing there. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the Council has and Mary McGettrick is here as the applicant for the item in person. Mayor, thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 Sorry. Good evening. Hi, my name is Mary McGettrick. I'm with Buffington Homes. And I don't have much to add to what Mr. Kurth just kind of laid out for you, but I will say that, you know, the proposed NC zoning at this location allows for a slightly narrower lot than would be allowed under the existing RSF4 zoning. We do plan on providing two additional infill units should this rezone be approved in the location that Mr. Kurth pointed out.
 far away from the floodplain or floodway and the existing home on site will not be removed or demolished so it'll remain on the property. The proposed homes at this location will be in an already established neighborhood and will create appropriate infill. As Mr. Carruth mentioned we do have the support of the POA at the cottages at Old Wire and these homes will be a part of the existing POA and will be of the same or similar product to the existing adjacent neighborhood.
 All city services exist at site and I am happy to answer any additional questions you may have Thank you. Does the council have any questions for the app and our staff? We're good. Okay Let's take some public comment Everybody gets one turn speak you have a five minute duration Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilman stay on topic and
 Please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that Who'd like to address us on this topic? Anybody on zoom? No sir. All right. I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance So what discussion with the council like to have or what action with the council like today? I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading and
 i i just wanted to absolutely we did that i'll second that but um i have not received any public comment okay good and i don't know if scott has or not but so i just okay okay jackson would you please call the road whittaker yes verna yes lunch yes yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes
 Moore? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 2023-10, located at 1746 North O'Wire Road in Ward 3, for approximately 1.06 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation.
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading jackson would you please call the road wedeker yes berna yes lunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes more yes
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 23-10 located at 1746 north old wire road in war three for approximately 1.06 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation any final comments from the council
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Let's go on to number six. An ordinance to rezone a property inscribed in the petition RZN 2023-011 located at
 239 and 245 North Fletcher Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately .20 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map Exhibit A and the legal description Exhibit B both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Thank you, Marion. I apologize. I'm having a technical issue, but I'll begin
 Anyhow, and see if I can get it pulled up for you. This property is located east of downtown Fayetteville on the west slope of Mount Sequoia on the east side or on the west side of Fletcher Avenue between Dixon to the north and Spring Street to the south. It was recently developed with two single family dwellings which the applicant is currently proposing to subdivide but before which would require rezoning the property from its current
 RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban The RMF 24 zoning district requires larger lot widths generally whether it's for single-family two-family or multifamily housing Whereas RIU has a single lot width requirement regardless of the size of regardless of the development itself and
 When evaluating the request, planning staff did find in favor of the compatibility or found it to be compatible with the surrounding area. This is an odd juncture where everything downslope of it is currently zoned multifamily with its fairly high entitlements, both figuratively and literally. Literally in the sense that RMF 24 allows building heights up to five stories, whereas the RIS zoning district allows buildings only up to three stories in height.
 site. I think perhaps other than the single family dwellings on the site, perhaps one of the most notable characteristics is its slope. It does slope fairly significantly east westward as you go from Fletcher towards downtown. It's about a 13 to 15 percent slope and perhaps it comes as no surprise that it is designated as the within the city's HHOD or Hillside Hilltop Overlay District.
 Going back to compatibility, staff did find that the allowances under the RAU zoning district are much more in line with the surrounding neighborhood than what could be built with the RMF 24 zoning district. RAU permits single, two, three, and four family dwellings, again, up to three stories in height, whereas the RMF zoning district, like most of our multifamily districts, allows larger buildings with larger footprints. We find that RAU is more consistent with the surrounding area.
 From a future land use standpoint, staff finds it to be consistent. The area is designated as a residential neighborhood area, which is intended to capture multiple different types of residential housing, which the REU zoning district does allow.
 When it comes to issues to consider, one of the most prominent ones which was brought up at the agenda session, which was just questions about how could the property develop, I think there was some concern that given the slope in the area that it could be developed to a much higher standard. I think speaking first to a concern about or question about how it could be subdivided,
 Under either zoning district, it is possible that a tandem lot could be created behind the main lot, or you would allow two tandem lots as opposed to one. In either instance, though, tandem lots do require or do only allow single-family dwellings to be built on them. So it's not like a multi-family building could be built downhill or attached residential could be built downhill of this. But it is worth noting also that in either instance, the tandem lot requirements
 do require access. Our fire department has often required a 20 foot access in those instances. If you had an opportunity to visit this property, it's a fairly narrow drive between those buildings, which our fire department may not allow additional dwellings to be built downhill of it.
 Also, there's a requirement in the City of Fayetteville for water and sewer to have direct service lines to the street. What that means is you either have to bring a water main to your property line or you have to somehow get your property to the water main. And what that usually looks like is a flag of land that may run from a lot that's not directly on the street in which to put your service line.
 And with this lot's narrowness, the existing houses on it, and the narrow drive in between, it does not appear immediately feasible to do that. But I will admit that staff has not had a survey to review what that would look like.
 I think that speaks to the next item I was going to touch on, which is the one piece of public comment that staff and the Planning Commission received, which is included in your packet. There was a scenario of concern for one of the neighboring property owners that several dozen units could be built on this property, and evaluating this with planning staff between the agenda session. There's not a way that we see that being feasible, and I think that speaks to the
 both zoning districts allowances, it would not be feasible. Given the lot width, again, getting to a lot of the requirements that you heard brought up in the appeal earlier tonight, there are stormwater requirements, there are parking requirements, there are tree preservation requirements, of which those tree preservation requirements are heightened in our hillside, hilltop overlay district areas. So ultimately, it is possible that, I think one council member brought up the potential for an ADU to be built behind these units, that could be possible.
 But subdividing it with tandem lots may not be possible and certainly not developing it to the degree that the public expressed concern about. And with that, moving on to the recommendation, staff did reckon or does recommend in favor of this. And the Planning Commission felt similarly affording it to City Council unanimously. And I'm available for any question the council has. I'm sorry I wasn't able to have something for you to look at other than me. And Mayor, I believe Mr. Hambrice is here as the applicant for the item.
 Thank you. Yes, would the applicant like to speak for the council? Yes, come on up. You have 10 minutes. Yes, good evening. I'm Ronnie Hanbrice. I own the property at 239 and 245 North Fletcher. I'm a contractor, building contractor. I built both the houses, so I know how everything's divided. It's divided completely in half. So I would just appreciate you rezoning my property.
 thank you okay do we have any questions from the council for that yes that's a quick question for um either of you is the are the homes two stories or three stories two story two story okay thank you okay anything else okay well let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic? Do you have anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council?
 Would you all like to discuss or what action would you like to take? I have one quick question because it's in the hillside hilltop overlay. Can you remind me again what R.I.U. tree preservation is with that district? I believe that would put it at 20 percent. Okay. I guess 20 percent. That's what I was thinking. Thank you, Jonathan.
 Anything else? Yes. Regarding the rezone as it relates to the neighboring properties, the built-to, what kind of difference are we talking about? That's a good question. Both?
 This property and neighboring properties to the north and south are all zoned residential multifamily. The property to the north, which is a multifamily building, is built away from the street. I believe it has a parking lot between it and the street. These houses are built at the street because they're built under the current residential multifamily zoning district requirement. Fletcher generally varies because of the topography. A lot of the houses are near to the street. There are instances where they're built up higher than the street. So I don't think there's a
 fully consistent separation from the street among the homes okay so it's colors like a pattern there that kind of goes in and out is what you're saying already right thanks okay this is an ordinance on the first reading I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second go to the second Jackson would you please call the roll wait occur yes
 Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described and rezoning petition rzn 2023-11 located at 2239 and 245 north fletcher avenue in ward one for approximately fifth of an acre from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Jackson, will you please call the roll? Whitaker. Yes. Herna. Yes. Punch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe in the rezoning petition RZN 2023-11, located at 239 and 245 North Fletcher Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately a fifth of an acre from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Any final comments from the council?
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Okay. Everybody okay? All right. We can. Yeah. Take five minutes. Thought y'all might be getting a little tired. All right.
 Let's go ahead and get started again. Okay. Number seven, a resolution to authorize and request Mayor Jordan contract with a company to investigate and report back to the city information about short-term rental operations that do not have valid business licenses and to approve an appropriate budget adjustment to pay for the contract. Tracy. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm bringing this forward because I don't think we have enough data on unlicensed short-term rentals. I think I mentioned at agenda session that just a quick review of Airbnb, I found seven unlicensed rentals in one small street that actually only had 10 structures on it.
 well actually 11 because one of them was an ADU. And that particular, the reason why I kind of took that review or undertook that review was because the Planning Commission had just approved
 a short-term rental type 2 on that very street, but yet they had incomplete information. So there were two that were licensed on that street, and then I found the other seven that were unlicensed. So that may have impacted their decision about whether to approve that short-term rental. We've also had quite a bit of discussion about maybe some changes that we need to make, but again, without complete or at least better information, it's very difficult for us to make an informed decision.
 And so I'm bringing this forward, asking that the city council authorize the mayor to undertake a contract with a company that could go in and identify how many unlicensed short-term rentals are operating within our city on a variety of platforms. And Jonathan has actually been discussing this item with several companies and has kind of a price estimate that maybe he could show to everybody.
 Certainly. Thank you, Council Member Kirk. I'll get that pulled up if you'll allow me just one moment here. I think I've overcome my technical challenges. I alluded to it in broad terms at the agenda session, but I have been speaking with three different companies ever since the discussion of short-term rentals and third-party compliance came up last year.
 Generally, these services cost anywhere between $20,000 and $70,000. The reason for such a broad range is because there's a broad range of services directly associated with that. As you can see here, bullet point number one is what Council Member Kirk clarified at agenda session is what she's interested in authorizing mayor to authorize staff to pursue.
 And that basically breaks down into what you see here. This is from one of the more prominent national firms. It's called Host Compliance through Granicus. They shared a price estimate with us at the beginning of this year with
 address identification being one of those items which you can see at the top so it would be about eighteen thousand dollars During the break councilmember Turk also asked what a timing on this would look like I unfortunately don't have a specific answer to that but there are certain ones of these groups if they fall under a larger organization like Granicus that is already a I'm
 going to lose the correct terminology, but like a recognized contractor with the state, it's not necessary to go through the RFP process because they've established their credentials and they've been working with other communities. So this one in particular is one of those organizations, so it would not necessitate an RFP process and could potentially move forward more quickly.
 And with that, I also have, if you're curious, I know every time it comes up, I seem to bring up the current numbers. If you want to see those, I can share that as well. Otherwise I'm available for questions. And also as one final point of clarification,
 I know when I spoke at agenda session, I did note the potential for additional needed headcount for additional compliance. I think with the limitation of this to address identification and just working with one of these contractors to identify the information, that's not something that I foresee impacting staff's capacity or staff's ability. This is merely information being provided to us so that the council and council can make the most informed decision and staff can make the best recommendation.
 And now I'm ready or available for questions. Thank you. Okay. That's good. What questions do we have for staff?
 I have a question about in the past with some of these conversations, I thought that potentially when some of these companies scrape for the information, they have a differing range of variability about their accuracy of the data. And so I'm curious about what we might potentially be asking the mayor to go purchase and accuracy level with the companies versus I'm also curious whether or not this is something that staff can take on potentially and what that might
 look like if they did? That's a good question and if I may actually answer a separate question from last Tuesday real quick. I forgot Councilmember Bunch asked a question about that data scrape and if it includes operators in addition to property owners and I was able to speak with one of the contractors between last Tuesday and this and they shared that yes, if that information is included in the advertisement. They're not able to go beyond that.
 Thank you for whatever you said, prompting me to remember that. But to your question specifically, what it would look like if staff would do this, the information we have access to currently and what we use when we get complaints or compliance concerns is a service called AirDNA. What that is, it's an internet aggregator that basically grabs information from two platforms, the most prominent ones, Airbnb and VRBO.
 I think as many on the council who may be short-term rental users know there are a multitude of platforms, so I can't speak confidently that that represents a whole picture of what's out there. I mean, it's likely that that represents a large portion of it, but I think as...
 As market dynamics are changing and if you listen to the news on any given day, you hear about operators choosing to pursue other platforms with smaller takes of their income, that we're seeing more of a decentralization of those services. And I'm sorry, would you repeat the other part of your question, please, Council Member Moore?
 I was curious, you kind of, you potentially answered most of it about just the accuracy with the companies, like what's the variability of whenever they are potentially just scraping the data and then when they clean their data. I mean, my background was in data analytics in the past, and so I know, you know, different companies, you know, use different technologies and different algorithms, you know, to clean their data. So I'm curious about that.
 you know, what that would look like with the different companies that you've been speaking with. Thank you for repeating that. And that was a concern. Another one I think I alluded to on Tuesday that some of the municipalities I'd spoken to who have used this or other service of it had expressed frustrations with their experiences with having to...
 effectively evaluate the information they're getting from the contractor for accuracy or veracity and talking to the contractors they're confident that a lot has changed since then that they're able to evaluate that information before they issue it to the city I think the most prominent example I've heard is
 hotels that often use these platforms to unload extra rooms along with hot wire and other services. And sometimes, at least in the past, some of these contractors have picked up on that information. And without trying to advocate one way or another, I think that this is,
 step may represent a an opportunity to evaluate if that is accurate or not if they've improved their services before the city if it is interested in doing so pursues a wider range of services from these organizations if that makes sense
 I have a question Jonathan. So in that chart, and for Councilmember Turk as well, that the very top line item which is just address verification, is that what that, is that what you're saying is the limit of the, I'm sorry, address identification, is that the item that you would pursue? Are you going to ask to pursue any of the other items?
 So, like we clarified at the agenda session, it's only the address identification or verification that I'm seeking under this resolution, because I do think that we need to have better data and more data. And if we don't take this step, then what other alternative do we have than to ask staff, which I understand is already overburdened and we would probably essentially need to add another staff person.
 So I'm hoping that I can garner your support on this so that we can improve the information that we have before us. So in the pricing, Teresa, you know, we had that range of $20,000 to $70,000, which is where things usually fall for this. But you're saying that this is the price we're looking at.
 Yes, I'm just saying just that only top-level item, none of the other ones. And like I mentioned at agenda session, I would defer to the Ordinance Review Committee for additional recommendations or investigation or study. I simply want to find out through this service how many unlicensed short-term rentals we have in our city so that we can see if we're at that 2% cap. We're assuming that we're not, but...
 Our data is incomplete. As a member of the ordinance review, I think this information would be great for us to be able to use. I expressed that in agenda the other night and on the surface this sounded good, but then you expressed some potential concerns. And I think hearing what you just said, you feel like those concerns have been addressed about the staff issues
 That's correct. I think going into agenda session I had a misconception of what Councilmember Turk or the breadth of what Councilmember Turk was interested in after her clarification. I'm not concerned. Do we know what the timeline would look like? Everybody, want to be recognized. Okay. Go ahead. I apologize. So what would the timeline look like if we proceeded forward for that?
 I've not worked on a contract with a state, again I'm failing to come up with the vocabulary for it, I'm sorry, the preferred contractors are the recognized contractors with the state. I'd have to speak with our budget group and understand that a little bit better and then I can potentially update you all in between meetings so that you can have your expectations managed as far as when the contract may be on a future agenda.
 and um jonathan i just i heard from keith who does have experience with these kinds of purchases uh purchase agreements so i don't know if you want to have that question answered but he's here online if you if you wanted to go further i've got sony one there something too go ahead keith
 cooperative purchase agreements what are those like yeah that's generally when we select software we like to go utilize the route by leveraging cooperative purchasing agreements uh jonathan i've briefly spoke on the vendor that he's looking at i know at least two of those that are on cooperative purchasing agreements
 to where it kind of leverages the shared purchasing power of that cooperative. Their nationally bid contract kind of streamlines the purchasing process so we wouldn't have to go through like an RFP type or bidding scenario. So the procurement part of it would be pretty streamlined, and it's under the $35,000 threshold. So it's just a matter of how quickly the contractor could get a proposal to us and us to get that reviewed and signed.
 So essentially a couple of weeks probably? Correct. But generally two to three weeks it takes to turn something like that. Sure. Thank you, Mayor. Okay, so let me make sure I have this right. The type 2 is the one that goes to the cap, is that correct? Yes.
 That is correct and while we're on the topic, if I may take the liberty, I did have a slide with the numbers that may help answer that a little bit more clearly. The type 1 short-term rentals are those that are rented for, or excuse me, type 2 short-term rentals are those that are rented for nine months or more a year. Okay.
 which you can see the numbers here. There's currently, this is as of yesterday, there's 379 licensed Type 2 short-term rentals citywide. What the 2% cap looks like is our code says that we base that cap on American Community Survey census data, which says we have 44,706 units, of which 2% is 894.
 Of the 379 Type 2 short-term rentals, 328 contribute to that cap. So the ones that aren't in commercial zoning districts. So put in other terms, we are 0.7% towards the cap of licensed short-term rentals. So that does not include estimates on unlicensed ones, which the last time we looked through AirDNA, there were probably an estimated 300 that were unlicensed.
 So that's where my question is because the data we would need to know I mean in order to know we would need to know Which ones they are right we would because they're if they're scraping it from VR VR and a Airbnb and you can they don't They're we don't know the difference if it's a one or two, right? Is that correct? I believe so they can pull booking information from those I don't know if it would be able to be tailored to our
 to our ordinance put in terms of how the city regulates them or not that's a good question i think i'm concerned that um we don't want to go after someone who's who is a type one or i mean i think whether they're licensed or not is a good question so that's the first question but then the second question is is it one or two because only two goes to the cap so i don't i don't
 that if we need it we may need to add a little bit of cost to that if they're think about that if they're not include we don't know the answer to that with the data that we receive
 Okay, so is that directed to Teresa? Sure. Okay. So, Sonia, I think this company would be able to tell us whether it's a type 1 or type 2 because there's that homestead credit that's on the property records, and that's a requirement for the type 1. So I think they'll be able to discern that, or most of it.
 Thank you. Scott? Jonathan, you might or might not have had this conversation with the companies you're talking about, but assuming, making the assumption that if it takes a couple weeks to get the contract and get everything worked out with the software company, once it's implemented
 How long does it take to scrub the information and get us some type of information back to us for analysis? I do not know the answer to that. I've not gotten to that level of detail with them.
 Yes. So some of these platforms that people use like Airbnb, excuse me, Airbnb and VRBO allow people to place things on there to advertise, but they're not actually short-term rentals. They might be by six months or by the month or something like that. I'm assuming this has the ability to discern that type of setup.
 Because they are using the platform to advertise it, but it's not actually a short-term rental. It's a longer term. I think that fits into the conversation and concern I had, at least with this contract, on their ability to make the distinction between whether it's a hotel or I think the group that we often hear, planning commissions that talk about long-term nurses. It's like the coffee shop of mixed-use housing. People love the idea of a long-term nurse being a short-term rental.
 I think they do have the ability to discern that information but I can't say with certainty though okay okay so it is my understanding that someone could use that platform but not be actually be a short-term rental and not be in violation of our ordinance thank you anything else Jackson about taking any public comment okay anything else all right let's take some public comment in
 if i gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on top please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic and no one's on zoom okay i'm going to bring back to the council this is a resolution r
 Do you want to continue the conversation or take some sort of action? Scott? I think so. I was just going to move we approve the resolution. Do you have a question? Okay. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Is there any final comments from council? Thank you, Teresa, for bringing this forward. I think it's very helpful. We need to know how close we are to the actual cap. So hopefully we can get that. Thank you.
 Okay, Sarah. Oh, you're just getting ready. Getting ready. All right. Jackson, please call the roll. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Punch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Okay, let's move on to number eight.
 A resolution to amend rule A7D2, public comments to reduce the allowed speaking time for the public from five minutes to three minutes and to remove any requirement for speakers having to sign up.
 before the item is open for public comment. Scott, this is yours, I believe. Thank you, Mayor. Two weeks ago, we had an anticipation of two highly debated issues. Council Member Turk brought forward a recommendation to limit public comment from five minutes to three. At that time, the council voted eight, nothing to approve that suggestion.
 And that night seemed to flow really well. And after thinking about it, I decided to bring this forward. We had one night we had an 1130 meeting. That night it was a 1230 meeting, even with the shortened speaking time. I thought it was something that was a legitimate request in consideration for staff time.
 The amount of time that they spend preparing for the meetings, the amount of time that they spend here at the meetings and then they're expected to come to work the next day at 8
 So, I thought it was a legitimate request and speaking to several members of the public in the last week, they were all in agreement. Obviously not everyone is going to be in agreement, but a lot of folks thought it was a very efficient request. So I would ask for consideration. Okay, what questions do we have for Mr.
 Scott, this is going to be whatever discussion you all want to have. This is your rules of order procedure, so. Well, let me clarify on the second part with the cleaning up of the existing ordinance or existing rule of signing in to speak. That was just a suggestion from Kit to clean up something that was not being followed anyway. So that's the second part of that. Okay. What discussion would you like to have?
 Sure.
 I understand the intent behind this to create additional efficiency, and because it was demonstrated in one meeting that it potentially, you know, helped the efficiency of the meeting. I just have paused just about how quickly it's come about, and just because of the pace of life. I brought that up, you know, previously, knowing that so many individuals, you know, are not able to keep up weekly with what's happening with council. That's not the top of their list like it is for us.
 So really wanting to be respectful because we do have a very engaged citizenry and really ask tonight that we hold the item and let it come back to our regular council the next time we meet just so that there can be additional public comment.
 ranging things. Some people say three or five is fine. You know, others have said we need, you know, all of our allotted time. So just in the little bit of time since this came out, I've heard a lot of mixed information. And so I'd like to allow the public to have a little bit more time to have that discussion. Okay. What is the discussion? Well, then I guess we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes to raise.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or in the council. And we'll stay on topic. Give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. And those who just came to Zoom will speak after that. Go ahead. Tall people problems, sorry. Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Rob Qualls, 2140 Jonquil in Ward 3. I'm sure you know, Mayor, that this topic is kind of my thing. I often advocate for accessibility, transparency, and public input.
 Fayetteville government's accessibility and transparency is one of the things that makes Fayetteville stand out. One thing that got me involved in the city. When the topic of public comment came up in 2020, I worked with Councilmember Petty at this time to make some changes.
 I went to three ordinance review meetings, several agenda sessions and meetings to work through the process in support of the change. As a result of that meeting, the countdown timer was added after three minutes. Changes were made regarding ordinance readings and amendments and the sign up for comment was added. The data at the time didn't show the shortening public comment would make a significant difference. I believe that's still the case.
 The rules of order were most recently changed in January 2022 to remove the countdown timer and again in January of this year to give appellants 10 minutes when presenting on an appeal. There was no discussion of shortening public comment in January, and the majority voted to keep comments at five minutes at that time. I agree that meetings must be shorter, but the responsibility for efficient meetings should be shared by counsel.
 I don't believe the public comment alone will make much difference. The April 18th meeting would have been four hours and five minutes with no public comment. The comment or the meeting on May 2nd that flowed well would have been five hours and 17 minutes with no public comment at all. On the COPS hiring grant item, over an hour of questioning and debate occurred before a couple of comments and without a motion on the table, not including the Chief's presentation.
 Public comment was 19 people and took just 45 minutes at three minutes each. Three speakers hit the three-minute time limit. One was already on her last word and one requested an additional minute that they were granted. It's hard to see how the three-minute time limit saved more than a few minutes of a six-hour and 44-minute meeting last time. The following are some ideas for making meetings shorter.
 Follow and enforce Robert's Rules of Order and City Council rules and procedures. For example, members must be recognized by the chair before speaking or be called out of order. The Arkansas Municipal League's guidance says debate should follow a motion and a second. Members should review the agenda items in the packet to see if their questions are answered there before taking up meeting time to answer those questions. At the last agenda meeting it was mentioned that the court has more strict rules on public comment. Well, I don't think that that partisan body is
 the best role model for us. One thing that was not discussed is that they limit debate time in the number of times per item that the members of the board can speak. I had opposed putting limits on council in 2020, but after gathering data for meetings this year, I believe placing a 10- to 15-minute limit on council debate would have the greatest impact on shortening meeting times. Council can better manage the agenda. If a meeting already has a full slate of business, don't add more items to it unless it's absolutely
 Council makes their own rules. If they want meetings to be adjourned at a certain time, they can make that rule. Changing rules too often makes them harder to follow. It's my opinion that these rules of order are worthy of thoughtful consideration and should be made using data. Council may want to see if someone in either the clerk's office or media services would be able to keep records of meeting length, public and staff comment length, council comment length, debate times, etc. So you have data that you can use in future discussions when this comes up.
 That's something I helped with in 2020, but I had a little bit less time this time around. There are software tools now that can help automate that, and as I often say, we can't improve what we don't measure. I'd rather go on data than feelings. I would ask that rather than tabling this resolution, Council should vote on it tonight and work on a comprehensive rule change package in the future. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. And I've tried to restrain myself up to this point tonight, and it seems like it's worked. We're at item number eight much quicker than normal. If you went to see Hamilton when they came to town, then Aaron Burr said, talk less and smile more. And maybe that's some good advice, except maybe in Fayetteville it should be talk less and listen more. That's probably something I could learn from, too.
 We know Fayetteville loves public comment, but the question is how much? And being the numbers guy that I am, I have taken advantage of this AI revolution and run some of your past meetings through some transcription services just to find out how much we love our public comment. Tonight, just doing it manually, before your break,
 you had three public comments at an average of two minutes and 35 seconds each. In that same time, Councilmember Turk spoke for nine minutes and 40 seconds, Councilmember Harvey for two minutes and 30 seconds. A quick sampling, on January 17th, that meeting had four public comments at an average of three minutes and 17 seconds each.
 In that meeting, Councilmembers Berna and Turk each spoke for a little more than four and a half minutes, with Councilmember Bunch a distant third at two and a half minutes. February 7th, you had two public comments, averaging one minute and two seconds each. That meeting, Councilmembers Turk and Moore each spoke for about four and a half minutes. Again, Councilmember Bunch, two minutes and four seconds in third place.
 Incidentally, Council Member Bunch, you get interrupted more than anyone else on this council, and I know that in the past I've been responsible for that too, and I apologize. But when you're watching old meetings, things like that start to jump out at you. Rob talked about the meeting that brought this to your mind and how even at that one, the average comment was substantially less than the three minutes we're talking about.
 So I don't know that shortening this is going to help your average comment length. It is going to limit the folks who have a broader point to make. There are plenty of other strategies you could look to, areas we could carve some extra time
 There's a lot of times when there's confusion over what reading we're on, what a motion means, paying a little closer attention and being more familiar with Robert's Rules of Orders might make some of that go more smoothly. The later the night goes on, obviously, the harder that gets.
 Also, just a little bit of council member restraint. There have been some appeals that have been brought forward where even the sponsors of the appeals voted no on them. I would encourage you all, if it's not something that you champion, maybe it's not worth spending the time on at council.
 There have been a lot of, a lot, I've got two examples of things that I would consider unnecessary holdovers to the next meeting that have caused things to go longer. The old wire rezoning was held up for an extra meeting over a traffic study that you already had in hand under the assumption that the public needed more time to digest its data. The active transportation plan update.
 was produced through a public comment process, or public involvement process, several of them. And that one was held with the same justification that the public needed more time to read what was relatively minor update to an existing city plan.
 So these are your rules. You can do whatever you want with them. I hope you won't reduce public comment and if you do, I hope that it doesn't happen tonight when it was introduced just at the agenda session and put at the end of the agenda so that somebody wanting to talk about their talk time had to wait through the whole thing. If you hold it till next time it'll be on old business and we can talk about this all over again at the very beginning.
 If a traffic study and the active transportation committee meet, active transportation update are worth giving folks a little more time to look at, I think this is too. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Do we have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I mean, these are y'all's rules of procedure. Yes, Teresa. Since I talk so much from the analysis, I'll just carry on.
 So, my thought is that traditionally, or at least what I understood tradition to be, is when we adjust our rules and order and procedure, it's usually at the beginning of the year. And so, I would be much more comfortable making that adjustment at the beginning of next year.
 And if we have a hot button issue where we have a full crowd or even some that are outside, maybe just for that one council meeting we reduce it to three minutes like we did a couple of weeks ago. So that's sort of my point of view. Okay.
 I know we don't like holding things over for the next meeting or we don't like doing this, that or the other or being here really late, but sometimes I think it's important. And so I think I was the person that sponsored those two items that we held over. And I do think it's important for the public to know. But that would be my recommendation that we would wait until the beginning of the year. And I'll stop now.
 i don't have anybody on my screen okay sir thank you um i i do think one thing that's been brought up that i do agree with is that
 we can monitor ourselves a little bit better. And when we look at an agenda, if we have something that we want to walk on or an item that maybe is not the, you know, when we look at the massive agenda that we have, maybe we could take an item off and, you know, move our item to the next meeting or something like that to be a little more,
 respectful of everyone's time, but I do reserve the right to appeal for someone and change my mind because how many times do you come in and you hear new information
 at this when we're at our meeting and you you maybe change your mind from the agenda so so i don't feel bad about doing that if i have to but i do think i think our our the way that we put our agendas together as council members needs to be reflective of how we value our time and everyone else's time that includes the public that comes here people that sit here
 till midnight to have their one item covered. And that includes the public that wants to speak in favor or in opposition of something. And that definitely includes staff. You know, I go home tired. I know they go home exhausted. And they, you know, like Jonathan here has the patience of Job. That's what my mom used to say. He's so patient and just very, you know,
 gets right to everything but you know he's here every every meeting that we have long long time not too many people here tonight but sometimes we have a room that's filled with staff as well so I think those are two things that we could do that might help thank you who else the two council members on zoom do they want to say something
 Yes, Mayor, I'd like to say something really quick. Okay. I think that this is very reasonable, and, you know, as we've seen in prior meetings, if somebody wants to give a person or a citizen more time, we can do that. I think this would expedite the meeting and make it a little bit more reasonable. So I would be in favor of this. Okay. DeAndre? Excuse me. Good evening. I just wanted to point out that...
 When we are, I think, communicating with staff, I noticed tonight there was a 12-minute exchange between one of our council members and Alan Pugh, and then on top of a 10-minute presentation. So I do appreciate the public pointing out.
 that public comment wasn't consuming our time. And as a council member,
 myself, I do plan to pay more attention to my contribution so they won't be as lengthy, because you're right. Being respectful of staff's time, I know that I have to get up the next morning to go to work. And I don't think after nine o'clock at night, any of us can make a real informed decision. So I do think that we should be more aware of
 of our comments and limiting them as much as we possibly can holly has her hand up again okay um i would like to move that we approve this resolution well do we have a second second okay well all right jackson would you please call the row whittaker yes verna yes lunch
 I want to preface this by saying I'm going to vote yes for this, but I do believe we can always give someone more time if we need to, and we can always change if we realize we are not hitting enough people we can expand it if we need to. So I vote yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? No. Jones? No. And Moore? No. Okay.
 So, Mayor, that's a four to four vote. Do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. And the resolution fails. Okay. Do we have any announcements? Yes, sir. One announcement. I'm sure you all are aware that the new police headquarters was opened and our police officers and the whole group got to move on May 1st. Chief Reynolds asked me to announce that we'll be having a building dedication on the 24th, a week from tomorrow.
 at 10 in the morning, a media release with the full details will be going out. But he asked me to go ahead and make sure you all were aware of that and the public is aware of that. It's going to be quite a facility. It's an amazing facility, and everyone's welcome. But anyway, that'll be a week from tomorrow. And we'll send the details out tomorrow. All right.
 I don't think I have. Sarah. I just wanted to share with the community, there was a bipartisan effort in the county to bring a 9-11 mobile exhibit from with the Tunnel to Towers Foundation, which helps veterans across the country. Also, with the Washington County Veterans Services, and it's going to be May 18th.
 um through the 21st in the northwest arkansas mall parking lot if folks want to go it's it's actually free because it's been sponsored by donations in the county okay anything else okay