i would like to call the city council meeting of may 17 2016 to order sondra would you please call the row here here here okay would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the May 3rd, 2016 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to authorize a three-year renewal of the enterprise agreement with Microsoft Corporation through its authorized reseller, SHI International Corporation, for software products in the amount of $137,200 per year, plus applicable taxes and to approve a contingency in the amount of $13,700 per year for an additional software licenses as needed.
 number three a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of eighty one thousand six hundred and two dollars representing donation revenue to animal services for the first quarter of two thousand sixteen number four a resolution to approve a change order to the contract with alliance pump and mechanical incorporated
 and the amount of forty three thousand five hundred twenty one dollars plus applicable taxes for additional repair services required to rebuild seven gearboxes at the nolan wastewater treatment plant
 number five a resolution award bid number 16-30 and to authorize the purchase of four commercial washer extractors and five drying units from central laundry equipment incorporated of ward arkansas in the amount of sixty five thousand one hundred and thirty dollars plus applicable taxes for use by the fire department
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $3,723, recognizing parkland dedication fees from the northeast quadrant to be used for a portion of improvements to an expansion of the playground at Braden Neighborhood Park.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 50-50 matching grant from the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism Outdoor Recreation Grant Program in an amount of $150,000 for the construction of playground and parking improvements at Wilson Park and to approve a budget adjustment.
 8. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $29,387, representing donation revenue to the parks and recreation of the park. 9. A resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize Federal-aid recreational trails funding and authorize application for a 20% local match grant through the Arkansas Recreational Trails Program in the amount of up to $56,000.
 for the replacement of a section of the Razorback Regional Greenway from Maple Street to Frisco Avenue. Number 10, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to utilize Federal-aid Transportation Alternatives Program funds and authorize application for a 20% local match grant to the Arkansas Transportation Alternatives Program in an amount up to $500,000 for the installation of trail lighting along
 the Razorback Regional Greenway, and the Mud Creek Trail from the Fulbright Expressway to Old Missouri Road. Number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of 1.5 acres of property for construction of the Cato Springs Trail from Levi's Storage Center LLC in the amount of $31,296, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,129.60.
 Number 12, a resolution to accept the donation of 1.5 acres of property from Home Team LLC with the restriction that no development shall occur on the property for at least 50 years. And number 13, a resolution to approve amendments to the Federal Active Transportation Plan map to add a connector trail between the Hamptons Creek Trail and the Shiloh Trail to remove a paved trail from the Kessler Mountain Ridge
 and to add a loop trail around the regional park. Adela. I move to accept the consent agenda. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Matthew Cady. Yes. Adela Long. Yes. Adela Bryant. Yes. Justin Tennant. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to amend 72.58 off-street parking facilities rules and rates M to limit the mayor's authority to assign any city-owned paid parking lots or on-street paid parking spaces within the entertainment district or the closure of city streets for the use of a permitted special event to not more than two days per year without express approval of the city council.
 Mayor, I think you realize the Ordinance Review Committee met and considered this a couple different times, and we have some suggested changes. However, they're not prepared properly in the ordinance form yet, and there's a request, I think, from the Ordinance Review Committee to postpone decision on this until the second meeting in June.
 We have the Chairman of the Orders and View Committee, Alderman Tennant. I'll defer to him on that, but I think we need a motion to table.
 That was our conversation, Mayor, that we wanted to make sure that we got it in the right form and that it was worded correctly and given the schedules and the timeframe needed and since we're not in a huge hurry necessarily for this, we thought that that was the best timeframe to do it.
 I would make a motion to table if I could, sir. Until the second week of June? Yes, sir. Is there a second? Allen? Second. Okay. All right. Any discussion on it? All right. Yes. Was that motion for the second week of June or the second meeting in June? I'm sorry. I hope it was the second meeting. Second meeting. Yeah, second meeting. I didn't hear that part. So do I need to amend my it would be for the second meeting in June would be my motion, right? Right.
 that that makes sense we don't even have a meeting in the second second week so i think it's understood it's the second meeting in june we're not going to meet in the second week of june no matter what type of amendment so i assume it was the second meeting it is the second meeting in june my motion so we could get alderman long to second that on the screen very well alan second we have motion to second all right any discussion on it all right shall motion pass
 March yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you number two an ordinance to approve vacation 16-53 54 submitted by Steve Fowler property located at 1137 West Martin Luther King Boulevard the vacate portions of a utility easement I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading
 Allen so moved. Okay, Justin All right. We have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes Yes, yes, yes Yes
 An ordinance to approve DAC 16-5354 submitted by Steve Fowler for property located at 1137 West Martin Luther King Boulevard to vacate portions of a utility easement.
 I believe you all discussed this at the last meeting. I want to make sure that everyone's clear on what the request is. We could have the map shown. The request here is related to an existing older water and sewer utility easement located under an existing building in a parking lot.
 I believe there's some questions and concerns about some of the stream site protection area that also resides on the same property, but I do want to make sure that it's clear for everyone this is not within that area. This is actually west of the area in question. So this was simply an encumbering existing building, so they had to have a clean title. They wouldn't have a cloud on their title from this existing utility easement. So that's why staff's recommending approval, I see, of the Planning Commission. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay.
 I asked everyone to turn off their cell phones. That's very entertaining, but please shut up your cell phones, please. Okay. Any questions for Jeremy on this? Okay. Any public comment on this item? I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council?
 I have a comment. Where do I hit? Okay. Mark. I had requested further information on this because I was concerned about the location. I got further information from planning. This is actually underneath what's already developed. And it's, so my concerns about where it was located and how it would impact the velocity of the runoff in this area were answered. And so I would be happy to support this.
 Okay, thank you mark anyone else. Yeah, I hear that motion so move if you're third and final reading third and final reading Sarah I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading shell emotion packs Yes Yes, yes Yes
 And Norris approved the AC 16-53 54 submitted by Steve Fowler for property located at 1137 West Martin Luther King Boulevard To vacate portions of a utility easement Sarah Well, we're there I mean we're into the final comments any final comments from the council, okay Shall the ordinance pass?
 March. Yes. Petty. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Okay. Yes. Okay. Number three, an ordinance to amend Chapter 116, door-to-door solicitation of the Federal Code by repealing 116.01, enacting a replacement of 116.01, and by amending the definition of solicitor in 116.02A4. I think it was left on the...
 First reading. I need a motion to go to the second reading. Allen. Motion to go to the second reading. Adele. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Marsh. Yes. Shetty. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 and orders to amend chapter 116 door-to-door solicitation of the fable code by repealing section 11601 enacting a replacement section 11601 and by amending the definition of solicitor in section 11602a4 and of course this is uh what got you all amended uh at the last meeting uh and i think it's in pretty good form at this point in time i've heard no comments uh to my office on this okay
 What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Justin? I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kingman? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance to amend chapter 116 door-to-door solicitation of the fable code by repealing section 116-01 enacting replacement section 116-01 and by amending the definition of solicitor in section 116-02-a4 any final comments from the council on this okay shall the ordinance pass marsh yes teddy yes mom yes right
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Moving along to new business, number one. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5385 for approximately 35.31 acres on Dead Horse Mountain Road from RA, residential agriculture, to RSF2, residential single-family two-unit per acre, subject to a bill of assurance limiting development to 51 homes. Kip.
 be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one at the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo
 From RA, residential agricultural, to RSF2, residential single-family, two units per acre, subject to the bill of assurance limiting the number of homes to 51. Section 2 is that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are also hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 I should note that subsequent to drafting this ordinance, the bill of assurance was submitted that not only limited the number of homes to 51, but also by restricting all of the traffic, construction traffic, to Dead Horse Mountain Road. That's what the bill of assurance now says, and so that's what you will be considering. I will just amend the title and the ordinance itself to say that, but the bill of assurance, which has been signed and submitted, that is what that says, and that's what controls on this.
 This traffic won't be going through the neighborhood, basically.
 The construction traffic will be limited to Dead Horse Mountain Road. I don't think the road that is being constructed will actually be built to the other road, Plum Road I think, whatever it is. So I think initially at least all the traffic will be restricted to Dead Horse Mountain Road. Now when the other road is completed, then there will be traffic from both directions from the neighborhood.
 to the south or to the north of this as well as possibly from here that could go out into cherry hill drive and some of the others but no construction traffic uh and in fact there won't be any traffic until there's a later later development that road is extended okay
 uh jeremy you have anything you want to add to that sure i'll just describe the project for you this is an appeal by the applicant of a planning commission decision at the last planning commission meeting the planning commission voted to deny this rezoning request you may recognize the property it is in southeast fayetteville along our city limit line near dead horse mountain road last year the city council saw this request
 to rezone the property for RSF2. The bill of assurance that's been offered is different, as is the property boundary. Additional property, I believe it was around 17 acres or so, that was requested to be rezoned to the same zoning district last year. It was recommended for denial by the Planning Commission, ultimately denied by the City Council.
 uh this request however does change that application this request is for additional acreage to rezone to rsf2 the same zoning district but it also includes the potential for connection to dead horse mountain road
 um as mentioned by mr williams the bill of assurance limits two essential things one is the number of units that could be developed on the property the zoning district would limit it to single family residential units two units per acre and they've further limited that to 50 total of 51 lots on this property and then secondly the um
 Second portion of the bill of assurance that's discussed would limit construction traffic for the building of infrastructure roads and water sewer and homes eventually to the dead horse Mountain Road access point and
 and again as mr williams mentioned eventually this connection would be required fire codes after 30 homes requires you to have a secondary point of access and so ultimately would have to connect but it would still be limited that bill of assurance would still carry carry forward for the the lifetime of this property staff did not recommend in favor of the the recommendation i
 The future land use plan that you all have adopted that we go by is called City Plan 2030. It recognizes this as more of a rural area to preserve woodlands, agricultural lands. This is much more of a woodland as opposed to agricultural in nature. As you can see on the map here, it's adjacent to
 the golf course undeveloped County land and some single-family neighborhoods to the Northeast within the Stonebridge Meadows area there is also a developing single-family neighborhood on the sort of the flat land to the west of Dead Horse Mountain Road and that's the bulk of the development that's occurring right now the majority of Stonebridge Meadows Golf Course has been built out over the last
 say 15 years or so, 20 years perhaps. Planning Commission voted 7-2, recommending not in favor of this request. I'd be happy to take any questions. Okay. Is the applicant, would they like to make a statement for the council? Mr. Mayor, city council, staffers, good to see you all. My name is Robert Rhodes, and I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill, and I am pleased to represent, I guess for the second time, Buffington Homes.
 They are represented today also by two of their owners. And I'd ask Clay Carlton and Mike Lambreth to stand up please, just let people know who you are. Okay. I think the excellent job that Jeremy did kind of laying this out, I was gonna kind of give a little bit of a history. I'm not gonna do that, I guess for a couple of reasons. Number one, we were here a year ago
 And I believe every one of you were here a year ago. And so you've, I think you know the history of the project. Further, I know that I think staff has given you ample paper to look at. I in turn have given you ample paper that I've received from my clients and have, in addition to the bill of assurance.
 And I recently asked the city clerk, and the city clerk was kind enough to distribute some emails to you with some additional information. And so instead of trying to walk through every bit of that and take up an...
 way too long amount of your time, I'm going to hit some highlights. And I know that looking out in the crowd, I know there's people that probably want to speak for and against this. And so we'll give them ample time as well. I would like to save maybe just a little bit of my time to maybe answer some questions that you might have.
 Again, I think the biggest difference between this project from what you saw as a PZD and what you saw a year ago is the bill of assurance item specifically indicating that all of the construction traffic will go out Dead Horse Mountain Road. The reason I think that is so significant is because I think our collective memories of
 should recall that most of the people that got up and spoke against this project a year ago, it was primarily because of the construction traffic going through their neighborhoods. That will not happen.
 We, the developers at that, at the time, couldn't just snap their fingers and make that change on that particular project the way it was configured. Because it was a development in a different part of this overall property that they own. But the developers did hear what those people had to say. We also heard from council members that said that they might be supportive if indeed necessary.
 that was the case, that being that the road for construction be Dead Horse Mountain, not going through the subdivision. So I think that in itself is a large change, and I hope that will go a long way in garnering your support for this project. Again, I'm just going to try to hit some highlights.
 This kind of came up in meetings. And by the way, the...
 the the buffington people have met with neighbors they have sent out a letter which you have in your packet to the neighbors they've invited other meetings and they sit ready willing and able to meet with whoever wants to meet with them and discuss what their plans are for the project listen to concerns and and try to be future future good neighbors but in the course of one of those meetings um
 I think a point was made that perhaps maybe wasn't made last time, and I'd like you to kind of maybe wrap your heads around it. If the developers, if the Buffington people develop this by right with what they currently have, it'll be RA, it'll be 17 versus the 51. And so if they do that, they're still going to put virtually the same infrastructure in.
 The argument was made that why should we allow this, what I guess some people might consider sprawl, why should we allow that because...
 the city then has to maintain that infrastructure. Well, you're still gonna have to maintain that infrastructure, but instead of having seven, I'm sorry, instead of having 51 homes that provide a bit of a tax basis or tax money to go toward that infrastructure, you're only gonna have 17. So again, I hope you'll, that's not in the packet. I hope that is a point that you can support as well.
 I know that as long as I've been involved in either sitting where you're sitting or advocating for people, whether it's developers or whether it's homeowners, that our good city attorney talks about what we can discuss and what we can't discuss and what we should consider, I guess. I guess we can discuss anything, can't we? Because it certainly seems like we do. But what you consider when you make your vote...
 would primarily be compatibility and things of that nature. If you'll look at some of the information that the Buffington people sent you, you'll see that there is the surrounding area. As a matter of fact, adjacent property is currently zoned and currently built or being built out
 with twice as much density in some cases as what we're asking for here. And so I think you can also make in your heart of hearts the determination that this property truly is compatible with what you've done before and what you're continuing to do up and down Huntsville Road. I would also ask you to think about
 as you think about whether you really believe this to be sprawl or not to be sprawl, I'd say it's not sprawl and I'd ask you to look at Mr. Carlton, who's again one of the owners of Buffington, look at the letter that he sent y'all where he talks about four or five other developments that are more dense and are, I think by all means, successful and well thought out and well admired developments.
 And they're all further away from the square of Fayetteville than what this development is currently planned or will be. The last thing that I'd ask you to consider, and again, this is some of the information that you should have just received from Sandra this afternoon that I asked her to send. If you'll note, there...
 there is a a spreadsheet that is signed by one of the owners mister carlton assigned it and it lays out the the uh... the dollar amounts the money and i'm not talking about for the price of the property the uh... the uh...
 the purchase price of the property is not included in that spreadsheet. And so I'd ask you to kind of look at that. That is the amount of money that was used by the developers once they got their PZD granted. And again, you remember that was a unanimous three readings on one night granting of that PZD at two per acre versus what we currently are at at 1.4 per acre.
 And as a result of that, they purchased the property. As a result of that PZD, put up substantial money, $850,000. And again, it's in that spreadsheet. And a lot of other costs that you can look at. I'm not going to go through tick by tick, but it's engineering costs. It's all sorts of studies. And that went into...
 their desire to develop this piece of property through the PZD. Now again, this is history, I know. They didn't develop it because of the recession. It was then changed from the PZD in a broad scale rezoning of all expired PZDs by your city staff and ultimately by you, the city council, to the RA. I would ask you to
 consider that they have made substantial steps while they had the right to develop it with the two homes per acre. And I think, I don't want to lecture you on what the law might be, but I would hope that if you have questions about it, I would hope you know, or that, I'm sorry, that Mr. Williams can maybe help clear this up a little bit more, but
 I think when a landowner takes these substantial steps and to the tune of over a million dollars certainly would be considered by I think the courts of Arkansas as substantial steps, then they still have rights greater than the RA in this particular case. And so I would hope that you would consider that. So we're not sitting up here, we being the developer, and asking you to go back.
 to the PZD, we're asking you to let us develop this as it currently sits before you with this bill of assurance that I think, I would hope, makes it something that most of the neighbors can get behind. I know that a lot more of the neighborhoods, the neighbors, I think will be behind it. And I guess...
 In case you don't invite me back up here, I would like to do one more thing. All of the people that are here in support of this rezoning, in support of this project, could you please stand up?
 Thank you. I'm not sure all those people will speak. Matter of fact, I expect they won't in consideration for y'all's time. Some of them will, but I want you to know that there are people and some of these folks that actually live in the neighborhood that before they were against it, but with that bill of assurance, they're not anymore.
 With all that said, I'd entertain any questions, or I'd be more than glad to come back up here and answer questions, or I'll just go back to my seat and shut up, whatever is the pleasure of the council. Jess? Robert, if I can ask you about the bill of assurance for the construction traffic on Dead Horse Mountain. That was my main hang-up before. I heard from a lot of people that were worried about
 falling off trucks and things in the neighborhood. From the developer's standpoint, I understand there's a bill of assurance, but what communications will they be giving to the different contractors that'll come in and out at the different times that states they must use dead horse mountain? You're talking, okay, no contractors will go through the neighborhood.
 I suspect that they will have front end meetings with all of the people involved. I suspect they'll probably post an email and signs with all the contractors involved.
 It's very normal to have construction entrance and exit signs put up as far as what roads you can and cannot use. I think most contractors understand those and follow those. If there's any other suggestions, then they certainly will consider those as well.
 The reason I ask is because what you're saying is exactly what I found in my own private investigating. I talked to some contractors, because I'm not a contractor nor I'm a developer, and I asked them how that usually goes in different areas that they have done it over in Northwest Arkansas.
 If we're told that that's what we're supposed to do, we know that that's part of our contract, essentially, whether it's written or not, and we adhere to that. They all told me the same thing. So that's kind of what I wanted to clarify. Thank you, Robert. Okay. Any other questions? Thank you. Okay. Nellie, do you want to add anything? I think not. Okay. Anything else from the council before we go on? Just...
 Could I ask Clay? Yep, that'll be fine. I forgot to introduce him. Thank you. Yep, sure. Hello, Council Members. I'm Clay Carlton. I'm one of the owners, visited with many of you over the years. And I'm really here. I wanted to just kind of point out some of the things that we've done in this new revised concept, concept plat, that is what we think is going to make it a really unique
 neighborhood and I believe it was in some of your packets although I don't know that there's anyone here to go through the slides Jeremy can you do that we'll see if it's in there I'm not sure which well we had some concept plants where it kind of had the last lay over the property okay there's some of them right there that's that's the overall layout of the the plat that we have showing the connection off of Deadhorse Mountain Road
 um coming all the way through can you go back one okay so one thing that we've decided to do in this development is it's hard to tell from that angle but what we've done is we've put the homes all on the downhill side of a road which is not always the smartest thing to do cost wise but we think it's going to make it a unique development because
 All of these homes, you can't really tell the direction there, but all of those homes are facing over downtown University in the downtown area. So they'll all have views off the back of their house of, you know, the sunset and downtown. Unless you zoomed in, it'd be hard to tell, but we have staggered the lots on the uphill side so that they have essentially viewing between the two homes on the downhill side.
 which, there we go, it'd be hard to kind of, where'd you go? Well, for instance, lot 49 is looking, you know, in between lots seven and eight, as opposed to down on top of a rooftop, and 48 in between eight and nine. And, you know, that's gonna be pretty unique with all of the woods that we have and preserving those views. Also, it's hard to tell because you don't have lot dimensions on there, but all of the homes on that uphill side, those are over 200 feet deep.
 And when you use the 25 foot front setback in the zoning that we have, and then, you know, say a typical house, maybe 50 to 60 feet deep, you know, you're talking about leaving 120 feet of green space. And it's our intent to maintain a green tree belt along the backsides of those lots, which will be aesthetically pleasing and, you know,
 Without disturbing those trees. I think it will also help with runoff erosion and what-have-you I mean, that's a pretty big swath of trees that would be staying in place Anyway, we we haven't seen that done before and I think that's going to be pretty unique Development. Can you go one more Jeremy one one more slide over? No, no, no the next slide There we go we just kind of put this together because the map you were looking at earlier is kind of zoomed in awfully close, but I
 when you look how close we are to all of the RSF for zoning which is all of the Stonebridge Meadows phases that they have and then just to our Northwest is a property that that you guys just approved for an RSF for zoning with the bill of assurance and that project is currently getting designed and engineered for 130 homes so you can't see that now but that project is in the works and
 And then the entire property just across Dead Horse Mountain Road, all of that is zoned RSF4, and there's currently a neighborhood getting built in there. So, you know, at our request of essentially 1.4 units per acre, we feel like we're more than compatible with the surrounding neighborhoods. And it also sits on the golf course.
 like I said because of what's happened over the last 11 years all the utilities are already on site we brought the water and sewer and so there's no no problems there and then in the other exhibit you can see just really how close this property is to downtown you know four miles and a 10 minute drive and these people that are going to live here are certainly going to be people that are going to you know shop eat downtown
 it's it's closer than what you think so kind of the last thing is is that I just wanted to point out Mike and I both we're Fayetteville residents we both went to college here we currently have four other neighborhoods that we're developing in the city and we've developed neighborhoods over the last ten years here and want to continue doing that and
 We also like doing infill development and we currently have the cottages at Old Wire that some of you may be familiar with. It's what we think has been a successful infill development and then we also did the Lakewood subdivision that's next to the Fayetteville Athletic Club that I think most people would consider that to be infill as well. So we
 like to say that we like to build to the market and so there are people that love infill development and we like to meet that need but then there's also other people that don't want to live that way they want to live on a bigger lot or they want to live on a golf course and so that is what we're trying to do with this zoning is you know meet another segment of the market for people that are looking to live in Fayetteville so
 that's all i have anyone has any questions what questions do we have for clay on this no questions john had to get the right screen clay what did i say that i had to get the right screen before i could request permission to speak electronics the rules the rules thank you for being sensitive to market needs building for people who like infill building for people who like larger lots
 that's exactly what i like to hear you're meeting your market's needs you're meeting the desires of the people that the people vote with their dollars where they buy or how they live that's freedom thank you for being part of that process anyone else clay i just have one question for you i know mr rhodes mentioned that you all had spent a million dollars is that correct mr rhodes
 Okay. Thank you. I believe he emailed a breakdown, but, I mean, the reality is, you know, we'll never get out of this project ahead. It's been a long 11 years. I understand. I'm just trying to be sure that it's on record that you've spent a million dollars. Well, no, we've spent a lot more than that. He's talking about just on water and sewer extensions. Right. That's, yeah. Et cetera.
 That was in the packet, correct. That's a small portion. Okay. Any other questions? Yes, Adele. Yes, I believe the spreadsheet I saw said 3,577,000. Is that correct?
 Clay? That's correct. That's got interest carry costs and things. There's some other costs that aren't in here, but that's legal costs, accounting costs, property taxes, things like that. We were trying to show costs directly related to us when we bought the property and began to develop it. Right. And you bought it in what year? 2006. 2006.
 and so this 3 million 577 is what you all have spent during that time the 10 years essentially well plus the cost of the land right and the cost of the land was 3.4 million so 3.4 in addition to 3.5 is what you all have invested there's actually a little more but I mean but yes
 Once we get that high, who's counting, huh? Right. Putting this spreadsheet together today made me sick. I'm sure. Thank you, Clay. And that's the reason I hope that our council will consider very strongly allowing these developers to move forward with this project. Thank you. Okay. All right. Thank you, Clark.
 I know the city attorney sent out a memo. Was today kit on what costs are to— Well, it's on something I just ran into, actually not looking for it. I was looking to write a memo to the planning commission because I had told them that the Unified Development Code must be construed in favor of the property owner and not in favor of the city.
 I've said that for many years, but this last time I said it to the Planning Commission, they looked a little quizzical, so I thought, well, I better do some more research and rhyme a little memo. And when I was doing that, I noticed in one of the cases an issue that I really had not been aware of, even though I've been doing this 16 years and been a lawyer 40 years, and I still didn't recognize it immediately, and it's called the substantial use test.
 And it has to do with a landowner actually getting a vested interest in the ability to develop their property. In this particular case, or the one that I saw was out of West Helena, and someone had begun to develop a mobile home park, and they had paved a street down to half of their mobile home park and built some patios and laid some pipes in. I think it came up to like maybe $50,000. Right.
 And then the city of West Helena annexed them and passed an ordinance saying they couldn't have a mobile home park there. And what the Supreme Court said is that when someone makes a substantial investment into a project, and it's in good faith because it was legal when that individual was starting to do that, then they actually get vested interest in being able to finish at least a portion of the project. And this time the Supreme Court said they could finish the first 25 spaces
 He had planned for more spaces, but he hadn't done very much in the bottom half. There was a drainage issue and things like that. So they didn't let him finish all 50 because he had only really worked on 25.
 But when I saw that, I realized that was very similar to what we're looking at here. I didn't realize it was that many millions that had been invested here, but I knew that it had been very expensive for them to bring the water underneath the White River—very long and difficult project, an expensive project.
 that was done in order to serve the PZD, which had been approved. So the ordinance allowed them to do the PZD. They were trying to then do the infrastructure that was needed for the PZD. They made a very substantial investment, and then of course the market, we went into the Great Recession and nobody was buying much of anything when it comes to real estate, and so they couldn't go forward.
 But as you can see in the spreadsheet, they had to keep paying every year $300,000, $400,000 in interest costs. And so what I think, this really is a decision also for the city council to make. Did they make substantial investments to, in fact, entitle them to at least some development of their property? I'm not telling you that it would get everything they would ever ask for.
 But when you look at the possible developments of this property, I think RA is very unlikely to be economically possible because you have to build such a long street for just very few lots. As you said, it's the same infrastructure as for 51 lots, but when you can only divide it by a third of the lots, then is it actually even financially feasible to do it at all?
 And so I think that what the city council needs to consider is, did they make a substantial investment? Was it done in good faith? Was it done during the time that they had the right to do it, to build this project? And that is correct. That part, I can tell you, it was done in good faith. They were investing this money when they could still build the project, and then later on they could not begin the project at that point in time because there was simply no market.
 And because of that, I think they do have some vested interest in this case. I won't tell you exactly what they are, but it seems like this particular proposal seems fairly reasonable. Fifty-one houses, an RSF-2 zoning, and actually less than an RSF-2 density, which they had had before.
 So because of that, that's why I wrote you the memo. I was surprised to see that, but I felt like I needed to inform you of that when I ran across that. And so that's why I did the memo, and I'm willing to certainly answer any questions you might have on it. Is there any questions for Ken on this? Sarah. Actually, I have a question for Jeremy first. How long before our PZDs expire? What is the term of a PZD?
 So under our previous planned zoning district ordinance, the applicant set their own expiration date. So essentially they proposed a date to you all. They felt they would complete the project within, including all the infrastructure for subdivision. It was not including all the houses being built, essentially for a final plot to be filed. And then the council essentially reviewed that application, that proposal, and approved or rejected it.
 Do we know what the original term of this PZD was? I don't. It was several years because it was built to be built out over phases, but I don't recall the exact dates. Because it seems to me as if we allowed the developer to set their own timeline for development and they were not able to fulfill their commitment to do so within that time period based on changes in the market, that seems like it was the market that it was preventing this development and not the city.
 So I am not sure whether that makes a difference, but it seems to make one. I think you're absolutely correct. It is a market that prevented the development. They could have developed if they had a market because the city would allow them. The problem we run into, and this is a very, very unusual situation. I've not seen it before, and I wonder if I'll ever see it again, and probably won't because we changed the PCD ordinance. The PCD was a zoning decision that didn't last forever.
 You know, that's questionable in my own mind why we ever did that. Every other zoning decision is permanent until it's rezoned. These, in fact, just expired and then a developer couldn't do anything. The reason there was a time limit is because at that point there was a combination of not only zoning but development. And developments usually do have expiration times. But if this had been a zoning decision that allowed them to build their development,
 Yes, they would have had to come back later and do another large-scale development or preliminary plat, but they would still have the zoning. It's only because for that period of time, we combined the two, which we later discovered in another case was...
 a dangerous way to do it, not the right way to do it, and so we have changed that now. And now, PCDs will be permanent, but they don't provide any development rights. Instead, they have to come back with a preliminary plat or a large-scale development and go through the regular process. So I think this is a very unusual situation. It's not going to repeat itself again. But in this particular case, they did this investment in good faith because they had the right to try to develop
 And so then they lost not only the right to develop, but they lost even the zoning and was changed to a zoning that really was not very feasible for them to be able to build, especially on a hillside. So I think that is why this is such an unusual situation. This is not a normal situation. I don't think I'll ever see it again.
 well it seems like the um the applicant did have the opportunity to have a zoning change instead of filing for the initial pzd but they did file for the pzd they set their own terms as to when they could complete the development then they weren't able to meet those terms due to changes in the market so it just seems like that the city is not liable for um you know we're just sticking with our agreement so i i guess those are my comments on it thank you okay so
 Any other questions from the council? Okay. Alan. I do have a question. On the spreadsheet that we were presented with, there was a city-required water pressure study that was done that cost some money. Was that a requirement by the city?
 I honestly don't know the answer to that question without doing a little more research. I would imagine that was tied to the reason that they eventually had to go and drill underneath the White River in order to get the water over there because of the
 pressure they were going to put on and other developers too paid part of the money to come underneath the White River. So there were several developers that got together. This is just their portion that was paid. Other people, other developers also paid to get that water line over and it's probably because when we forced them to do a water line test there wasn't enough water and so they had to remedy that situation in order to build their development so that's what they did. Thank you.
 I think history gives us a good perspective on what's going on, but I don't think history should govern our decision tonight. We have developers sitting here with probably close to $8 million invested, and so far they've got water run to a bunch of trees. I mean, I like trees. I like wooded areas. I like that they're pleasant. But this is the city of Fayetteville. I think it's unconscionable to make them maintain that investment and not allow them to go forward with their investment.
 If there are a group of people in this city that don't want it to be developed, I'm sure the developers will be glad to sell it to you. You can look at your seven or eight million dollars in trees. When you pay that $400,000 interest every year, you might have a second thought about developing it and whether it should be developed. We want to be sensitive to all of our residents, but my heart goes out to the people who have made this investment and have got this sitting there.
 What they're proposing is very modest development, not a grandiose large scale. And they could be going for a lot bigger development. So I'm strongly in support of it. Okay. Anybody else before we have public comment?
 Okay, we're going to open it up to the public. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Address the chair, which would be me. Don't engage anybody on the council or anybody out in the audience. Stay on topic and be as brief as you can. Please, it's like a lot of people here to discuss this. So be courteous to one another. Give us your name and address when you come to the microphone. So who would like to be first? Thank you.
 Mayor, sir, council, my name is Jay Ray. I live in 2050 South Cherry Hill Drive. I was the second house to build an entire subdivision. I built my house in 2005. Where have they been for 16 years?
 What I care about is the water. I have these pictures I'd like to give to you. It shows Dead Horse Mountain flooding five to six times a year, and it shows Cherry Hill Drive that flooded three houses during the rain. If one house gets built on that mountain, you're going to flood the entire area. May I? Yes. City Clerk.
 Until the city can fix the flooding at the corner of Cherry Hill Drive and Pumpkin Ridge, no houses should be built on that mountain whatsoever, not even a barn. That water runoff is terrible. It goes all the way to the White River, from the top of the mountain all the way down. And that's a lot of water. You put a lot of houses up there, you start erosion, and you start cutting trees down, you're going to run a lot of water to your neighbors. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who would like to address us next?
 Mr. Mayor, council members, staff, my name is Jim Lilly. I live at 1863 South Cherry Hills with my wife, and we've been there since last fall. So what's happened in the last year? You heard one of my neighbors mention one of the things. We've had five or six floodings of dead horse flooding.
 Try to go through there. I don't know how many of you have driven dead horse. I'm not addressing you to answer that. I'm just throwing it out there. If you've driven it, you know what we've experienced. We can't go out dead horse. We have to turn around and go out one of the other routes. We also, in addition, we've moved in. They've built next door to us. Construction, 3,000 square foot home.
 It's awful. It's awful. Come down Cherry Hills with those trucks, all the workers. The traffic's horrible. I'm concerned about school kids. I don't know if anybody else is concerned about school kids, but I am. They're not playing on Cherry Hills Drive. For a lot of traffic to be going through there, especially if it's business traffic, personal traffic, we're talking about increasing it substantially. I don't know what a life costs. I don't know what it costs to flood several homes.
 Recently, you probably saw Huntsville Road was extended. Did you ever try to turn from Stonebridge Meadow on to Crossover? Or excuse me, on to Huntsville? Absolute mess. Absolute mess. Now, lived in Philadelphia a while back. My wife and I did. Outside Philadelphia. Moved in one year. Was with a multinational corporation. Moved out 15 months later. Lost $100,000. So I've lost money.
 I've lost money on business ventures that went close to a million dollars. It was my mistake. Now, what happened in real estate has impacted me by having negative values on my home being underwater. And I don't know what the right trigger point is for us to make a financial decision about making a development, but it doesn't sound to me that a PZD, in any definition, is going to be the document. It has a time limit. It's like you get a loan for your home.
 and you decide to go to one where the rate can be adjusted. If you make that decision, you make that decision. Sometimes your property may fall in value, but your house payment goes up. I submit to you that real estate decisions, real estate developments, do carry heavy financial burdens at times. $8 million is a lot to lose, and I feel sorry for those folks that did that. But I've lost money in business before.
 I tell you that, it's business. It's called business. Repaying someone for a bad business decision doesn't make sense. I don't know if anybody here thinks it makes sense. A little premature, the recession hit. I worked with a lot of companies that didn't make it or lost 100 jobs. It hit. It hurt everyone. If real estate development is a business, they got hit. They got hit hard and they lose money.
 And to pay them back for bad business decisions, I don't think it's a wise thing to do. Now, I wonder, and Mayor, I'm not sure if I can even ask this question, we had people stand up if they were supporting the development. I wonder if we could have the people in Stonebridge that are supporting that development that have no interest in that development stand up. I submit that as a question, if I might. I mean, I know what I'm not supposed to ask it, but I'm curious, Mayor,
 How many folks live in the suburb? Hang on, hang on, hang on. Mr. Rhodes asked his question. I'll allow you to ask yours. All right? Thank you. Okay, folks. Let's see it. The number of Stonebridge residents that have no interest, no interest in this project. Stay with me. Stay with me. Okay. No interest in the project, but support the project. Okay. Okay? All right.
 Now, I think it was probably a different number standing. I didn't look back, but I don't know why they would support it, given that we're looking at flooding issues, safety issues, traffic issues. And quite frankly, I know we're looking at potential decreases in our property values. So, you know, all of the people that live in our area, they could lose money too. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who would like to address us next? My name's Casey Weathers. I live at 2080 South Pumpkin Ridge Drive. I will be the first house that is in Ground Zero. Everybody that's coming up here to talk tonight is secondary, third, fourth in line to where the water is coming. I've had to sandbag my house numerous times. But I will tell you that that water came off the mountain, but on the wrong side.
 That water came off the east side of the mountain with a farm that sits directly behind my house. The way the mountain is, it's draining towards the golf course, not towards my house. I do have a stake in all of the water runoff. I'm confident that if this gets passed, then we can work with the developers and with the staff, the engineering staff, that...
 have the degrees, that have the knowledge of how to do this, can rectify the current issues on top of what the potential issue that is going to be brought to the table. Now I stood up here the very first time that it was rezoned for RSF 4 and the appeal and I was opposed to the project. My two arguments at that point were that
 that we were going to have one ingress and egress into the subdivision, and that was going to be my driveway. That's right by my house. And, of course, I was opposed to that. I've got young kids. They play in the street. They play in the yard. That's what kids do. Everybody here, I feel, that stood up and commented about the easement in and out and asked if there was another entrance in,
 They would say they would go forward with the project. They would agree that the developers are making a fair attempt. I agree with that. They have taken on the financial burden of extending the road out to Dead Horse Mountain. They are giving us this bill of assurance that the construction traffic, I think, Mr. Williams, you said that the additional road coming into Pumpkin Ridge Drive, the attachment to that...
 would most likely be done after the code makes it after 30 homes. The initial drive would be on Pumpkin Ridge or I'm sorry, Dead Horse Mountain Road. So I have to stand up here as a person that opposed it first, agree that the subdivision as platted the second time around is the best of the two evils per se.
 If they went in now and did one house per two acres, they could come right by my house with 100% of the traffic, versus now they're offering an exit out to Deadhorse. Now, when it comes to the flooding on Deadhorse, a flood is a flood, and I'm not a professional by any means, but I'm not sure there's a difference between, and I'm talking about a flood on Deadhorse Mountain Road where they built the new bridge,
 and Stonebridge where they kind of meet. I don't think there's a difference between three foot of water that nobody drives through and six foot of water that nobody drives through. I don't foresee that building these homes on this mountain where the water is going to be channeled through the golf course and out through Crescent Lake and out east of where this flooding is already happening. That water runs everywhere.
 out to the river to the east. That water does not run west. So I have to say that I would like to see the subdivision as platted, RSF2, be rezoned, and that it's the best of the two situations in my part. Now I have to remind you, I am ground zero for this.
 The other neighbors have a stock into this, but my 100% livelihood, my children and my home are affected by this subdivision going in. I think the exit is...
 An entrance on Deadhorse takes care of 80% of my issues with traffic, if not more. The flooding, that comes when the subdivision is being developed and through the stages of design and work with those groups and with the city to be able to establish some type of plan in order to rectify our current issue on top of what's going to be brought into it with those situations.
 I appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello. Hi. My name is Helen Carlton. I graduated from Fayetteville in Arkansas, U of A, 1991. I left the state for some time, but in 2003, my husband and I decided to make Fayetteville our home, and we wanted to raise our family here.
 I've been married to Clay Carlton for almost 13 years. I remember when Mike and Clay first bought the property. We thought it was so beautiful, and we were so excited regarding the potential to build homes with amazing views, wooded lots, along a golf course, and of course, convenient location close to downtown Fayetteville. I've spent a lot of time over the years with my two kids camping,
 hiking, searching for golf balls on the land. Unfortunately, the real estate market crash in 2008 put a stop to all of the hard work and dreams of this community. I watched Mike and Clay tread water to stay afloat and do the right thing instead of leaving a graveyard of half-developed land like so many other developers did back then. Mike and Clay worked hard and continued to pay the bank
 We kept telling our kids it was the right thing to do and if we worked hard, that someday we could continue with the dream of this community. So they're just finally getting the chance to start a once unanimously approved project in which they have already spent millions of dollars. This decision has a huge impact on my family and the families wanting to own a house in such a unique area.
 I've tried to sell this property, but the reality is every phone call that I get is someone wanting a half acre, not 137 acres. I sincerely would like to ask for all of you, for all of your support, and to please stand up for this project. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to be next? Good evening, Mayor. My name is Larry Altman. I live at 2059 South Cherry Hills Drive.
 And I have some prepared remarks, but just in listening to the comments by Mr. Jordan and Mr. Carlton and now Mrs. Carlton about what has happened since 2005 and the downturn in the economy. My house was built in 2006, the one I live in now and have been living in for almost three years now.
 My house was built in 2006 and most of the homes out in Stonebridge Meadows were built, have been built since that time. You know, Jay Ray got up first and said that his house was the second house out there. So the thing about the economy and the downturn and the recession, I just, you know, wonder how all the homes out in Stonebridge Meadows were built in the last 10 years. Um,
 There's been a lot of homes built out there in the last 10 years. There's been many, many homes built out there since I moved into my home three years ago. So I just wonder what Mr. Carlton and his company were doing during the time that all the homes in Stonebridge Meadows were being built. Anyway, as I said, we live on Cherry Hills Drive, and my wife and I, we really enjoy where we live more than anywhere else we've lived in Arkansas.
 and that's been a number of years, 16 since I retired from the Air Force. When the weather's nice, we like to sit out on our back patio and enjoy the beautiful view of the golf course and the surrounding hills covered in trees. Someone has said that we are only concerned about this proposed development because we're worried about losing our beautiful view. However, it's not about the view, Mr. Mayor. It's about the vision.
 The vision I refer to is the vision that is contained in Fayetteville City Plan 2030. In the book of Proverbs, chapter 29, verse 18, says, where there is no vision, the people are unrestrained. George Washington Carver said it this way, where there is no vision, there is no hope. Most people look to their leaders to provide vision.
 and thankfully the leaders of Fayetteville have provided us with a vision for our city in the form of a document called City Plan 2030. My wife and I have read this document many times over the past year and we sincerely believe that it's a great vision for the future of Fayetteville and we're thankful to the citizens of Fayetteville and our city leaders for taking the time, making the effort and dedicating the resources to put this plan together.
 I'm sure that many of us heard the report on Channel 5 last night on the news about the US News and World Report placing Fayetteville at the very top of the list for the most affordable places to live in Fayetteville and US News and World Report also ranked Fayetteville Arkansas number three as a one of the best places to live in this country so I don't think that Fayetteville has to worry about growth and
 I think that we have to worry about how we're going to grow, and I think that City Plan 2030 addresses that concern. A few people said during the appeal hearings last year that City Plan 2030 is just a plan. It's not a binding document. Well, I say what good is a plan if we don't follow it? Going back to Proverbs 29 that I mentioned earlier, I only read half of the verse.
 There's a colon after the first half of that verse, and after the colon it continues by saying, but he that keeps the law, happy is he. In other words, it's not enough to just have a vision, but we must also keep the vision and stick with the plan. While it may be true that you sometimes have to deviate from the plan, it should only be because things have changed dramatically. So I ask...
 What has really changed about this rezoning appeal since last year that would make you want to deviate from the vision of our city plan? What's different about this rezoning appeal from the appeal that was made last year? The only significant change we can see is that the developers are asking for twice the amount of acres, 35 versus 17, and 15 more houses, 15 houses instead of 35 that they asked for last year.
 So what would cause you to change your mind about this rezoning? What has dramatically changed that would cause you to deviate from the vision of our city plan? Last year, the City Planning Commission voted against this rezoning by a wide margin. Their decision was appealed and this City Council, by a vote of 6-2, said no, it's not in keeping with our vision for what we want Fayetteville to become. On April 25th of this year,
 The Planning Commission voted a second time by a 6-2 decision against the rezoning of this property because it does not meet the vision and goals of our city plan. As I stated last year, this rezoning appeal is only a first step of what undoubtedly will be subsequent requests for more rezoning of this property. So our larger concern is not just this 35 acres and 50 houses.
 but for the whole mountainside which contains 132 acres. The owners have stated in their most recent letter of appeal which you have that they would like to build more homes on this property after this first development is completed. Their appeal letter also lists several side issues that have no bearing on the real issue. And I'm talking about the the bill of assurance about bringing the construction through Dead Horse Mountain and about
 the way that they're going to develop the property. These are all side issues. The real issue here is about the proper zoning for this particular piece of property on the edge of Fayetteville on a mountainside. We happen to agree with the decisions made by the Planning Commission for two years in a row, and we hope the City Council will again this year see the merit in their decision and support
 our collective vision for Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us tonight? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council members. First of all, I'm really not about to cry. It's just my voice trembles when I stand in front of people to talk. But one thing I have not heard being addressed tonight, and it was one of the major...
 Could you please state your name for the record? I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm Karen Mathis, and I live at 3848 Spyglass Hill Drive in Stonebridge Meadows. And one of the council members objected because of the fact that the West Fork White River is an impaired waterway, and this development is...
 there's no way it's not going to have an impact on the river. So I haven't heard that being addressed tonight, but that is a big concern for me. And again, I'm really not about to cry, just my voice. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us tonight? Thank you. My name is Jeannie Stutzman. I live at 3970 East Byglass Hill in Stonebridge.
 Think probably what I would like to say because I don't want to just keep going over the same thing everyone else has said is that I'm really not opposed to These people developing this as it is currently zoned I just don't believe that all those additional houses in this piece and the next piece and the next piece is in the best interest of our neighborhood and
 In the morning, the traffic that is trying to get out of Stonebridge Meadows onto the Dead Horse Mountain Road and to the light and in the rain, and it's a lot of traffic. And as you could see tonight, we have new developments all the way up Dead Horse Mountain Road on either side of the road.
 Traffic is coming down that hill fast, and I'm a little bit nervous about it. I just think if you leave that property-zoned agriculture and let them go ahead and build some pretty nice homes up there on that hillside, maybe everybody could win. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor, Council, thank you for hearing us today.
 My name is Wanda Altman. I live at 2059 South Cherry Hills Drive. I would like to begin with a couple of comments before I give my prepared comments. I'm not at all sure that the situation in Helena, I believe, that Mr. Williams was talking about, is the same. The city of Fayetteville didn't annex this property and, you know,
 jerk the rug out from under the developers, they allowed the zoning to expire. And as it has been said, other houses were being built out there continually, 2005, 2006, right up until the present, because our house, built in 2006, was in phase three, and there have been several phases after that. So the idea that somehow they couldn't build because they were going to sit empty, I'm
 That isn't what's happened because if that's the case, then none of Stonebridge Meadows and the other surrounding neighborhoods there would be there.
 But I'm really concerned about the environmental impact of this rezoning on this pristine mountainside on the periphery of Fayetteville. This property is just the kind of land that should be protected under the city plan 2030. And this rezoning would be a reversal of city policy and a step in the wrong direction for Fayetteville. I know we've been told this.
 2030 plan, it's not in stone, but what it is is a shared vision of what we want Fayetteville to be. And it should be a tool used to make responsible decisions to make sure that Fayetteville goes in the direction that we've planned and becomes or remains the kind of city that we want to live in.
 When it comes to zoning, we have two big issues, I think, according to city planning and to the city planning commission, and that's prevailing land use and compatibility, not proximity to the town square, by the way. And that's what differentiates property on the periphery from that inside the city.
 The proposed rezoning is not consistent with the land planning objectives and the policies as outlined in the 2030 plan. For what is it that surrounds this piece of property? There's another forested mountain, there's open pastures, there's undeveloped property, and sparsely populated farmland. Thank you.
 Rezoning this property would be setting a dangerous precedent for, as we've seen, one housing development would be used to justify continued suburban sprawl. The question would be asked, and I suppose rightly so, how can we rezone this piece of property and not other similar properties? As we've heard tonight, one rezoning of property would be used to justify the next and the next and the next.
 There's no end to that downward spiral. Where does it stop? There's always another piece of property and another developer who would like to have it rezoned, so there's no stopping point for that. Great cities don't just happen. They're planned, carefully and responsibly, one decision at a time. This isn't just another piece of property. It's a big part of what makes Fayetteville a beautifully unique place to live, and why many of us have chosen to live here.
 We have just one chance tonight or the next reading to get this right. We can always turn a pristine mountainside into another housing development, but we can't turn a housing development back into a pristine mountainside. And so I ask you to consider this issue carefully because it's not just this mountainside perched above Stonebridge Meadows that's on the chopping block tonight.
 It's the future of Fayetteville, and it's our shared vision of what Fayetteville should be that's really at risk. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Diane Waters, and I live at 2032 Pumpkin Ridge. And there's been a lot of discussion about substantial use and money invested and all that. And the only comment I have is what price do we put?
 on environment and beauty and a mountain that harbors beautiful animals. We start putting more houses in there, we're going to lose that, we're going to lose that beautiful area of green that people can look upon from very many places around the city, that you can see that mountain and that area.
 And I don't think you can put a price tag on that. And yes, I understand that the investments have been heavy, but what price are you going to put on your city and on your resources and your surroundings and your environment? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yes, please. Pierce Osborne. I live at 540 Crest Drive. I was partly involved with this project initially back when...
 It seemed like it would work and I just like to say none of us ever want a project beside us There's nobody in this room that wants a project built beside us I just don't think it's right that the city approved this at one point and seems to have Changed what what the rules are? It's a unique situation as a counselor. Williams said I just feel like I
 this is a good project for us it's it's not dissimilar from what's going to go on all around this area in the future so i hope you'll i hope you reconsider and and pass this for us thank you who else like to address us on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council who'd like to start nobody adela mayor i would just like to say that
 I would agree with what Dr. Pierce Osborne has just said, and that is, you know, essentially we have changed the rules in the middle of the game, and I think that's a very sad thing. So I hope we'll think really, really hard about not allowing these developers to develop
 Folks, we know that hill is going to be developed. And I think that we know that this plan that they have brought forward is a plan that I think everyone would agree is a reasonable plan. Maybe you'd prefer to have one house per two acres. If it's not financially feasible, we cannot ask developers to do that.
 I hope that you'll think very hard about what we're saying to developers who want to develop in Fayetteville. You know, you know, we cannot ask these men, these individuals who have this money invested, to let that beautiful hill sit there so we can all enjoy it. The city bought Kessler Mountain, but we cannot buy Kessler.
 every mountain around town just to sit there so we can enjoy it that isn't going to happen thank you okay who else would like okay what y'all want to do mayor excuse me I I still can't support this plan I do I think that the developers uh
 you know, are making a good faith effort to try to do better in order to recoup their investment. As a person who did lose a lot in the recession, I have a lot of empathy for them. However, we have a commitment to our city with the 2030 City Plan and this development is very contrary to the principles that are enshrined in that plan. Our Planning Commission and our staff have both recommended denial
 of this request and I think that they did so with very good reason we still have not resolved the flooding concerns you know the reality is that this is a wooded hillside next to an impaired waterway which being the West Fork of the White River and I don't see this development as being beneficial for the condition of that waterway or the
 the flooding concerns of those neighbors downhill. I also think that this sets a very dangerous precedent for future development in this area. Because once we have a neighborhood here, then what's to keep us from putting a neighborhood further up the hill and further exacerbating these other problems? And that's in addition to the traffic. So I'm gonna support the Planning Commission and staff's recommendation in denying this request.
 Okay, well we're all on the first reading everybody knows so anybody else Sorry, yes Adela. I move that we go to the second reading please. John. I second that motion We have a motion to go and a second to go to the second reading. Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes
 No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. That is five votes, Mayor, so if you care to vote yes, then it will pass. No. I'm going to let it sit two weeks. I'm not going to vote. All right, then. The motion failed. So we're leaving it on the first reading, and it will be back in three weeks. Okay.
 Yes. I did want to register some thoughts I had. My main concern is that the cost of the infrastructure is not something that's borne by the project and I appreciated Mr. Rhodes' remarks that we could mitigate some of those by building more homes. I didn't quite make up my mind though. I'm very sensitive to staff's comments in the packet that they made to the Planning
 Essentially, this is on the edge of town and the first step to stopping development on the edge, making things more compact is to stop letting more development happening on the edge. But all that's to say, I do think there are very meaningful improvements that have been made since last time. Mm-hmm.
 it does quite honestly give me pause even though i would normally default without really thinking about it too hard voting against this there is something though that i'm still very concerned about and those are the water quality issues and yeah i understand the topography i understand which way the water is going and how that's relevant to some of the comments or may not be relevant some of the comments we've heard but some water quality specifically that i'm talking about
 This would be, I don't know that it would make up my mind, but it would make it easier for me to vote yes if there was a commitment in writing to low impact development water quality treatment. That's a good point. And keep in mind, really, I just read the city attorney's memo today, but in the conclusion, I certainly encourage you,
 to be sure you have that down when there's things like the very unusual circumstances of falling waters, PCD approval, coupled with the costs bore under the White River to bring water suits and development could trigger vested interest in the development rights for the property, right? Refusing to allow any economically feasible development on any of the falling waters, forests, and hillside property probably found to be unconstitutional and deprivation of preexisting use rights. So,
 I think those are good points that you need to remember as well. So, having said that, we'll see everybody in two weeks. All right. Three, three weeks. Sorry, three weeks. We get a Tuesday off. All right. That's an interesting discussion. All right, let's move along to number two.
 an ordinance the way to become a form of competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the u.s geological survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality samplings and monitoring at various locations in the city of federal 2016 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred twenty one dollars kit
 Whereas since 1998, the City of Fayetteville has participated in a joint funding agreement with the United States Geological Survey for the operation and maintenance of three urban stream gauging stations to record data concerning rainfall and runoff at Nyokoska Creek in Gully Park, College Branch at State Highway 62, and Town Branch Tributary in Walker Park. And whereas in 2015, the City modified its agreement.
 with the USGS to begin monitoring major pollutant levels at Town Branch and Mud Creek, and the City will continue this monitoring to provide more accurate information regarding the pollutants leaving the City at these points. And whereas the USGS, which purchased and installed the monitoring equipment at no cost to the City, provides these services at a cost much lower than the City could receive from any other provider.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Favola, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Favola, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a joint funding agreement, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance I made a part hereof,
 between the city of Fayetteville and the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville for 2016 with the amount paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $61,721. Mayor Redekopal
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I think the ordinance describes the arrangement pretty well. I will add or just clarify, we had two stations, one on Town Branch, one on Mud Creek.
 that are water quality stations as well as quantity. And then the third on Neocosco Creek is simply a flood stage quantity gauge. This is proposed to be funded jointly by the Water and Sewer Division funds as well as Engineering Division funds split 50-50. And I'll answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Chris on this? Anybody?
 okay any public comment on this i'm sorry mark you do have the floor i apologize uh this has gone before the water sewer committee and we did want to support this and bring it forward
 Again, we're talking about water quality here. This is important on several levels. One, we're trying to establish good baselines as we move forward with our arguments in front of the ADEQ regarding the sediment and pollution load and the activity that may establish standards as we move forward. So it's very important that we get this data that is empirical data that we can use to justify our arguments.
 That's why we need to go ahead and get this taken care of. Okay. Any public comments on this? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Mr. Mayor, I noticed something I'd like to change in the ordinance. When Blake wrote this, he said that the joint funding agreement was attached to the ordinance and made a part of it, which would mean that our clerk would have to publish it in the paper. Okay.
 And as we try to save the clerk money from having to do that, just like descriptions and maps in rezoning ordinances, I'd like to amend that to say attached to the engineering division's agenda item so that she does not have to publish that in the newspaper. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Emmett would read what, Kent?
 It would basically read that we waive the formal competitive bidding and approve the joint funding agreement, a copy of which is attached to the engineering division's agenda item between the City of Fayetteville. So it would simply not make it a formal attachment to the ordinance because, as you remember, the Attorney General came out and said everything that might be attached to the ordinance now has to be published in the newspaper.
 sometimes these agreements are fairly lengthy and don't really need to be published in the new statement so if you would make that amendment i would appreciate it okay mark yep i mean if we amend as uh suggested by the city attorney sarah second okay we have a motion second to amend to the city attorney's recommendation is there any public comment on this
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I have a motion to second any final comments on the amendment. Shall the amendment pass? Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Wong? Yes. Rice? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Otero? Yes. Okay. Mark? I move we accept the ordinance as published. You want to move to suspend the rules? You can go to the second reading. Yes. I'm sorry. Okay. We have a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Matthew? Yes.
 I'll second that, but I'd like to make a comment. Sure, sure. One of the things I noticed a year ago when we wrote a grant to do some things on Mud Creek, people may not realize in Fayetteville, but Mud Creek is one of the most polluted creeks in the state. And it's because there's so much, essentially because there's so much pavement around it.
 And I didn't know this until I got into it and I was stunned to learn that it was one of the most polluted waterways in the state because Fayetteville has a reputation, you know, being who we are. And one of the things I learned was that in the first hour during a rain event, the water that's entering creeks like Mud Creek is more polluted than sewage. And in any case, you know, I want to...
 raise awareness of this because I think a lot of times we don't realize that monitoring is Necessary more than that doing a lot more than monitoring is necessary, too I mean we're gonna have to take active steps to repair something mud creek and I want to make this point for the council and public together because I hope that We come to some consensus in future budget discussions about this maybe pursue some extra grant opportunities because I
 monitoring for 60,000 is really only the beginning. Mark? I have already. Okay. Okay. Okay. Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Cady? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Sennett? Yes. McTier? Yes. McTier?
 And ordinance the way the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorized a joint funding agreement with the United States geological survey for a stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the city of Fayetteville for 2016 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred and twenty one dollars Sure, I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading mark. I
 second that if motion to say you go to the third and final read shall the motion pass yes yes
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Yes. Yes. And to ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a joint funding agreement with the United States Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring at various locations in the City of Fayetteville for 2016 with the amount paid by the City not to exceed $61,721. Any final comments from the Council?
 Shall the ordinance pass? Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Leter. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number three, an ordinance to amend 92.31, dangerous animals to provide the animal services division with additional options to declare an animal dangerous and allow rehoming of a dangerous animal with the approval of the animal services superintendent and to enact a new 92.07, inhumane traps prohibitive kit.
 Whereas the City Code currently requires behavioral observation by the Animal Control Officer where a foreign animal may be declared dangerous, and other options should be given to Animal Services staff to further enhance the safety of our citizens. And whereas the City Code also prohibits the rehoming of a dangerous animal, even if the Animal Services Division determines that rehoming would be in the best interest of Fayetteville residents and the animal itself, and whereas following the death of a citizen's pet in
 cat in a jaw trap that was set out by a neighbor attempting to catch groundhogs, staff recommends enacting a prohibition on the use of inhumane traps in the city. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 92.31 and enact a replacement of Section 92.31 as shown below
 Quote, an animal may be designated by the Animal Services Division as a dangerous animal, as defined in Section 9201 definitions, by any of the following procedures. Number one,
 Upon the filing of a complaint with the animal services division against the owner or harbor of an animal and based upon the behavior observation of the animal by animal control officer to Upon the filing of a sworn affidavit with the city prosecutor against the owner or harbor of an animal and based upon a review of The affidavit and any supporting evidence by an animal control officer three following the designation of the animal as dangerous or vicious by any other governmental body or agency and
 A dangerous animal shall be kept and confined in accordance with this section. Section 2 that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the last sentence of Section 92.31B to read as shown below. Quote, the dangerous animal shall not be sold or given away without the written authorization of the Animal Services Superintendent.
 Section 3 that the City Council city of fablark's are hereby annex a new section 9207 Inhumane traps prohibited as shown below No person shall set or cause to be set any snare body gripping trap body crushing trap deadfall trap leg hold trap or any trap or snare that captures an animal other than rats and mice or
 by gripping or snaring any part of the animal, including its body, head, neck, or limb, or that maims or causes the inhumane death or suffering of any animal.
 Okay. Except for mice and rats. Yeah, sounds like an episode of Game of Thrones. Anyways, good evening council and mayor. We have some, obviously some changes to our ordinances before you tonight. The first changes obviously do come to our 92.31, which is dangerous animals restricted. We
 We do have a separate section that deals with vicious animals, which is a little higher level of aggressive animals. So this is just kind of your entry level.
 Dangerous animal. So as it stands right now, we can only deem or start to declare an animal dangerous if one of our three animal control officers, which by the way work seven days a week, 24 hours a day for different things, so there's only three of them, so they have to have first-hand observation of dangerous behavior from an animal. As you can imagine, usually when complaints come in, by the time that we are able to get out there and respond, the incident's usually over.
 we're kind of left with what's left to see what we can observe. And animals, obviously, when they're out of a situation, act a lot different than when they're in the situation.
 This would just allow us a little bit more flexibility in initiating these dangerous animal investigations. So the first one would be to allow for a citizen who's willing to make a sworn affidavit to go ahead and swear that in, put that in as evidence, and allow us to consider other evidence available like bite wounds or other witness reports, maybe past behavior reports that we've had.
 to go ahead and start making that determination if they're dangerous. And then the other option would also be if another municipality has already deemed that animal dangerous or vicious in there.
 city limits then we could take that into consideration and decide if we wanted to move forward and go ahead and do that here that way we're not kind of left into a waiting game where we know that these animals perhaps have a bad history or a negative history and we're just kind of in a waiting game to see if they're gonna do it here in our city
 The other change to the dangerous animals restricted currently the way it's written the person who owns the dangerous animal is not allowed to sell or give away their animal. We would like to change that to where they could with written permission from the animal services superintendent whoever's in that position.
 The reason behind that is just to give us a little bit more flexibility in dealing with these animals. Sometimes it's not always that they are inherently bad. Sometimes it's just the particular situation they're in or the particular owner that they have.
 that is not quite as responsible as one might need to be with a certain type of animal. We had a situation last year where we actually ended up charging a person with fishes because we had tried dangerous and they weren't abiding by the restrictions in that, which by the way are that your pet be spayed or neutered, microchip, up-to-date on shots, that you keep them in a locked enclosure outside if you have a gate, there's a lock on it, post signs warning people that you
 have a dangerous animal on the premises. So it's not, we don't require like a lot of insurance or anything like that. This particular dog owner was still just not, their dog just kept continually getting out to the point of where we had to move forward with Vicious and then the judge in that case took ownership from that owner, gave it to animal services, we were able to place that dog, the judge asked us to try to place the dog into an appropriate home which we were able to do and now the dog is actually a service dog for a veteran. So I think that worked out really well.
 They would still have to have written permission from us so we would still be able to track where the animals going from here So we would know so those are the changes that we're looking at for Our dangerous animals restricted and then the other Change that we're looking to make is to prevent the use of inhumane traps We do have an ordinance currently that you can't molest or kill or maim wildlife. However, there is no specific Prohibition against using these traps even though they're
 their only purpose is to do just that. And unfortunately, last year, we had a citizen who was trying to catch some wildlife that had been doing some destruction on his property and instead caught the neighbor's cat. It was very traumatic for everybody involved, and it kind of opened our eyes that there was this little loophole that we really needed to close, not that it's a huge problem, but it's definitely one that we wanted to address. Okay. What questions do we have for Justine on this? Mark, I believe you're...
 This has been to the Animal Services Advisory Committee and they overwhelmingly wanted to bring it forward to City Council. So, when appropriate, I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. John? Justine, when you talk about wild animals and, you know, we don't want to use inhumane treatment of them, would that include, like, poisonous snakes?
 I mean, I suppose if you thought your life was in danger, I don't think anybody's going to come out and write you a ticket for killing a snake. Thank you. For sure. I will chop off their head. Yeah, and, you know, I mean, that's not something that we're out there doing. But just if you have, you know, a raccoon or something in your trash, well, we advise you, A, to keep your trash up and just try to bait it that way. But we do, people do use humane traps, and there are professional wildlife trappers that make their business in northwest Arkansas that we can refer people to.
 thank you okay uh alan i'd like to second the motion on the floor okay hang on there mark we're back to you okay okay uh what public comment do we have on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council we have a motion and a second to go to the second rating correct right shall the motion pass
 Marsh? Yes. Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Indian? Yes. Indian? Yes. Yes. And in order to amend Section 92.31, Dangerous Animals, to provide the Animal Services Division with additional options to declare an animal dangerous and allow the rehoming of a dangerous animal with the approval of the Animal Services Superintendent and to enact a new Section 9207, Inhumane Traps Prohibited.
 motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading yes second we have motion to second to go to the third and final read shall the motion pass march yes yes yes
 an ordinance to amend section 92.31 dangerous animals to provide the animal services division with additional options to declare an animal dangerous and allow the rehoming of a dangerous animal with the approval of the animal services superintendent and to enact a new section 9207 inhumane traps prohibited okay any final comments from the council okay shall the ordinance pass
 Marsh? Yes. McKinney? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Bennett? Yes. McHarris? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, number four. An ordinance calling and setting a date for a special election on the question of one, the raising by one and one-half mills, the current one.
 mill city tax on real and personal property, supporting the maintenance and operation of the federal public library. And two, imposition of one and two-tenths mill city tax on real and personal property to be pledged to an issue or issues of bonds not to exceed $26,500,000 in principal amount to finance capital improvements to the federal public library prescribing other matters pertaining thereto and declaring an emergency. Kip.
 Whereas under the authority of Amendment 30 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, there has been submitted to the mayor a petition asking that the question of an increase by one and a half mils of the current one mil city tax on real and personal property supporting maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library has been submitted, you know,
 a petition asking that the question of the imposition of 1.2 mils of city tax on real and personal property to secure up to $26,500,000 in principal amount of bonds to finance capital improvements to the Fayetteville Public Library be submitted to the electors of the city. And whereas the city clerk has ascertained that the signatures of at least 100 taxpaying electors of the city are present on each petition,
 And whereas the purpose of this ordinance is to call a special election on the questions described above in accordance with provisions of Amendment 30 and the Arkansas Code Annotated Sections 7-11-201 at Sec. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that there be and there is hereby called a special election to be held on Tuesday, August 9, 2016, at which election there shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the city the questions of, one, the increase by one and a half mils of the current one mil city tax on real and personal property supporting maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library, and two...
 the imposition of 1.2 mil city tax on real and personal property to secure up to 26.5 million dollars in principal amount of bonds to finance capital improvements through the Fayetteville Public Library including, but not limited to, construction of new buildings, parking decks, additions, annexes, and other expansion and renovation projects. Section 2.
 that the question shall be placed on the ballot for the special election in substantially the following forms. Question 1.
 Pursuant to Amendment 30 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, there is submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, the question of the increase by one and a half mils of the current one mil city tax on real and personal property supporting maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library. Vote on the question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against.
 4. Raising by 1.5 mills the current 1-mill city tax on real and personal property to be used for maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library, a public city library. Or against raising by 1.5 mills the current 1-mill city tax on real and personal property to be used for the maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library, a public city library. 2.
 Pursuant to Amendment 30 of the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, there is submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, the question of the imposition of a 1.2 mil city tax on real and personal property to secure up to $26.5 million in principal amount of bonds to finance capital improvements to the Fayetteville Public Library.
 unless the increase by one and a half million mills of the city tax on real and personal property to be used for maintenance and operation of the city Operation of Fayetteville Public Library is also approved The one and a half tax a mill tax on city real personal property be played for capital improvements bonds will not be imposed and The bonds will not be issued by the city vote on the question by placing the X in one of the following squares following the question either for or against and
 For a one and two tenths mill city tax on real and personal property within the City to be pledged to the issue or issues of bonds not to exceed $26.5 million in aggregate principal amount to finance capital improvements to the favor of public library, a public city library to authorize the issuance of bonds on such terms and conditions as shall be approved by the City.
 or against a one and two-tenths mill city tax on real and personal property within the city to be pledged to an issue or issues of bonds not to exceed twenty-six and a half million dollars in the aggregate principal amount, to finance capital improvements to the favor of a public city library, and to authorize the issuance of the bonds on such terms and conditions as shall be approved by the city.
 That the election shall be held and conducted, and the vote canvassed, and the results declared, under the law, and in the matter now provided for Arkansas municipal elections, unless otherwise provided by Amendment 30, and only qualified voters of the city shall have the right to vote at the election.
 Section 4, that a copy of this ordinance shall be given to the Washington County Clerk and the Washington County Board of Election Commissioners not later than June 7, 2016, so that the necessary election officials and supplies may be provided.
 Section 5 that the results of the special election have been proclaimed by the mayor and his proclamation Shall be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation within the city The proclamation shall advise that the results as provided shall be conclusive Unless attacked in the circuit court of Washington County within 30 days after the date of publication of the proclamation. I
 Section 6 at the mayor and city clerk for and on behalf of the city be and they hereby are Authorized and directed to any and all things necessary to call and hold the special elections as herein provided Section 7 that all ordinances and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such section 8 emergency clause
 This millage election was long delayed by litigation against Washington Regional Medical Center and the City of Fayetteville, contesting clear title to the property to be sold to the Fayetteville Public Library for possible use if Question 2 is approved by the voters. The Arkansas Court of Appeals unanimously affirmed the Washington Regional's quiet title action on April 27, 2016, allowing the special election to proceed.
 In order to hold the special election on the preferred date of August 9, 2016, this ordinance needs to go into effect without delay. It is hereby ascertained and declared that there is a critical need to obtain additional sources of revenue to maintain and operate the Fayetteville Public Library and to finance needed capital improvements thereto, all in order to promote and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the City.
 It is therefore declared that emergency exists, and this ordinance, being necessary for the immediate preservation of public peace, health, and safety, shall be enforced in effect immediately from and after its passage. Mayor, this is a request from the...
 Board of Trustees of the Library asking for the setting of a date for a special election, considering the two questions as Kit read. One, increasing operating millage for the library by one and a half mills, and two,
 Question two, increasing the millage by 1.2 mils for capital improvements at the library to fund a potential bond issue of $26.5 million.
 So this is coming forward at this point in time. Now to meet the timetable of August 9th for the election, it would have to be approved by the council by the June 7th meeting. The mayor has agreed to call a special council meeting if we need one to fully vetted and give it the three readings if we do need that at that point in time.
 in the audience today, representatives from the library. David Johnson, who's the executive director. We also have in the audience Beau Biddle from Stevens, who did the work as far as the financing on the capital improvement, potential capital improvement would be involved. We also have Gordon Wilburn, who is from Kutak Rock, who did the legal work on the ballot question.
 and also would handle any potential bond issue if, in fact, it is improved. And, David, if you'd like to come forward, if you have any specific questions, David would be happy to address them, and I would be happy to address any questions if I can. Good evening, David. Mayor. Any statements you'd like to make, or you just want to? Well, you know, it's obvious for anyone who comes to the library any time of day now that it is literally being loved to death.
 I think in the year of 2015 we averaged 184 people an hour coming to the library. They're utilizing a full range of resources, everything that we have in terms of materials, but also our meeting rooms, our study rooms, all of the resources available there.
 We're no longer just a traditional library in the consumer mode of where you come and check out materials. We're more of a library where people come and take advantage of a wide range of the various assets.
 When you look at the measure and how well we're being loved to death today, and then look at the future population growth, I hear everything from 35 people a day to 740 people a week, and we talk about quality of life. Our library is central to what we define as our quality of life.
 continue to provide that quality to people, we need to grow in anticipation of the people that will be coming. Are there any other questions? What questions do we have for David? John. Good evening, David. How do we arrive at the August 9th date?
 When we back out, the need, when you start with we need revenue, six tenths of the operating mill that we're asking for will be applied to the 2017 budget year. And in order to get that money into that 2017 year, we have to back out when the tax has to be on the books and starting to collect. And then we have to back out from there.
 to where September is off the books because there's a school board elections, and August was the earliest date that we could hold an election and have the revenue available to us in 2017. So if we had the election on November 8th,
 It would be too late. It'd be too late. Yes, sir. So you wouldn't get the money? The money would not be in there available for the 2017 budgeting year in that fashion. Could you amend your budgeting year and get it in there? We've already cut $1.5 million out of our budget over the past four years. I think that we're running as lean as we can be, and we need those funds as quickly as we can have them. I congratulate you on your budget cutting activities.
 I presume you cut things that were non-essential services for the public? Yes, sir. The things we held sacred were hours of operation, but what we did cut were two years. We took about $70,000 out of our book budget. We've taken money out of our facilities and maintenance. We've taken funds out of our programming. Our staff went without a raise when city employees got a raise in 2015. We have had a long-range revenue committee that...
 We got together, made up of community members, and then we came out with a list of ways to increase revenue in terms of increasing our fines and fees. We started renting out our meeting room spaces. We've done everything we can to cut and generate revenue wherever possible. I applaud your efforts.
 I'm concerned the paper, Mr. Williams, you might give some insight on this, I understand the Court of Appeals unanimously affirmed the city's position in the lawsuit. Have any of the parties appealed to the state Supreme Court? The Stoneheirs, who have lost all the way through here, had seven judges unanimously say that what the city and Washington Regional did was absolutely correct in the proper result.
 They did also ask for review to the Arkansas Supreme Court. We've replied to that, as has Washington Regional. We do not believe that there's any merit in their appeal, but at this point in time, the Arkansas Supreme Court has yet to actually make a final decision on that review. We have hopes it'll be this week. We're waiting for that, and we feel that the case is,
 We feel like the circuit judge made a very correct and proper decision, and six judges from the Court of Appeals unanimously approved that and agreed to it. So we believe that we're in very strong shape in front of the Supreme Court, but they have not rendered their decision yet about whether they would review the case.
 So the millage that we're asking voters to increase to finance the bond is to build buildings on land that we're not sure we can acquire yet. We do have a plan. It hasn't...
 Going all the way through the system. We do have an option for expansion on the Blair footprint What we're trying to avoid is if that becomes that it's less if the City Hospital property is not available to us We can expand on the Blair footprint, but our concern is disruption of operations It will mean shutting down portions of the library. It might mean displacing the library for a period of time. So
 With utilization of the city hospital property will continue our operating hours. We will never have to shut down We'll be able to decant part of what we do into the new facility while we do all of the renovations in the existing building So we do have a plan that if for some reason whatever the city hospital property does not come our way we can still expand and accommodate our needs and
 I guess my main problem with this proposal on August 9th is I view it as voter suppression. A special election, we have notoriously low voter turnout. If we had this at the general election, we'd have a much higher voter turnout. If the citizens of Fayetteville want to vote themselves a tax increase to build a library 20 times the size of the existing one, that's all well and good.
 so long as it's the citizens of Fayetteville, not a select 5% or 10% of the population. That's why I'd like to see this move to a general election date instead of a special election date, and it's probably precisely why the promoters of this tax want to have it on a special election date, because they see some advantage in getting it passed. Taxes are notoriously unpopular with our citizens. They are notoriously unpopular with me. I don't like tax increases.
 Mr. Mayor, even though there might be council members that don't like this date, this election was not actually called by the Board of Trustees. The library was called by the citizens of Fayetteville pursuant to Amendment 30. The citizens of Fayetteville are the ultimate deciders, and they requested the date of August 9th in the special election.
 It is really the ministerial duty of the city council, once the city clerk has said that these petitions are sufficient and accurate, to call the special election as requested by the citizens. And therefore, even though we might prefer different dates, I think it's really beyond our power to go and question the citizens who have lawfully petitioned for this special election for the mailage increase on August 9th. Okay. Alan?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just have two quick questions. If the library did have to build on the existing footprint, would the budget look the same? Yes.
 We realize that the $26 million that we're asking for, we will make all the concessions and considerations to get it done within that budget. We consider that to be our budget limit. Anything in excess would be raised privately. So as we go into this project, we're looking at raising $23 million from private donations to match what the citizens of Fayetteville do. We're not asking the citizens to assume the full responsibility for this project.
 Thank you. And then I have my other questions actually for Kit. Kit, I realize what you've said about the general ordinance and that we as a city council, it's an administrative duty to pass this, but the emergency clause isn't, is it?
 Well, the problem—and I was a little reluctant to have an emergency clause, too, you know, so I don't usually do that on ordinances. The problem is in that having to wait as long as we did to get the final decision from the Court of Appeals after a rehearing was requested meant that we couldn't bring this forward as early as potentially was possible before.
 And what that means is that in order to make the August 9th election date, the ordinance should be in full force so that the city clerk, I mean the county clerk and the county board of election commissioners,
 can go ahead and begin the process of printing the ballots, because, of course, we have early voting and all that kind of stuff. And so in order to get the material to them by June 7th, if we don't make this an emergency clause immediately effective, the next meeting of the city council, or even if we pass it tonight, it won't be effective on June 7th, which is when we need to get the material to the county clerk.
 And I would also invite the bond counsel here, who did a lot of review of this and actually is much more responsible for this bond ordinance than I am, Gordon Wilburn, and let him explain why an emergency clause is really needed. Well, that's really not my question. My question is more of, should we feel, I mean, are we compelled to administratively pass an emergency clause, or do we have an option with our vote? Yeah.
 The problem with not approving it, then you would basically not be following the dictates of the petitioners who sought a special election by August the 9th.
 If, in fact, the Election Commission and the county clerk would not be able to go forward and have the election by getting the ballots printed in time, then we would be frustrating the petitioners, the citizens who signed the petition requesting a special election.
 So that is why I agreed to do an emergency clause, because I did not want to frustrate the desires expressed by the electors in Fayetteville, the taxpaying electors who asked for this election. OK, just to be clear, because I've had two constituents ask this question, so I guess that's no. We don't have to vote for the emergency clause?
 I think if you do not vote for the emergency clause, you could be frustrating the intent and request of the petitioners, the taxpaying electors who signed the petition, to have the election on August the 9th. So, yes, I think that it would be improper not to do that so that we can get the election held as requested by the taxpaying electors. So, yes, we have to vote for it.
 My opinion would be that if you do not vote in favor of this special, I mean in favor of the emergency clause to make this effective immediately, you could be found to be, uh,
 frustrating the expressed desires of the petitioners who petitioned for this election. And I still would ask Gordon to call in. Well, I would just say, yeah, I mean, it's not just for the convenience of the Election Commission and the county clerk. I mean, it's mandated state law. You have to present them with the ordinance 60 days, at least 60 days before the election. So, you know, without the emergency clause, the August 6th date doesn't work, which is written into the ordinance. So, you know, you've got
 uh you know competing provisions there that wouldn't allow it to work as passed without the emergency clause and i thank you i understand the emergency clause in the bond process i just i wanted to be more certain before i answered my constituents regarding that i love this conversation
 And with as much respect as I have for Mr. Williams, I find it amazing that 100 people can outperform the city council because they sign a petition. Now we're obligated to pass this or we'll be frustrating their intent. We're the people, we're the ones on this council that are elected by the people of Fayetteville, not just those 100 people that signed that petition. We're to safeguard the public purse here and we need to take our job seriously.
 Maybe we should pass a tax. Maybe the citizens of Fayetteville want to vote for a tax. But I'd much rather see it done on a general election date, where we wouldn't incur the extra cost, and we'd have a much greater participation by the people of Fayetteville, instead of deferring to a petition signed by 100 people. I'd like to examine that petition, Mr. Williams. I presume I'll find a lot of library friends on that petition.
 I doubt if that's a cross-section of our city. So they would be naturally inclined to want to increase the taxes.
 In terms of costs to the city in terms of holding the election, the library has anonymous donors that have paid for and will pay for this election, so it will not be asking the city to pay for this election. Could we have the names of those anonymous donors? Well, actually, the city clerk has already, in fact, checked all the signatures, and I'm sure she'll be happy to give you copies of the petition so you can go over them. But it is the people of Arkansas that passed Amendment 30
 that empowered 100 taxpaying electors of the city to make that petition for the special election. They did not give the power to the city council to change the will of the 100 taxpaying electors. Maybe you don't like Amendment 30, but as long as Amendment 30 is in force, this is the law of Arkansas, and it's much stronger than the will of the city council. Well, Mr. Williams, I don't know why we're having this discussion then. Sounds like the 100 people rule.
 I don't know why it's before us. I agree with you we can't change their date and what they've proposed, but we can vote an up or down. That's what we're being asked to do is vote up or down. Will we go along with it? As a council, we might be willing to tell those 100 people we disagree. We, the city council for the city budget, raised our taxes in 2015.
 We're fixing to raise, or it looks like these 100 people are fixing to raise our taxes again in 2016. And we have another group of folks probably coming back later this year or next year that are going to want to raise the taxes again. I'm just concerned that we're balancing these budgets on the backs of our working people. I'm a landlord. You raise my taxes, I'm going to raise my rent. That's all. It's middleman. It doesn't bother me. Okay? It's the people who clean the hotel rooms, right?
 the Hispanic ladies, it's the men who hang the sheetrock for Ayers Drywall, who barely speak English. They're paying the rent. They're going to pay this tax. Do we really want to increase the tax on them? That's what I'm asking you to consider. Well, I think this is good for the campaign, for when we finally do pass this ordinance, and certainly you can make arguments that the millage should not be raised. I think that will be done. Some will argue it should be raised. We're not taking any position on that here.
 This is what we are required to do by the Constitution. If an adequate petition has been filed, and it has, and certified as correct by the city clerk, then we must call the election as requested. And the power is with the people, not with the city council, to call or not call that election. The petition has been filed. We must do, or you must do, your duty to,
 to enact the ordinance that properly calls the election as requested by the petition. It's really not up for debate now
 about following, you know, we all, including you, took an oath to follow the Constitution of the state of Arkansas and obey its laws. That Constitution says if the citizens file a petition that's a proper petition certified by the clerk, we will call an election. If you do not do that, you are violating your oath of office that you took when you assumed your office of being alderman.
 Sarah, I believe you have a question or something. I was going to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second that motion. Okay. Before we get into all that, what public comment do we have? My name is Pat Beaslem. I live at 15 Northwest Avenue. And I came to express my view that there should not be a special election.
 and I happen to agree with just about everything Mr. Latour brought up. I was not going to tell this little story, but I can't resist. I have a friend who is on a library board in St. James, Missouri, and they squeezed through a special election in the summer when they knew not many people would vote, and they got their tax increase. And it was very deliberately done on the part of her library, and she would—
 kill me if she knew I was up here going in the opposite direction from what she did. But all that aside, I was very concerned. The Election Commission told me on the phone that the special election would cost $22,000 to $28,000 depending on how many polling places were set up. But now I see that's going to be paid for by a donation.
 That really makes it a different point because I thought, well, $22,000 to $28,000 is a drop in the bucket out of the $26 million approximately the library is wanting. But nevertheless, on the front end, it does represent an opportunity to exhibit some fiscal responsibility. But all that aside, I am astounded that,
 that anytime anybody comes up with whatever 100 signatures to put anything on the ballot, no matter how frivolous, this is not frivolous, this is important, but that that has to be set up, a special election has to be set up. So I too am asking, why is this even up for discussion if it's a done deal? I don't understand that at all. But at any rate,
 The special election in the summer does mean a much smaller percentage of the population will express their views. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, could I ask a question? Yes, you may. Pat, could you come back to the podium? Council Member Latour has a question. What was your last name? Besom. Besom. B as in boy, E-S-O-M Besom.
 Pat, when someone tells you that an anonymous donor is going to make a gift to pay for the election, and they won't tell us their name or who they are or who they're related to, they might be the brother-in-law of the contractor that's going to get the job. They might be the brother-in-law of the architect that's going to get the job. And those fees could be tacked on to their fees that would be charged to the library. So really, the taxpayers end up paying that bill. Are you aware of that?
 I can see that that might be a speculation. I don't know that this anonymous donor's donation will be tacked on to anything. I don't know how that would happen. Exactly. It could happen, but I don't know that it would. Well, we don't know that either, but because they're keeping it a secret, we have no way of knowing. There will always be a suspicion. Now, if they would go ahead and tell us who they are, we could lay it all to rest right here. But they don't want to do that. Well...
 I'm not thinking in that direction. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Patty. Who else would like to address us from the public? Good evening. I'm Kyle Smith. I live at 2801 West Dove. It is an interesting thing to have to stand here and have this conversation, but it's part of the process.
 and we have an incredibly complicated democratic process. Thank you all for being our elected representatives, but I also thank the folks out here for being the ones who elect you and get to be your bosses. And our process sometimes allows the bosses to tell you what to do. A hundred people have the constitutional authority to call for an election.
 a special election may be inconvenient but i'd like to point out that fayetteville's had two record-setting turnout special elections in the last two years so i wouldn't be too worried about the city of fayetteville's ability to stand up for itself on this issue thank you anyone else like to address this on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading
 Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Otero? No. An ordinance calling and setting a date for a special election on the questions of one raising by one and one half mils the current one mil city tax on real and personal property supporting the maintenance and operation of the Fayetteville Public Library.
 2. The imposition of one and two-tenths mill city tax on real and personal property to be pledged to an issue or issues of bonds not to exceed $26.5 million in principal amount to finance capital improvements to the Fayetteville Public Library, prescribing other matters pertaining thereto, and declaring an emergency.
 And just to prevent the filing of numerous petitions by 100 citizens seeking all kinds of millage, you better be a library or you better be a police or fire pension fund because those are the ones that got the constitutional amendments passed. If you want to do it, you're going to have to go to the legislature and the people to get more constitutional amendments passed if you want to be able to submit other petitions. So it is a very unusual thing, but what Amendment 30 says is
 Upon the certification of the petition by the city clerk, it says, quote, the question shall be submitted to the qualified electors. I think that is a direction that the city council must obey. It is the constitution of the state of Arkansas. Okay. Adela. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 Okay, Alan. I just had a quick question. Are we voting on the emergency clause at the same time? No, it takes a separate vote. I just wanted to make sure. Okay. John. At the risk of breaching our Arkansas Constitution, I cannot vote to go to the next reading. We're raising taxes. This is important to everybody in this city. This hits them in their pocketbook. The reason we have three readings...
 for an ordinance is to give people time to learn about what we're doing, to come and express their opinion. They should have six weeks, two-week intervals, three readings. And we're going to do it all in one night. What we're telling the people by our actions is we don't care what you think. We're going to ram it through and we're going to pass it.
 I decry this process. I'm sorry. With all due respect to the City Council, our Arkansas Constitution, and everyone here, I think the people of Fayetteville have a right to have this read three separate meetings with two-week intervals in between or three-week intervals, if the case may be.
 to give people time to disseminate, to learn, to read the paper account, the newspaper account, and see what's going on. And we're going to do it all tonight and not give them that opportunity. I would like to slow this down and hold it on this reading to give people a chance to learn about this and come and express their opinion. So I urge you not to go to the next reading. Okay. Does either of the council members wish to change their mind?
 Okay, I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hinnant? Yes.
 No. Chair Greg Musil, Will the Board of Trustees of the National Library of Chicago and the University of Minnesota of the National Library of Chicago and the University of Minnesota of the National Library of Chicago will be present at the end of the meeting.
 to the imposition of one and two tenths mill city tax on real and personal property to be pledged to an issue or issue of Bonds not to exceed twenty six and a half million dollars in principal amount to finance capital improvements to the Fayetteville Public Library prescribing other matters Pertaining thereto and declaring an emergency. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? Yes, sir. I
 I think we absolutely have to support our library. It is one of the most important institutions in our city. You know, when I was living in Seattle and looking for a place to move because I was ready to move to a smaller town, I looked at communities all over this country and there were three reasons that I chose Fayetteville. One was our friendly people with the progressive spirit. Number two was our bike trails and number three was our library. It's absolutely
 an impressive facility, it consistently ranks among one of the top in the nation, and I think that that's a ranking that we need to hold onto, especially for economic development and recruitment purposes. And the library is there to serve everyone, whether you need a book to read, a movie to watch, or I know I used a lot of their software when I was applying for jobs. They have resources that help absolutely everyone in our community.
 This is one of the most important institutions in our city, and I think that it's time to let our citizens vote on this issue. Okay. John? Once again, I agree with Sarah Marsh. The library is important, and my family has used the library. I'm not...
 I'm not saying we don't want to support our library. I'm just saying we should go about doing it the right way. And when we're raising people's taxes, they should have a right to intervene in a meaningful way. Having a special election in August is, in my opinion, not a meaningful way to let them participate in that question.
 It's designed to pass the tax. If we had it at the general election, we'd have much more voter participation and it would be a much more meaningful experience in raising the tax. I'll say it again. If the people want to raise the tax to build a library 20 times the size or make it 20 times better, that's all well and good. But I think the majority of the people should be able to participate in that, not just a select few that will participate in August.
 So I support the library. It's just the process that we're going through here is what I question. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. I'm reminded of a colloquialism. In theory, there's no difference between theory and practice, but in practice there is. School board, special election, failed. Then they came back and they got it. Civil rights ordinance, special election, failed. Then we came back and we got it.
 So I think it's convenient to talk about the theory of special elections disenfranchising voters, but I think in practice we know in Fayetteville we have an active electorate and that's simply not the case. I hesitated to speak on this at all, but I will enthusiastically vote to uphold the oath I took whenever I assumed this office. Okay. Anyone else?
 all right shell the ordinance yes yes yes yes yes no and mayor we need a separate vote on the emergency clause okay all right that brings us to the emergency cause before we vote on that any final comments from the council
 Can we table this, the emergency clause, for two weeks? I'm not prepared to vote for that tonight, and looking at the numbers here, I know that it won't pass. I don't know if you can table it or not, but I will say the emergency clause requires six alderman votes. The mayor is not allowed to vote for the emergency clause. However, I think that...
 That would be a dangerous thing to do with the need to have the ordinance to the county clerk and election commissioner as quickly as it does. And I would invite our bond council to talk about any possible bond ramifications if the emergency clause was not passed tonight. I've never seen an emergency clause, which is part of the ordinance, not at least voted on.
 the night that the ordinance was was read and approved but I would invite Gordon to give me any I mean he has more experience with these bonds than anybody I so I'll ask him for his advice into a lot of council meetings I've never seen it tabled I've never considered that question if the ordinance is not effective you know one of the provisions of it directs the city clerk to make it available to the Election Commission
 And, you know, this is kind of what Kit and I discussed. I don't know if the ordinance is not effective, whether the city clerk can do that. And if that's not done by June 7th, then you can't hit the August election day. Academic question, I really don't know the answer and I doubt there is a case law on it. I would also be concerned even if potentially, you know, their first meeting in June, I guess it's June 6th, is that right?
 So it will be awfully hard for the clerk meeting that night to get the ordinance to the county clerk and election commission after they've already closed for the day. I would also just think that when you're dealing with bonds, it's better to have a very clean operation and not try to do something that's never been done before and risk an attack because there's $26.5 million at stake.
 which is attractive to attorneys that like to sue. All of the major losses that the city has suffered in the 80s that we got to pay off in the 90s, which included about $7 to $10 million in attorney's fees, were on bond issues.
 And therefore, it has been my effort ever since I became city attorney to try to be extremely careful with bond issues. My advice to you is that the emergency clause should be enacted tonight.
 in order to avoid that kind of issue. We could have terrible issues if it was. That could, in effect, put a cloud on the bonds that want to be passed if the citizens do pass this. The real effect on this, the issue on this, the contest on this, the controversy should be at the election ballot, not here at the city council level. This is a ministerial duty.
 It says the question shall be submitted. That's what the Constitution says. The question shall be submitted to the qualified electors. If you don't pass the emergency clause, that might not be able to happen. And therefore, the duty that the Amendment 30 has placed upon every member of the city council would have been violated by the council that failed to take the appropriate action.
 I think it is playing with fire not to pass the emergency clause tonight. Okay. Alan. Sorry. Well, that wasn't really my question. I've had so many people contact me and ask why this is an emergency, and I'm still getting feedback from them. That's why I'm not prepared to vote for an emergency clause tonight. So we can table it until...
 I feel comfortable with that until the next meeting, or we can vote tonight. I'm sorry to put you all in this position. John? You ever feel like you're under pressure? I asked Malin Rice in our agenda session what exactly was the emergency. His answer to me was, well, we have to keep up with other libraries. He didn't describe an emergency. When I think of an emergency, I think of someone's going to go out of business, someone's going to die, someone's going to be seriously injured. Maybe I'll die if you don't get $26 million.
 Those are emergencies. I mean, just to keep up with other libraries doesn't sound like an emergency to me. You know, if we don't get this on the August whatever ballot and we can't do it in September, then it almost has to go to the general election in November. And that's what I'd like to see happen. So everybody gets to have a say in it, or a greater number of people get to have a say in it. You can argue that...
 like Matthew did, that special elections, everybody has the freedom to come out and vote. But as a practical matter, they don't usually do that. So I'd still like to have the public vote on this, but I'd like to be done in November, not in August. Thank you. SPEAKER 1- All the comments over. Can I have Matthew? I just wanted to make an appeal, Alderman Long.
 I know that we're going to have several aldermen absent at the next meeting, which will make passing an emergency clause at that meeting impossible. But more to the point, I think we all get questions from our constituents that can be challenging to answer. And I think in this case, we have an answer that is ironclad. The Arkansas Constitution truly binds us
 to put this to a vote. And I think there's been some, as a group tonight, we've allowed this decision before us to become conflated with the decision that's going to be made in August. And I don't think you've done that, and so I want to thank you for that.
 But I'm worried that we're conflating something else, that we are confusing the issue of the emergency clause with the issue that we need to decide in August, according to the state constitution. And so what I'm telling my constituents, and what I think
 you could tell your constituents is the Constitution binds us to make this decision, and it's not that it's an emergency or that we're forcing anyone to do anything. All we're doing is following the Constitution and putting this to a vote so everyone else can decide. So I can only implore you to change your mind, but I hope that you will. Thank you.
 Well, I guess I could feel more comfortable about voting, but if I could get a real yes or no definitive answer on whether or not we're required to vote for an emergency clause. I voted for the ordinance. I want this to go to the election, but I haven't gotten a yes or no on are we required to vote for the emergency clause. I've heard that we may frustrate petitioners, but that's not really a yes or no.
 That's the question that my decision was made. Okay, I can try to be more clear to you. I'm sorry if I have been unclear. I tried to say in my memo that I wrote when I was quoting Amendment 30 that whether or not to call an election on the question of raising the millage, supporting operation and maintenance of the city library, and of levying millage for capital use of the city library is not discretionary. That's what I said in my conclusion for the city council. Not discretionary.
 Upon the city clerk certification of the petition the question shall be submitted to the qualified electors The only way it can be submitted to the qualified electors is by passing the emergency clause if the emergency clause is not passed Then according to our bond council. We cannot submit the ordinance at the proper time to the election commissioner and
 The petition which requested the millages to be held at a special election will then not be, we will not be fulfilling our duty to follow that petition and submit it to the electors as we are required to do under Amendment 30. So I would say, yes, you must pass the election, the emergency clause in this case. Just because of timing, that is what is required. Okay. John? John?
 Respectfully, Mr. Williams, I disagree. I mean, we can pass a bond issue anytime. A hundred people can bring this back anytime. And just because they requested an August date doesn't mean we have to go along with that. We can save a lot of money by doing it in November and we can increase voter participation. That's what I'm after, is increased voter participation. And to say that the Constitution requires us to pass the emergency clause, I mean...
 The whole thing seems like a sham to me. Why are we voting on any of this? If the Constitution requires it to be submitted to the people, then submit it to the people. But I wouldn't think that the Constitution would require such a strict rule. And there is a reason we're voting on this tonight. There is a reason it has to go through the city council. We're the defenders of the people. We're the people.
 And that's what we need to think about. And if we have a lot of constituents calling, asking questions, what's the emergency, and we're not getting good answers, the only answer I can come up with is it's all designed to pass the tax. So please, I implore you, reconsider your votes on this. I can't see an emergency, and I can't see what the Constitution requires us to say there's an emergency when there is no emergency. Thank you. Okay.
 As the mayor, when can I call a special election if I need to? I mean a special meeting. Okay. I have that authority, correct, Kent? Okay.
 Yes, you can call a special meeting. It will still require whenever we have a special meeting, the emergency clause must still be passed or else you are not complying with your duties under the Constitution to refer this to the vote of the people. All this is is a referral. It's not passing any tax. It's just referring the citizen vote as the citizens have asked for.
 It's clear the Constitution says you shall do that. And the reason the Constitution puts these duties on city councils, because they might run up across some city council that might not want to do a tax, even though the citizens might want a library and demand it. And so the people of the state of Arkansas said, city council, you don't have a choice. It shall be, that's what it says, shall be submitted tax.
 It doesn't give the city council any choice to decide, well, we know better than you electors, citizens. We know better than you. We're not going to do it, even if you petition for it. No, you don't have that right to go above the citizens. The citizens have asked for this. You must do your constitutional duty, which in this case means also passing the emergency clause. Howard? I was trying to push the speak button. Kit answered the question that I was interested in, so I'm prepared to vote.
 Okay. Any other final comments from the council? All right. I need a motion and a second. Do I not? Yes. Sarah? I move we pass the ordinance. Emergency clause. Emergency clause. Right. Adela? I second that motion. Okay. Adela, you're still on the screen? Are you having something else you want to say? Okay. Okay.
 Shall the emergency clause pass? Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Leter. No. Okay. The emergency clause did pass with six votes. All right. All right, number five. Resolution to approve and adopt the federal first economic development strategic plan. Mayor. Mayor.
 We have a quick introduction to this. We are pleased to present the last six months' worth of work in our economic development strategic plan update.
 You may remember back in November of last year, the City Council hired Boyette Strategic Advisors to conduct this update to our plan. We last conducted a strategic plan update back in 2008 and 2009 as part of Eva Klein's study that we partnered with the University on, as well as the Fayetteville Forward process that we went through with Mayor Jordan.
 That was in the midst of a recession. Times have changed since then. We're in record growth and seeing that in our future. So we felt it was time, as many of you mentioned, from the council as well as the mayor, to update that strategic plan. So we're pleased to show the results of the last six months' work. I'd like to introduce Dale Boyette. He's gonna walk through our presentation and give you the results of the strategic areas of focus and what we plan to...
 for the next five years. This is not a five-minute and do everything in a five-minute type plan. This is the next five years' worth of work that we hope to guide the city. Thank you, Jeremy. Mayor Jordan, council members and staff. Mayor, Del, before you go, if I can just make a statement. I'm passing around an executive
 Boyette Strategic Advisors has provided you just that will outline a bit of what we go through in this very detailed presentation as well as the online documents that we sent you the link about that support this entire plan. I also, too, want to thank Dale and his team for the work that they've done and the
 thousands of citizens that participated in our process. I want to primarily highlight one item that Jeremy said, and that is this is a five-year plan, not a five-day, not a five-week. There are a lot of items. And as you hear as Dale goes through and highlights these items, that we have a significant amount
 strategic priorities and action items to accomplish over that time period that we will build and bring in more detail to you but we're extremely pleased with the plan that they put together so thank you Thank You Don Mayor Jordan council members and staff
 Thank you for the opportunity to work on this plan, first of all. And thank you all for your participation in the plan. And also, too, I want to acknowledge Tracy Sharp, who is our COO and was the project manager on this project. I want to acknowledge her, and she's here to answer any questions if you have them once I'm finished. I'm kidding, but she is here with all of the data if we do need to answer any questions. We did begin this process in November, December 2020.
 It is a five-year plan and I want to tell you and that it is very realistic and it is a plan that can be implemented over the next five years.
 If we did not believe that it could not be implemented through all of the participation we had from the many residents, the many business and industry representatives that participate in this process, and through our benchmark research, we certainly would not have included it in this strategic plan. We certainly don't believe in putting something in a plan that cannot be implemented. That is absolutely wrong to do so. So everything that is included in this plan, we believe can be accomplished in the next five years.
 We did name the plan Fayetteville First, and just a little explanation as to why we call it the Fayetteville First plan. First of all, Fayetteville is first by a long list of attributes, and I don't have to go through those with you, but I am going to go through just a few of them with you. First geographically in northwest Arkansas, as we enter from the south, you're first geographically in northwest Arkansas, so you are Fayetteville first first.
 You're first in population by size and growth in the state of Arkansas. You're first in innovation, and we certainly found out that more. It was so profound as we went through this process. We were so impressed as you scale what's happened in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation in Fayetteville. We think that it is unsurpassed. You're first in startups. You're first in sustainability. And I said from the very beginning as we proposed on doing this work,
 One of the things that really made us want to do this work and one of the real things that we think will make you Competitive long term is your focus on sustainability You've you know, you've gone through a lot in your process of being a real sustainable city in the state of Arkansas and now the fortune 1000 companies are
 80-90% of those Fortune 1000 companies all have sustainability in their strategic plans. So we feel like that puts you in a real competitive position for competing for business and industry and those types of investment. And your first and many, many other things, which I know that you could say that much more than I could, but I won't go into any more of those because it is getting late. And thank you for staying with us. We had over 1,500 participants in this process.
 interviews, group discussions, resident input, online surveys. We talked with developers, we talked with manufacturers, we talked with entrepreneurs, we talked with innovators, we talked with startup companies, we talked with the arts and culture community, we talked with the educational community, we talked to representatives of Northwest Arkansas Council, of AEDC, the U of A, a food security group, UAMS.
 the chamber and actually it was over 1,500 but it was 1,647 people that were engaged in this process to be exactly correct. We benchmarked against some places that we felt like after much discussion with with several people and doing a lot of initial research we benchmarked against Chapel Hill North
 Boulder, Colorado, Fort Collins, Colorado, Lawrence, Kansas, and Asheville, North Carolina. As part of this process, you have significant benchmark research document. You have a significant stakeholder interview summary of those 1,647 participants that participated. And you have a comparative analysis of how you compete against other communities in the state of Arkansas as well.
 Some of the survey highlights, it was an extensive survey. They're in the full document, but I will just hit on some of those survey highlights. There were 331 businesses and companies that responded to our survey. 82% of the employers that responded are satisfied or very satisfied with their workforce. 48 companies of the 331 said they were planning to increase their workforce in Fayetteville.
 25 companies indicated they were planning to make a major capital investment in Fayetteville. And 68% of businesses rate Fayetteville as a positive or very positive place to do business.
 Also in the survey highlights with business and industry, in the order of frequency as to, and respondents could check all topics, but in the order of frequency as far as assets, what business and industry said, the number one thing, University of Arkansas, the quality of life.
 and the lifestyle here in Fayetteville, the arts, cultural, and entertainment amenities, the ability to attract young professionals, and the cost of living. As far as challenges, the business climate and permitting issues,
 with the city and some people even said that Fayetteville was business unfriendly. But then again at the same time we have people say if you compare Fayetteville to a Charlottesville, North Carolina, it takes six months to get a permit versus the length of time it takes in Fayetteville. However, it is an issue here and it needs to be addressed and there are some recommendations in the Fayetteville first plan itself.
 that tells you how to address some of those issues so that you can be more friendly, if you will, to business and industry. Your transportation infrastructure is a challenge. I certainly don't have to tell you any of these things. You know that. Public transportation. Public transportation is important to a lot of people today. And it is mentioned as an issue even with business and industry. The tax climate and then the ability to attract talent was mentioned as the fifth issue as well.
 On the entrepreneur side, on the survey for entrepreneurs, 73% of the entrepreneur survey said they would rate Fayetteville as very positive or a positive place to do business. 85% of entrepreneurs agree that Fayetteville is a place for creativity, collaboration, and innovation. That is something that really surfaced throughout this process. And really when you think about Fayetteville and you think about Fayetteville being first and you think about Fayetteville moving forward,
 it certainly is a place for creativity, for collaboration. I mean, look at the people that have been here tonight and all of you still sitting around that...
 that on that platform up there, it's obviously a place for collaboration and also for innovation, which is really what's going to propel Fayetteville into the future. And then residents felt the top five barriers. Now this is the residents, the number of residents that participate in the process, felt that transportation infrastructure is a barrier. Public transportation was mentioned second by residents, attainable housing,
 broadband, and then the tax climate was mentioned fifth by the residents.
 On the entrepreneur side, some of the assets that the entrepreneurs talked about were, that were a real benefit to Fayetteville, the cost of living, the U of A, the ability to attract young professionals, the entrepreneurial support, and then the lifestyle and quality of life. But on the challenges side for the entrepreneurs and the innovators and the startup companies, the ability to attract funding is an issue. That's not something that is unheard of in a place the size of Fayetteville.
 A lot of people think that venture capital and angel investors, there's only one or two places in the country where that's readily available. And sometimes that's the case, but that's not to say that it cannot be accomplished here in Fayetteville as you compete for the startup companies and those entrepreneurs and innovators. And the ability to attract talent is a challenge.
 The business climate and permitting surfaced here with the entrepreneurs as well. When we met with them as a group, it was a big issue. The whole permitting process was an issue. And then entrepreneurial support was talked about as being an asset, but at the same time it was talked about as being a challenge. And we have reasons that we think for that. But anyway, the tax climate was an issue as well.
 On the targeted business sectors, and I want to, you know, a lot of times you have targeted industries that are focused. A lot of times you have targeted business opportunities. For Fayetteville, and keep in mind this plan is for Fayetteville. Fayetteville in northwest Arkansas, Fayetteville in the state of Arkansas. But this plan is for Fayetteville to move forward from an economic development perspective.
 So we have five sectors that we think should be your focus over the next five years, focus at this point in time, a focus that doesn't mean that you're not going to have success with other industry sectors, but as far as your time, as far as your resources, as far as your policies, we believe should be put in place to support you
 these types of sectors in the investment with these types of sectors and the types of jobs that they will create Corporates we did a thorough economic base analysis And I know you don't want me to go in depth as to what that is But we reviewed location quotients. We did a shift share analysis. We reviewed a DC's targets. We looked at Northwest Arkansas targets and
 We looked at all of the targets of all the benchmark cities that we benchmarked against, as well as with the comparative analysis that we did against other places in the state of Arkansas. We looked at those as well.
 These are the ones that we decided upon. Corporate services, entrepreneurs and innovators, legacy manufacturers, retail, and specialized technologies. This doesn't mean you're not going to have success in other sectors, but these are the ones that we believe you should focus on at this point in time.
 On corporate services, you say what is corporate services? This is an infographic that's part of the document. This is an infographic that you can use as you promote Fayetteville for economic development purposes. But when we talk about corporate services, we're talking about those company-wide support services that may include legal, marketing, information technologies, and other types of businesses.
 You know, your focus on environmental sustainability is critical to corporate America. It's critical to these types of companies that are going to create these types of jobs. And the fact that you're the third place, you know, someone mentioned the third best place to live in the U.S.,
 is important too. And then, you know, the ranking of the Walton School of Business and the fact that it's increased in stature and what's happening with the investment in the School of Business at the U of A is important to this sector as well. On entrepreneurs and innovators, again, it was amazing what we saw and what we found out that is just happening every day right here in Fayetteville.
 and it is something that really has to be a focus. When we think of the companies that are the, I saw a list on Inc. Magazine last night, list the best companies in the country, the most companies that you aspire to work for, most every one of them on that list were companies that I didn't even recognize as existing 10 or 15 years ago.
 So they were a startup somewhere. They started someplace. And we certainly had a lot of startups in northwest Arkansas, obviously huge companies that have been extremely successful. But you have so many significant startups that have happened right here in Fayetteville that have happened right here in your backyard while just in the tenure, some of the tenure of some of you on the city council that have happened and are continuing to grow here and creating really good jobs in this city.
 So this has to be a real focus. You're the third best place for startups outside the Silicon Valley in New York. I mean, think about that. I mean, just really, really think about that. So with a real focus on entrepreneurs and innovators, think about what you can really be and what you can really accomplish. I could talk about this all night, but I'm not going to. On legacy manufacturers, you have a good, strong manufacturing base here in Fayetteville.
 It is positioned to grow in some areas. You need to have a focus to make sure that you're retaining those jobs that are here and making sure that you're growing those companies that are in the Commerce District and supporting those companies. It needs to be a target. And I also would say that with a lot of your startup companies, there's going to be opportunities for manufacturing to meet the needs of those startup companies. So there will be startup manufacturing as it relates to some of those startup companies that will be...
 eventually legacy manufacturers and companies that you should focus on on the manufacturing side.
 Anyway, it's really really important that you focus on this. Yes, they're usually part of a business retention expansion program They should be part of that as well But we met with a group of people you need to make sure that you're really focused on them and growing them and making sure That you're doing everything you can to meet their needs so that those jobs can continue to be here in Fayetteville and employ the people that they do employ on retail and
 I mean, we looked at leakage reports and we looked at, and when you're thinking of retail, you have to think of all of Northwest Arkansas, it is a draw. And there are opportunities for retail. I could name companies, businesses that I'm thinking of, wow, they should have a presence in Fayetteville. And there are real attributes for Fayetteville on the retail side, the fastest growing city in Arkansas, 10% population growth by 2020.
 The fact that there is 500,000 plus population in northwest Arkansas, and that doesn't count, you know, what's south of here as well. So there are real opportunities for retail growth, and it does increase your tax base, by the way, on that retail growth that provides other opportunities for you to compete for business and industry. I'm going through this really fast, so if y'all want me to slow down, just stop me. Specialized technologies.
 Fayetteville is a prime location, and these are those technologies that support the retail sector. They retail technologies, also the logistics technologies, and other big data users. I mean, big data was a term that three years ago, four years ago, I mean, I've had to learn a lot about big data and what that means. The opportunities, big data opportunities for Fayetteville were certainly there.
 They need to be supported. They need to be promoted. And when you look at the growth in these sectors of specialized technology, there's a 20% projected growth. And then everything that's going on in research at the University of Arkansas, what's going on with a lot of the companies in Northwest Arkansas, it creates a real opportunity for you to compete for those projects that you want to compete for in this specialized technology sector.
 Strategic focuses. There are seven strategic focuses as part of this Fayetteville First Plan. I don't want to scare you, but there are 30 strategic priorities and there are over 90 plus action items. Some of those action items can be done in the first 30 days. Some of them, it's going to take five years and you may have to push some of them into the sixth year. But there are certainly things that should be a focus in the next five years for you
 to optimize and maximize the opportunities that the people, we feel like the people of Fayetteville really want and where the opportunities really are for the people of Fayetteville. One of the first focuses, and these are all alphabetical, arts and culture, to further enhance the arts and cultural environment.
 The strategic priority is to continue to support the existing programs that enhance arts and culture locally, to expand the arts focus in Fayetteville, to develop and support arts programs in public schools, and continue to support the craft beer industry. And then there are nine action items as part of their strategic priorities, and you have the plan and you can see those or we'll be happy to answer your questions about them either now or later.
 Business retention and attraction to support and retain and attract business. The strategic priorities are to create a robust business retention and expansion program to improve business perception. And a lot of that is around some of the things that people said about being business unfriendly.
 and develop a local incentive policy sometime in the next five years. And this does not necessarily mean, incentives don't necessarily mean cash for companies, I want to say that. Sometimes it may be a traffic light to ensure that traffic congestion is, there are other things that you can address on the incentive side, but it's being business friendly for the types of business and industry you want to compete for.
 Meet property needs of targeted business sectors. You have property in the Commerce District. You have redevelopment opportunities all over the city. And then you have good sites that are in your databases already. On the education and workforce side,
 to ensure that workforce of talent is attracted, developed, and retained, to further engage with higher education, and there are eight action items around these different strategic priorities, to ensure workforce and training needs can be met. The Northwest Arkansas Council is doing a lot of things.
 uh... in whack is doing a lot of things there are things that can be done and fable public schools around workforce and uh... workforce talent and it is critical to the future if you saw some of the weaknesses that were acknowledged as part of the process talent was around those in its very very important companies today and then attracting and then retaining the workforce of today and tomorrow and uh...
 There are certainly different things related around a lot of these issues and some action items around each of those. On entrepreneurship and innovation, to embrace the entrepreneurial ecosystem that is here to support the startup companies and the culture to retain them long term.
 You know, I was familiar with ARTP and I've thought about ARTP and the real opportunity, not only that it provides for South Fayetteville, but for the opportunity it provides for the state of Arkansas. If you scale it as ARTP and you think of research and technology parks associated with universities around the country, in scaling it, it presents a real opportunity for the state of Arkansas and I was very familiar with it.
 But the things that are happening on the Fayetteville Square right over here, if you don't know about them and you have been to see them, I would encourage you to really check it out. It is absolutely amazing what's going on right here on the Fayetteville Square. What Startup Junkie's doing and what Hayseed's doing, I'm absolutely amazed. We worked in a lot of cities across this country, especially in the southeast, and I admire.
 have not seen anything at the impact, if you scaled it, that is going on right here in Fayetteville in the whole startup entrepreneurial world.
 You know, we talk about supporting that environment to increase high-tech job growth through university partnerships, and those are the jobs that can be created and will be created at ARTP. And to create innovative spaces and programs to support those entrepreneurs. It's happening here, but those innovative spaces and these programs have to be in place to support it long-term.
 and then to expand entrepreneurship education programs. And quite honestly, we're talking about entrepreneurship education programs in your public schools.
 They need to be expanded. They need to be exposed to entrepreneurship, sometimes as early as the fifth grade, and then again in the eighth grade, and again in high school. Because if you look at Generation Z, you've got 80% of them that are already saying they want to own their own company someday. So we need to make sure that they have the tools in order to do that.
 And then on the marketing communication side, we think you should build a Fayetteville First brand. We think we're on to something with that whole Fayetteville First brand. It just fits in a lot of ways. And develop a dynamic digital media presence. Pursue recognition in key rankings. That's almost putting it on the list after it just happens that you're third best place to live and you're the third best place for startups. But there are other lists that you...
 If you pursued them, you could probably have an opportunity to be on them. This is a five-year plan, not a five-day or 30-day plan. And we encourage you to pursue those as part of your marketing communications efforts. And then other things on the sustainability side, exploit what you're doing in the area of sustainability as it relates to competing for business and industry.
 Understand, promote, and plan for the future sustainability in Fayetteville. You know, ensure that your inventory is in place so you can talk about sustainability as it is important to these companies that you are wanting to invest here.
 promote and encourage the ongoing sustainability activities in Fayetteville Public Schools. There are some real pockets of sustainability that are happening in the Fayetteville Public Schools. And then as part of sustainability to really support the local food economy. There's a lot of things that are going on in that area that can be expanded and opportunities for growth in the next five years.
 on the economic development delivery system, create the most effective economic delivery system. As part of this, there are three functions of an economic development program that we recommend for Fayetteville in moving forward. Business recruitment services, business retention and expansion services, and then entrepreneurial startup support services. With this, you're saying how are we going to do all this? We do think that,
 Not that you build an economic development team at the city of Fayetteville, but we do think that you need to create a director of economic vitality position at the city to coordinate all of these functions together.
 that are really important to your moving forward. The business recruitment side, the business retention expansion side, and the entrepreneur startup support services side. You're saying, what would a director of economic vitality do? We thought long and hard about that title. There's a similar title in Boulder, Colorado. But there's got to be someone at the city that's managing these activity areas
 these activities that you have with your contractors. And there has to be someone at the city that is coordinating those things within the city. And when there is an issue, there needs to be an ombudsman on behalf of those entrepreneurs that may have an issue that needs to be addressed within the city. So that's what the position of a director of economic vitality would do. I've done it pretty quickly.
 I could spend an hour, we could spend hours talking about this, but I know it's late. I'm happy to try to answer any questions that you may have. Okay. What questions do we have? Matthew. I think that's all the mayor. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Adela. Yes. Mr. Boyack, could you please talk with us a little bit about the tax climate that you mentioned several times? Expand on that a little bit for me.
 Well, I have to do it right here on TV in front of everyone, right? You know, Arkansas is not a low tax state anymore. I mean, we used to promote ourselves as being a low tax state. And it surfaces in any work that we have done in the state of Arkansas. If you look at the Tax Foundation Climate Report, Tracy, what is Arkansas like 37th on the Tax Foundation Climate Report out of 50 states? And that's 37th worst business tax climate. So it surfaces as an issue across the board.
 And, you know, when you've got Florida is number five, you've got Texas is number ten on the tax climate side as it relates to business. And the business foundation report, the tax foundation report, is what business and industry look at and what site selection people look at. That is an issue, and it is surfacing as we see it in every place that we have worked in Arkansas. Okay.
 And it is an issue when you show up as being 37th. I think it's 37th. 30-something out of 50 on the report this year. And I don't know specifically what they would be referring to it as, anything specific to Fayetteville. I don't necessarily think it is. I think it's a general term of the business tax climate in the state of Arkansas. And I think there will be some things done about that in the future, obviously. But it is an issue. Tracy, you want to add anything to that? Can I answer that on the front?
 Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you. Hello. Thank you for the report. Thank you. I had a question that's a little bit open-ended, so do with it what you want. You know, we have, if we think of our economic development approach as, well, as being a portfolio of strategies, you know, it seems like, based on what I've learned, that it
 The traditional way of doing things was to go out and try to recruit big companies and to pull together incentive packages and commerce parks and things like that to try and move
 And you talked a lot today about the phenomenal entrepreneurial activity that's going on in Fayetteville. So my question is this. If we're trying to arrange a diverse portfolio of strategies that may run the gamut of recruiting titans of industry or developing our own or doing something else entirely, what
 I understand you can't quantify this, but in what, as close as you can get to hard terms, how do we balance that? How do we choose where we allocate our resources? This is a five-year plan. This Fayetteville First plan hits on all of those things, certainly not ignoring manufacturing and not ignoring your legacy manufacturers, but having them as a focus.
 It also addresses the other sectors that are important to Fayetteville in moving forward. Some people may be surprised to see retail in there, but there are certain types of retail that Fayetteville needs to compete for and that Fayetteville needs to attract. It's important to the people who live here. It's important to your overall economic development success, and that needs to be a part of it as well.
 Entrepreneurships and innovation, there's a lot of things that are already going on in that area in the private sector side, but it has to be supported as well and it has to be a real focus. As far as knowing where to put the resources, there will be an implementation plan associated with this document. We have put everything in a matrix. There will have to be resources assigned to it. There will have to be further discussion among
 different parties to determine where the resource, what the resource focus should be. As far as knowing exactly what percentage of them should be spent when, I think that's going to fluctuate over the next five years. I think what you do in 2016
 may be different in 2017 and it may have to be adjusted in 2018, 2019, 2020. There may be things in the plan that you would like to see addressed in 2017 that because of resources there's not the opportunity to address them in 2017 so they have to be pushed out but that doesn't mean they shouldn't be addressed. So I think you've got to look at this short term
 but you also have to think about five years and you have to think about the long-term picture and look at it as a compilation of five years rather than the next six months or the next year and a half, but looking at it holistically for the five years. Does that make sense at all, Matthew? I'll accept it. Okay, please. Thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay. What public comment do we have? Yes. I don't mind you being safe, but secondly...
 Hello Jeff. My name is Jeff Ammerine from Startup Junkie Consulting. It's a privilege to be able to be here and address you about the Fayetteville First Plan and specifically the component of it that I've kind of been in the trenches on with my team over the course of the last many years. Innovation entrepreneurship is in a way like small ball baseball.
 and that you're not always going to hit home runs or win the lottery like you sometimes do when you're doing business attraction for large corporations. But it allows you to leverage the one thing that we have an abundance of in the area that comes here because of how great the area is, the university. We attract the best and brightest from many different countries, from the state, and from surrounding states, and if we give them a compelling reason to stay,
 and create new enterprise, and to build small business, will go from being the third best place in the country to have small business and startup to being number one. Somebody told me that second is last. I just assumed be number one rather than number three. We've got a lot of momentum in this area. So when you think about how to
 prioritize resources and what to put money on what to put effort behind supporting our small businesses our startups our innovators and our talent and Removing some of those friction points that can cause the irritations that sometimes slow things down That's where to put the emphasis the Small Business Administration Would tell you that two out of every three net new jobs comes from small business and startups Those are the job creators Kauffman Foundation would tell you it's 85% and
 So I'm here to encourage you to take this great work that the Boyette Group did and take action on it, and let's keep Fayetteville moving forward. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. Who else would like to comment tonight? Yeah, Dale, you have something else you'd like to say? It's great. It's 38th on the Tax Foundation report. I was close, not 37. 38th worst. Okay, I do have another question. Okay.
 Then I think our latest rating, I guess you've heard about it, where number one on, is it the lowest income? Best affordable city. Best affordable city. So talk to me about that.
 Well, I need to look at the criteria for what determines the ranking on... You know, there are all kinds of empirical data that are looked at for each of those surveys, and I really have not looked at that one and understand the data that goes into the ranking on that particular one. It's interesting, though. We did look into the U.S. News and World Report when it came out as the third one, cost of living. And, you know, I would agree with you. It really doesn't make sense when you talk about...
 You know, the tax, you know, the business costs and the tax costs, and at the same time you're saying it's the most affordable. There's not a balance there, but then again, people have to check some box and they have to make some comment. But the real issue is, and I don't want to belabor this, but the whole tax foundation report and being 38 is something that people look at, especially those companies that are looking to invest $50 million or $10 million or $100 million in a place. Sure. Sure.
 Thank you. Sarah. I didn't have a question so much as just I'd like to hear you talk a little bit more about the retail sector. This is an area that I feel like we need a little more clarification on and kind of the differentiation between the big box national retailers as opposed to more of an experiential retail.
 You know, as consumer habits are changing, a lot of people are going online to buy and do a lot of their shopping. What they're looking for in a shopping experience is more the experience and the pedestrian-oriented experience of certain types of shopping centers. Do you want to talk a little bit more about your recommendations in general? And those types of retail businesses require places to establish their business. And there are...
 places in Fayetteville to establish those types of businesses. You know, when you do this work and you look at Fayetteville as an outsider, and you compare on the benchmarking side, you look at what you think may be missing.
 You know, and then you do a retail gap analysis and you see that retail specialty shops in some areas are missing. Then you see that there is a retail gap analysis because when you do that, you do it for the entire region and the whole, the 500,000 population. But you look at median age and you look at what their interests are, you look at what those opportunities are.
 But you would think that there is, and here I am saying this right here in front of everyone, you would think that there's an opportunity for a real significant art supply store down in the arts district down off of MLK.
 you would see that an art supply store, I can't think of the name of it, but it's a national store, but it's more boutique and it's focused. And a lot of times the art supplies are ordered online and sent in, but if there was an opportunity here to provide an opportunity for those artists to walk right to that store, it's an opportunity for keeping that text alive
 Those taxes here and it's an opportunity for job creation. It's also providing a service to that artist entrepreneur, if you will. I do think that there's some, or we do think, and we discussed at length, there is some opportunity on those types of businesses that are not necessarily big box, if you will, but there are neighborhood type stores that are national chains.
 Well, you know, and you know who they are. You know when you talk to people what they would like to see locate here. A lot of times it's the same things that you hear it in different communities, and I probably here I'm going to mention them, but like a Trader Joe's, you know, a West Elm. You know, you would think when you look at the median age of the population and you look at where the opportunities are, a West Elm is going to locate somewhere in northwest Arkansas. Right.
 you know do what you can to make it happen here if you want it. You know there's those types of opportunities but there's gotta be a place for those and you gotta look at redevelopment opportunities for the retail space for those types of boutique
 type companies that you're describing, and you so eloquently say it in a different way than I do, but I know exactly what you're talking about. And they're the startup boutiques that are meeting the needs of a certain population and providing an opportunity for people to make a living and do the things that they love as well. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Do I hear a motion? Yes, we have...
 Mayor, I just wanted to make a quick comment before the council does vote on this. I think one of the things that Dale has really and his team, Tracy and Jennifer, there's a whole group of them that have been working with us, have brought is the importance that we need to be making decisions off of data.
 comparative analysis, not off of feelings and emotions, but what statistics are businesses looking at. Jeremy and I had a very real experience with that just this week with someone who looks at a set of criteria to make decisions about what communities they will go to, and one of their hard factors was mean income. And I think that's a really good example
 When you're a university community, if you aren't out there educating people on what that means in our community and they just look at it as a hard number, they saw $37,000 as a mean income. If you look at our retail number, this was a retailer, we have $65,000 as our average income. And we also have in our number...
 28,000 students whose income is zero in terms of the calculation which drives those numbers lower but all you have to do is go to the parking garage to see that they have disposable income and so
 It's telling those stories to retailers that would have otherwise ruled us out as a potential market to locate in. And so he's really brought to us in these infographics the data and the comparative analysis that we need to be using when we're having these conversations with prospective businesses. And then a lot of the businesses that you talk about that are not those big box items do fall in this entrepreneurial category.
 that Jeff was speaking about. And they're developing right here. Lauren James is a prime example of a very successful business started right here in Fayetteville, Arkansas, AccuMembranes. There's a list of those also in the infographics. So we're looking at how to use this information, how to better have conversations with prospective employers to play small ball.
 because I think we have seen the successes of that. And a lot of this is happening without a lot of coordination, a lot of people doing components that when we pulled them together identified that, wow, if you can get all of us together in this energy going in one direction with a focused emphasis, there's no telling where we could go. Look what's happening without that today. Right. And so I think that's the other reason we really have to,
 take this plan around the entrepreneurial development component as a part of it. And then we all have learned, I don't think any single one of us who have ever been in business recruitment know that the easiest thing to do in growing your business is to keep the ones you've got and to help them grow.
 having a focus that's also focused on those legacy businesses that have been in our community, that provide jobs to a wide range of individuals, that have wide ranges of pay rates, which allows everyone to have prosperity, is something that we can't forget while we just focus on attracting new things.
 want to create an environment for growing. And then the one thing that we all hear, and we continue to hear it in this, and I think Dale touched on it as a weakness, is no matter what we're doing in terms of trying to improve the perception of being business friendly, it is a constant.
 activity that we have to do. The mayor has that a part of his staff meetings on a regular basis about our customer service and attitude, but we heard it even in this, again, from multiple segments.
 You know, we heard things like we can get this resolved if we can get to Jeremy or we get to Don or we get to the mayor. Why can't we get that resolved without having to get to those individuals? That comes back to us and our training and our development with staff, allowing them to understand where they can be gray and take a set risk.
 disavowing the code when those items get to us we still have to meet the law requirements that you passed but we come to solutions and so you know there's a part of that that says okay well we need to create even more training environments for our staff to be able to do that without it having to be individuals to get that done so
 And there's action items in this plan, again, around that as one of those barriers. Land cost is an item for us and building availability. You know, people who would like to build in our downtown –
 don't have a lot of land to do it. So when we define what is downtown, you know, we're now talking looking further towards ARTP in South Fayetteville because we have land that can develop and build these kind of businesses and build a bigger downtown than just thinking about it from Maple Street to the square. So, um,
 but the point i think that we hit home with is we've got great data we've got data how we compare to jonesborough springdale conway these uh the communities in our state we have great data on how we who we're competing against when a business is looking at going to a community our size or a region our size when we look at chapel hill and fort collins and boulder and
 lawrence and those kind of places where we have either lost opportunities or had to win them and so you know now we know exactly where we are comparing our school system is a big part of this and the curriculum and developing a workforce
 It's another great thing also to have low unemployment, but it's also scary to businesses coming and needing workers. So our ability to train and develop people is also important.
 But if you haven't looked at that data that we put on the website on the comparative analysis, the feedback from the input of the groups, you really need to do it because there's powerful information in there that's allowing us to make decisions off of factual information and not off of speculation or some emotional comment that someone made. And that's what we're developing our plan about.
 Just to put this in perspective, when the Fayetteville Forward was done in 2009 when Mayor Jordan came in, there were 48 action items at that time that we focused on. And now we have 91 new ones. And with very focused emphasis that I think will really help take us to the next level.
 let us know that you know while there will be opportunities outside of those areas that he talks about we need to focus our energies because um if we shoot the gun and without firing at a target we might hit some things but it may be things that we don't want and so that's what we want our activity to be about this plan okay uh Matthew yeah we approve the resolution Sarah a second back any final comments from the council
 I want to take just a few moments to thank Hill and Tracy for your work on this, and Don and Susan and Jeremy and my staff and this council's indulgence in putting this economic plan together. You know, I went into this, and I'm not really much for a lot of awards and trouble taking, but our headlines, that's not usually my thing. I just go to work and just work.
 That's kind of what I enjoy doing. But when I began to see this report and saw that we were the fastest growing city in Arkansas, third best place in the United States to live and according to US News and World Report, first best affordable city, we just got that in this weekend from US News. Third best in the United States for startup businesses outside of Silicon Valley, 2015. Best in Arkansas for environmental protection to go along with that.
 right now uh we're averaging two new businesses a day coming into this city according to the latest reports that we've got in in the commerce district i just met with them last week looking at for workforce training which we're going to be working on that they've got we've got 2 800 people working out there so we're doing some very very good things a lot of things i didn't know about until we got into this day and i want to thank you all for bringing that to my attention and
 It caused me to have a great deal of pride in this city, which I've always loved, and I have pride in this city. But that really put a strong emphasis to me on what we really do have. We're truly blessed to live here. We are. I know right now that Susan and I are working with the Next Century Cities. We joined that coalition to bring affordable broadband to every citizen in this city. And that's going to be huge for everybody. Not only just...
 and job training, but just great quality of life. So I want to thank everybody for your work on this because this thing is the future of our city. So thank you all. All right, with that...
 Shall the resolution be? It's an ordinance, correct? It's a resolution. Thank you. Shall the resolution pass? Mars. Yes. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Now, the next step, council, I want you to know that I'll be working with the staff, and we're going to bring you some next steps on how we begin to implement this, and you can pick and choose what you want to do with it. We're going to bring it, and you make the call, okay? All right. What announcements do we have?
 Don? Mayor, a couple of announcements for our citizens and the council. We have a couple of road construction projects that are happening right now. The reason that I want to make sure that we get these announced is we have a lot of high school graduations that are going to be taking place here in Fayetteville and around the campus. One that could impact your route is the North Garland. We are replacing asphalt from a road repair failure that took place from a water leak.
 It's from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. every day over the next eight days. There will be at least one lane in each direction that is open, but it won't be four lanes as it normally is. So please plan for that in your route as you go to graduation so you're not frustrated. That's North Garland. There's also a construction project installed in the new trail crossing on South Garland.
 And that's between Sturman, Pettigrew, and Boone being detour streets there. We want to also encourage our large truck users to use an alternate route of Razorback Road. That's Monday through Thursday from 7 to 3.
 This Friday is National Bike to Work Day, Friday, May 20th. The city will have two Energizer stations. That's for people who are biking to work between 7 and 9 a.m. One's at Lake Fayetteville Trail near the Lake Fayetteville Marina. The other is on the Razorback Greenway at the Dixon Street Trail crossing. You can get an offer of free breakfast, minor mechanical support. We provide it for commuters on bikes for those days. Thank you.
 And let's see. I think that's all I've got. I'm sorry. Just want to remind everyone that we will not have a Ward 4 meeting this month because it falls on a holiday. So June will be our next meeting. Anything else? Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.