I would like to call the City Council meeting for May 15, 2018 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Mr. Chairman, here. Here. Here. Mr. Chairman, here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is a walk-on, I believe, and a resolution that states, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $15,000 representing a donation amount
 to the Yvonne Richardson Community Center from the Jane Hunt Mead and Dr. Benjamin Mead administered by the Arkansas Community Foundation to expand the Summer Fund for Kids program. I will entertain a motion to add that to the agenda. Unfortunately, Mayor, I see we only have five total members including yourself, so we need six total members in order to suspend the rules and place this on the agenda.
 Well, why don't we hold it right here? Maybe we'll get another one come in, and we will come back to it later. Okay. And with that, I will move on to the consent agenda. All right. Number one on the consent agenda, approval of the May 1, 2018 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two.
 a resolution to appoint or re-appoint the following owners of the property within the off-street parking improvement district number one of the federal as commissioners on the off-street parking improvement district board greg lee evan g brooks george nimblot jr don strossener and chris barebone number three
 A resolution to approve an agreement with the Waste Away LLC DBA White Line Waste for the hauling of solid waste and recyclable material generated from construction and demolition activities in the city of Edville. Number four, a resolution to award RFP 18-03 and authorize a one-year contract with Anami Shaw.
 Consulting LLC for organizational development consulting services is needed with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number five. A resolution to award RFP 18-03 and to authorize a one-year contract with Illuminative Strategies Incorporated for organizational development consulting services is needed with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number six. A resolution to award RFP 18-03 and to authorize a one-year contract with Illuminative Strategies Incorporated for organizational development consulting services is needed with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms.
 A resolution pursuant to 166.04 of the Federal Unified Development Code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right-of-way along West 15th Street by approximately 276 square feet to account for a portion of an existing
 at 1436 South Duncan Avenue and to reduce the Master Street plan right-of-way dedication for this portion of West 15th Street by 276 square feet. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 18-25 and to authorize the purchase of a pump rebuild kit and critical equipment.
 Spare parts for the hamstring lift station on Sunshine Road from J.R. Stewart Pump and Equipment Incorporated in the amount of $46,994.40 plus applicable sales taxes. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Adela. So moved. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Saundra, would you please call the roll? Okay. Chair.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And Mayor, would you care to vote? I'll vote yes. All right, the consent agenda passed. All right, under unfinished business.
 A resolution to order the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structural property owned by ATR Properties LLC, located at 1946 South College Avenue in the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment of $11,678.
 Mayor, before David begins, we received an email from Councilmember Marsh today. There are two item requests for the meeting that she is unable to attend.
 The second request relates to this particular item, just in terms of sharing her information, that she's not heard any interest from anyone regarding saving the house on North College, which this property is addressing. And she was one of the ones who talked about holding it up, so she didn't want to, she wanted to make sure that she shared that, that she had no new information or request to hold it.
 She does not. Does not. Okay. All right. David, back to you. Thank you, Mayor. Council, David Carver, Code Compliance Administrator. As you may recall, the item was tabled at the request of Ms. Marsh at the May 1st meeting. Since then, I did speak with the property owner to inform him that the item had been tabled to tonight's meeting. He inquired as to why the item was tabled but did not express any interest in preserving or renovating the structure to bring it into compliance with city code.
 He did state that they may seek to raise and remove the structure themselves during the required 30-day grace period from approval of this resolution. Staff is again recommending the approval of this resolution and a budget adjustment of $11,678. Thank you, and I'll answer your questions. Okay. Is the applicant here, by the way? Okay. What questions do we have today, governments? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Right back to the council.
 I move we pass the resolution. Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And Mayor, do you choose to vote? I will vote yes. Okay, the resolution passed.
 Okay, under new business, number one, an order is to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Bob Weaver for the installation of water main along a 370-foot portion of Oxford Bend Road with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Feville not to exceed $6,535 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,307. Kip?
 Whereas Bob Weaver will be building a single-family home on property located on Oxford Bend Road and has requested that the city Share in the cost of constructing an 8 inch water main rather than required 4 inch water main along Oxford Bend Road a distance of approximately 370 feet and whereas the city of Fayetteville would benefit from the cost share as it will allow the new single-family structure to connect and
 We'll extend water service to an area that has never been served before. It will also provide for ample future capacity for consumption and fire flow.
 And whereas section 51.112 of the Fayetteville Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system, unquote.
 And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project. Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with bob weaver for the installation of an eight inch water main along a 370 foot portion of oxford bend road with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of fayetteville not to exceed six thousand five hundred and thirty five dollars and further approves a project contingency in the amount of one thousand three hundred and seven dollars
 Mayor, before Tim begins, this is the second item that Councilmember Marsh commented on, requesting that the Oxford Bend Water Line Extension be held on the first reading so the Water Sewer Committee may review the request because there was not a quorum for the Water Sewer Committee meeting. And since we only have five members here, we have to leave it on the first reading. And there you go. All right, Tim. Thank you, Mayor.
 As Ken said, Mr. Weaver will be installing water services for a single family home on Oxford Bend Road, which is about a half or three quarter mile north of Highway 45. Per policy, he's responsible for installing that main extension of 370 feet and it must be approved by the city.
 Based on projected uses, Mr. Weaver only needs a four-inch main. But because there's anticipated growth between Fayetteville and Goshen in that area, the city will require Mr. Weaver to install an eight-inch main instead of a four. City policy allows the city to pay for the upgrade, and cost difference between a four-inch to an eight-inch is the $6,535.
 Now, as compared to the city coming back later and installing an 8-inch all by itself to have a contractor do that, that would be approximately $26,000 to do that. So there is a $20,000 savings to go with this cost share. And as Mr. Marr said, it was going to be heard at the May 8th Water Service Holderways Committee meeting, but that meeting has been postponed until May 29th. Are you happy to answer any questions? Okay. What questions do we have for Tim? I'll say real quickly, Mayor. Sure.
 Looking at this, is this north of 45? Is this north of Highway 45? And it turns off, but Oxford Bend doesn't connect to 45, right? Or it does? It does. It does connect to 45. So just past this area where the extension will be could in theory be another housing development at some point. That's correct. Okay. I know we have to leave it here, but it makes sense to me, especially saving the money in the future. So, okay, thank you very much.
 Okay. Is the applicant here or the homeowner, are they here to speak on it or anybody? Okay. Any other questions from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. I understand that Council Member Marsh wants to leave it right here for two weeks.
 Yes, Mayor, that was the request because there was no water sewer committee meeting. Okay, so— That's fine. What do you all want to do? Everybody good? Water sewer will meet in two weeks. Okay, good enough. All right, let's move along back to our very first item.
 And the very first item, Councilmember, was a request for a walk-on. Okay. And to do that we have to suspend the rules so that it can be added to the agenda and we would need your vote for that. So I guess I'm asking if there is a motion to do that. Do you want to read? Well, you've read it already and then you'll have to read it again once he does that. Okay. So it is to accept a $15,000 grant.
 You passed a resolution requiring staff to say why we were bringing forward items that were not going through the original agenda situation. This is related to the YRCC summer program. And we had a waiting list of children in lower socioeconomic situations. We have had a benefactor step forward, two children.
 who have agreed to fund the necessary staff so that those individuals can participate in the summer program. It's time sensitive because we've hired staff and they're going through training, so that's why the item is before you tonight. All right. Justin? I was just going to suspend the rules and add the item to the agenda. Do I have a second? I did. Yes, I'll second. All right. Sonja, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Kingman? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Mayor Jordan, do you care to vote? Yes. Well, then now you're free to read that resolution. All right. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $15,000 representing donation to the Vaughn Richardson Community Center from the Jane Hunt Mead and Dr. Benjamin Mead
 administered by the Arkansas Community Foundation to expand the summer fund for kids program. Who has this? Denise. Hello, Council.
 The YRCC is excited about summer camp. We have tons of kids every summer that are looking to be a part of our camp. And some of the things that we are able to do during camp include field trips, includes meals, but it's free at no cost to the families that are involved in camp.
 which many of those kids are underserved populations and qualify as extremely low to very low income levels. And so the $15,000 would support additional staff, three to be exact, and allow 20 kids per week to be added onto our camp. There is a waiting list of 100 plus kids on the waiting list. Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have for the Senate Council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the Council. Adele. I'd just like to say that I'm delighted that we have this wonderful gift to our community, and I would like for us to pass the resolution. Do we have a second?
 I will second that and I would also like to add that this is a great, great thing that we can do for kids, as she said, that may not have a chance to do this sort of thing in the summer. So this is very, very important and thanks to the YRC for providing such a great service to our community. So thank you. Absolutely. I would totally agree with both those comments. Anything else?
 Saundra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number two on new business. In order to resell that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 18-6152 for approximately 23.76 acres located at 4005 West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, and that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Gardner.
 Mayor and council, this parcel ground is located south of Martin Luther King Boulevard. It is east of Ruppel Road and west of Henshaw Road. It is vacant, and it is covered with what the City Forester tells me are about 20- to 30-year-old trees. It slopes gently up from Martin Luther King Boulevard up to the elevation at the top.
 The City's 2030 adopted plan designates this as City Neighborhood Area, which is supposed to be a mixed-use area that encourages a variety of non-residential and residential building types. And it would be considered a form-based zoning district, which has a Bill 2 line.
 Issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission are compatibility with surrounding uses, tree preservation, the topography, and transition to the mountain to the south. The surrounding zoning districts are C1 across Martin Luther King, C2 the east, which is
 district that is closest to the UT Urban Thoroughfare District. It's a conventional district that preceded the Urban Thoroughfare District. And that property is vacant on the corner, and it is occupied by Automobile Salvage Yard, which is a nonconforming use in the C2 district. And then there's some RSF4 on the slope, and to the south and west is RA.
 And there is a UT district at the intersection of Ruppel and Martin Luther King. So I mentioned the topography. It is actually fairly gentle. These are five-foot intervals. Until you reach the southern reaches of the property, the area to be rezoned is in black. The additional area that is zoned by the applicant is in pink, and that is to remain residential agriculture.
 The applicant has been in conversation with the forestry division about possibly putting an easement on this property and retaining four home sites to meet the requirements of the tree preservation ordinance. The planning commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have on this?
 Just to the west towards the intersection of Rupel and what's the name of that road that goes across? Henshaw. East? No, west, the other way, sorry. It's an extension of Rupel and it's called Hoot Owl Lane and Smokehouse Trail. Of course it is. I love those names. Yeah, right.
 But that's zoned—so if that goes UT, what is just to the left? Go back one more, I think. Maybe another one. Wherever you had the zoning, I don't know if you had it. I'm not sure I got it. Let me go back. Let me see. It is already zoned. It's purple, which means urban thoroughfare. Okay, so this would match that.
 But then there's a strip right there, that. Yes, there is an RA district between this property and this street. Because the owner doesn't own that? That's my understanding, yes. But that would stay RA? Yes, sir. Surrounded by UT on all sides? Yes. Okay.
 I'm just curious, I found that a little curious. You have one little spot there, because I would think development around that intersection is going to be very popular, and this might as well, but you've still got that spot right there, which is not very big.
 As far as street primes, but anyway. Council Member Ten, I think the only reason that you don't see something for that is this is an applicant-generated request and they're not the property owner for the property you're questioning. This is their property. That's the property owner. It's a 30-acre parcel. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Is the applicant here? Do they want to say something to the council? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council.
 Hello, council members. I'm Melvin Milholland, Milholland Engineering, surveying, been here for quite a while. And I'm the consulting firm that's working this project. And I heard someone talking about the trees. At the planning commission level, there was a discussion about what's circled with the purple line, and that it will be an easement to preserve the trees that are there now as a tree.
 Preserved area is about eight round eight acres there So what would serve as and we met with John on this and he's okay with it and That would serve as the trees that would be Preserved before the retire 23 acres below it when you T in history zone there are some trees on that will probably not be removed on the UT requested zone, but this is this
 Approximately eight acres exceeds that which is required by the city ordinance for the number acres On canopy and that would be that would be filed as an easement if there's any other requests or comments questions I'll be happy to answer your question Okay We understood it working with the staff and planning commission that it does it is in compliance this request is in compliance with your 2030 plan in the future and I
 The client must just go ahead and proceed and get everything taken care of up front rather than go ahead and start ILSB on development of it. Okay, we have no questions. Okay, thank you. Thank you. What public comment do we have on this?
 public comment everybody gets one turn to microphone five minutes keep your comments directed to me don't engage a councilmember anybody in the audience stay on topic don't leave anything out I don't believe I did you can't get more minutes if a councilmember makes a motion and they get a second and the majority of the council votes to do that otherwise you get one turn Mike all right Mayor Jordan and Honorable Counsel
 I'm just looking at you, Mayor Jordan. Who is? That's good. We live on Houdow Lane, and I'm happy to see that there is kind of a buffer already there because it looks like the property in question doesn't come all the way up to Houdow Lane. We just want to ask that the...
 The zoning that you choose is one that preserves as many trees as possible. And could you speak to what percentage of trees are preserved with the urban thoroughfare zoning? I believe there's 23 acres, and I believe Ms. Mulholland said there'd be 8 acres of trees left. Is that correct? So whatever that percentage is, it'd be less than 15 acres.
 That is what the Forestry Division has been discussing with the applicant. The minimum requirement of the Urban Thoroughfare District is 15 percent. The eight acres they have been discussing is well over that.
 So that would be in the south side, so the part of the property that is on— It would be in the south side going—it's like an L shape, correct? Okay. Give me a picture of that. Yes, it would be—this is Henshaw Road and then there's a—it turns to the west. So this is the existing narrow paved road that comes off. And it would be the entire southern boundary. That's nice.
 So the part in black though, there wouldn't have to be any trees preserved in the black section? The Forestry Division works with applicants to try to preserve as many trees as possible, but they could meet the minimum requirements on this parcel. Okay. We know it's not a problem.
 It's habitat. I mean, on Hoodow Lane, we actually get to hear hoot owls, and there's a lot of deer that come out of that property that we see. So, you know, we're going to miss it. I can't imagine, if I can, almost all developments at the development stage and the planning stages and the city staff stage, there's usually always in the developments some sort of tree plan of some sort. I mean, we rarely have
 things that just take every single living thing off the land and i and i wouldn't i wouldn't suggest that here so i agree there needs to be trees in that black zone as well yeah and i can't imagine thank you for that i can't imagine there wouldn't be in the planning stages and because a development would still have to go through all the proper stages to even be built
 That's true, they would have to go through subdivision and through a major development plan which has to go to the Planning Commission which gives opportunities to integrate the existing trees to meet our tree requirements. There will be a lot of steps to go through before development ever happens. And keeping this on our timer here, I don't know where we are on that.
 I guess we'll just wing it. Well, Mayor, I actually paused it while you all talked instead of the citizens. So there's three minutes and 50 seconds left. I didn't know exactly what we were doing. Which in many instances, I don't know what we're doing. All right, Adele, you have. But what I hear—
 Our staff saying is that that eight acres would meet that percentage. Yeah, I do want to be clear on a couple of items. Okay, we would not have any control over that is what I hear. Yeah. First of all, you made changes at the last one about grading permits and the fact that we look at –
 sites not from speculative development but must have a development plan in front of us when we look at tree preservation areas and they'll have to meet the requirement. The requirement in this zone is that 15%. If you look at this whole parcel, it could, in essence, meet it technically. Yes.
 We also have what is the landmark tree items and items as a part of our tree preservation maybe the city attorney can speak to that come into play in addition to the site for development. Certainly there are higher priorities with some trees which are landmark trees, bigger trees than that.
 And there is, even though it makes a lot of sense to save more of the tree canopy on the steeper part of the hill, which would be more susceptible to erosion, I don't think that means that none of the trees on the other part will be saved and clear cut down. That's certainly something that the city is not in favor of. And there are street trees, there are parking lot trees.
 So, I would imagine—well, there is no tree preservation plan now, and so really no trees can be removed until there is a tree preservation plan that is part of the development process. However, it does make a lot of sense to have a lot of the preserved trees up the hill towards you all as a buffer. So I think generally what you see there is that the major number of trees will probably be on the upper part which has been marked there, which is an area that probably will
 tried to be not disturbed very much, although the lower area will be disturbed a lot, I'm sure. Yes. Also, what Chief Staff was saying, you recently changed the process not to allow the applicant to come in and request a grading permit and clear cut this and meet the technical requirements with this reservation.
 They have to come in and get their site plan approved. When they go through that process, it is obviously to their advantage to meet the tree planting requirements with saving trees as well as just adding to the value of the land.
 Yeah, sure. Female Speaker 1 I was just going to ask, is there any opportunity for neighbors of the site to influence that process once there is an actual development in question?
 the neighborhood yeah i mean could could i come back at some point to the commission and say to be honest with you i don't think the council i can't speak to the council but this is a pretty major uh rezoning and i wouldn't be in favor of just pushing it on through i know sarah marsh that's in adela and sarah's board i'm sure she'd want to weigh in on it as well yes
 And Mayor, even after the rezoning is approved, then this will be what's called a large-scale development, a lot of acres, and then that is brought back before the Planning Commission
 and make sure that all of the things that the city has required have, in fact, been met. Now, if all of the requirements have been met, then it must be approved whether we would rather see more trees saved or not. But that is open to public comment, and so you'd be able to come back for the planning commission at that time. Okay. Thank you.
 Sarah, you had something? Well, actually I got most of my questions answered, but I would like to say that I like the idea of maintaining eight acres along the back with a large density of trees, but I also do not like the idea of, you know, we do have developers, if they had the option, they would clear cut everything.
 and if you've got a 30-year-old tree versus a little stick, I would rather have a 30-year-old tree, and I'd like to see some of the existing trees on the larger acreage maintained if we possibly can. I know that's at some point later down the road, all that discussion, but there we go.
 I do have a few concerns about the urban forest in there. But, anyway. Kyle? I guess I have a question just for clarity. Because we always look at these as a big chunk of mini acres. If it's subdivided into smaller parcels, how does the tree preservation percentages, how are those applied then?
 Well, the first thing that will have to be done before trees are removed is actually a tree source survey will be held and that's required of the developer and will be gone over and looked at by our urban forestry division, also looking for landmark trees and where the better trees are. And normally if no trees have been removed and this is split,
 then each parcel would be responsible to meet the percentage on its own parcel. Now if the parcel is joined, which I think it probably will be, with the trees up the hill in the residential agriculturally zoned area, then trees that are saved up there can go into that 15 percent that must be saved. If it was cut off
 and that was not joined with the urban thoroughfare parcel, then those trees would not be able to be part of the preserved tree. So I'm sure the developer realizes that and will keep that as part of the urban thoroughfare parcel, even though it's zoned residential agricultural. And if they split it up, then each parcel, when it's developed, must meet our tree ordinance. Okay. Who else would like to address this from the public? And bring it back to the council.
 What's the wishes of the council? Bella, that's your area. I believe I'd like to hold it on this reading. I think I would, too. Thank you. I'd like to have a full council discussion. It's a pretty big decision here. That's right. It's a big decision. Okay. Everybody okay? All right. Well, that concludes our business for the evening. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have a couple of announcements. The first is that...
 You and your Digital Inclusion Task Force have scheduled kickoff events this week to raise awareness about the importance of improving digital equity, which is broadband access, affordable broadband, and the education around the use of broadband. There's numerous events this week.
 There's a digital assessment at the Farmer's Market from 8 a.m. to noon on Thursday the 17th. There's a Thursday evening speaker, Joanne Hovis, who is the CEO of the Coalition for Local Internet Choice. That will be at the Fayetteville Public Library from 6 to 7.30 p.m.
 And they will discuss, or she will discuss, advancing digital equity and broadband opportunities for residents in Fayetteville that will be held in the Walker Room. And the goal is to engage our community members to discuss ways to raise awareness about the importance of digital equity to build strategies and opportunities for advancing high-speed affordable broadband for all of our residents. And freshmen will proceed the community meeting for those who are in attendance.
 Okay, any other announcements? Well, thank you all very much. We're adjourned.