I would like to call the City Council meeting of May 21st, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Pateras? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Eddy? Here. Scroggins? Here. Unch? Turk? Here. Smith? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight, we have an agenda edition, a walk-on. And I will read it. A resolution to approve change order number three of the contract with NAPHOS Construction Incorporated in the amount of $603,497.15 to perform additional work associated with Highway 112 Razorback Road to Garland Avenue project and to approve budget adjustment. I believe, Chris, you have this? I need to add it to the agenda. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Sorry, sorry, sorry. I need a motion and a second to add it to the agenda. Okay. Sarah I move that we add the resolution to our agenda first under new business Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, thank you. This is for the current highway 112 project through campus that's under construction and As the contractor began looking at the Razorback Road portion of the project, looking at how it tied in on the west side to the existing, there were some old parking areas and some drainage issues along that west side, and the design really didn't handle that. uh, West side very well. So, uh, this is a proposed change order to clean that up, add curb and gutter. And then we also get sidewalk on the West side of Razorback road. Uh, so it's a, it's a large change order because there's some, some pipe work that has to be done, some storm drainage, curb and gutter, and then sidewalk. Um, Per our agreement with the highway department, we are capped out. We paid all of the matching funds that we're required to pay everything in addition on this project is paid by our dot. Um, so we will be sending this to them for their approval and we expect them to approve this additional expenditure. So there's no additional cost to the city. The reason we're here in front of you tonight and not bringing us through the regular process is we thought they would take this through, do the review, do the approval, and then allow us to put it in front of the city council for final approval. We don't have that. They have given us verbal approval, and I feel confident that they will approve it. But they did want the mayor's signature on the change order before we send it down to them for review. I'll answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have? Sarah, okay, Kyle. Will this have any impact on the completion dates for the projects going on right now? The change order, I don't believe, asks for additional days, so the intent would that it would still be complete by the end of August or the start of the university semester. Okay. Anything else, any other questions? Do we have any public comment on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council. And so, Mark. I move that we accept this request as published, this resolution as published. Okay. Sarah? Second. Motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Good Terrace. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hingen. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Next order of business is a consent agenda. Number one, approval of the May 7, 2019 City Council meeting of mandates. Number two, a resolution to express the willingness of the City of Federal to apply for and utilize Federal-aid Transportation Alternatives Program funds in an amount up to $160,000 for lighting of the trail along Gully Park. Number three. A resolution expressed willingness of the city of Federal to apply for and utilize Federal-aid transportation alternative program funds in the amount of up to $500,000 for lining of the Rupert Road Trail from Persimmon Street to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Number four, a resolution approved the purchase of tires, tubes, and services on and as needed based Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials value point cooperative purchasing agreement through March 31st, 2024. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of emergency lights and related equipment from Dana Safety Supply Incorporated DBA fleet safety on an as-needed basis through July 31st, 2022, presented to a federal authority. General Services Administration contract number six resolution express wellness of the city of heaven to apply for and utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds for construction of a new bridge and a pedestrian connection From the trail to the pavilion at Wilson Park. I'll entertain a motion except consent agendas read Sarah so moved So second motion is second to accept consent agenda as read I Sonny, would you please go? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yeah? Yes. Okay, unfinished business, number one. An ordinance re-zoning that property is driving the zoning petition RZN 19-6553 for approximately .22 acres located at 510 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sarah? So moved. Do we have a second? Matthew? I'll second the motion. Do we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Grogan? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. All right, thank you. And in order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6553 for approximately .22 acres located at 510 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban. Yes, Mayor. As you'll recall, you continued this item at your last meeting at the request of the applicant, Mr. Niedermann. He is present tonight. He is asking to do a digital presentation, which I think takes your permission. Yeah, I think we've got to have a motion and a second. Don't we, Ken? Or can I just go ahead and allow that? Unless, if he hadn't ever done one, then he could have one, but I think he probably did it at the first meeting. Did you do one of the first many questions? I don't believe you did. No. Okay. We'll let you do that, and I don't think there will be any objections. If there is, I guess you can call it a day or whatever. Thank you all. Zara Niederman here, about 510 South College rezoning, which is in the Walker Park neighborhood. As many of you will know, City Plan 2030 Goals says we will make appropriate infill our highest and revitalize our highest priorities. So what is appropriate and what is infill? Well, appropriate, there's not really a clear definition of this. I think that's being worked on, but appropriate. What we do have now is form-based codes which help put buildings in the right place, and we also have design codes now that were not around 10 years ago. So that helps make things more appropriate. What is infill? We also don't have clear definitions on that yet, but if we look at City Plan 2025, we can look at what's the core area of the city. You see in the circle there, that's the core area, and the arrow is where the property is located. In City Plan 2030, we have an infill map, or excuse me, we have maps of development as time has progressed, and you can see there 1950s infill between the hill and... And then after that, we see the emerging sprawl city. So this, again, is in a location that would be, I think, considered by all our plans to be infilled. This is important. Infill is important. The 2030 plan said we were going to have projected to have 85,000 people in 2020. We hit that number in 2017. So we're three years ahead of schedule with regards to population growth. We have a lot of development happening out west, out east. Those are in locations that would not be considered infill necessarily, and I think this is a great chance to have infill. I wanted to move to the Walker Park neighborhood master plan because this is in the Walker Park neighborhood, and we do have a master plan for it that was brought up previously. So... This was done in 2007, 2008, and it was a great master plan. We have a illustrative plan, and we also had rezonings of the neighborhood from – a lot of it was RMF 24 and was rezoned to neighborhood conservation and downtown general. Part of the problem with that was that the downtown – we had neighborhood conservation, which allowed for residential – 45 40 40 what Lots up to 10 units per acre and then we had Downtown general and that allowed for five-story buildings with a ride array of uses 18 foot loss no density cap it could have Single family multifamily apartment buildings mixed-use Commercial great zoning district, but not necessarily appropriate in the middle of the neighborhood in all cases I WANTED TO JUST LOOK MORE SPECIFICALLY AT THE MAP ITSELF. SO WE HAVE THE ILLUSTRATIVE MAP WHICH SAYS KIND OF HERE'S WHAT WE CAN SEE THIS, HOW THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS GOING TO DEVELOP. AND SO IN A NUMBER OF CASES WE HAVE IN THE MAP WE HAVE SOME HIGHER DENSITY HOUSING PLACED HERE BUT THEN ON THE ZONING MAP YOU CAN SEE IN THOSE LOCATIONS THERE'S A FEW THERE THAT THEY WEREN'T ZONED FOR ANYTHING MORE THAN THE LOWEST DENSITY. SO THEY DON'T NECESSARILY, YOU KNOW, I THINK THEY BOTH WORK FINE, BUT I THINK IF WE LOOK AT THE MAP AND SAY, HEY, WE NEED TO FOLLOW WHAT'S ON THE ZONING, THE ZONING DOESN'T LINE UP WITH THE MAP. SO I THINK THERE'S A LITTLE INCONSISTENCY IN REASON WHY IT MAY BE APPROPRIATE TO REZONE SOME PROPERTIES THAT WEREN'T REZONED ORIGINALLY. Additionally, I think something that's important to note is we have two areas, 10 acres apiece, that were on the Lustre plan that would have high-density housing. So there's... what is now the farm uh strawberry um farm I'm blank on their name right now but it's a great asset to the neighborhood to the community really and and we're I'm so grateful it's there it was owned 10 acres of downtown General and that's that's you know in the foreseeable future that's going to be a farm and it's not going to be housing so that takes a lot of housing off the table so that's um you know I think it's great it was there, but just I think we have to realize with regard to having infill in this neighborhood how that impacts that. Again, there's another 10 acres to the north there that the owner has put. I don't know if it's officially in a conservation easement, but it's off the table for development as well. Again, I don't have any issues with those owners doing that. I think that's great, but it just does impact ability for people to live close to downtown. Looking at the Walker Park neighborhood, some of the ideas that people heard that they said they wanted, number five there, he said, is encouraging higher density. So this is something that was thought about at that time. And finally, I think one of the things that's lost that's really important is that the original zoning from 2007, the original neighborhood conservation zoning, it actually, you can't see it very well here. I couldn't get the, but this is from the Walker Park neighborhood master plan, but in the top. red circle it actually says that a permitted use in neighborhood conservation is number use unit nine two family dwellings that was permitted use that wasn't a conditional use currently it's conditional use at some point that was changed and then additionally it says that single family requires 40 foot wide lot and a two family is 50 foot lot so um So, two-family housing was actually part of the original Walker Park master plan, but at some point, it was changed to make it a lot harder to build two-family housing with 80-foot-wide lots now if you can get a conditional use permit. So, that was sort of taken off the table. So, with RIE zoning, this allows for two- to four-family housing. And so it's a small lot. It's not going to be a large. I have the opportunity for a large apartment building or something like that that would be out of context with the neighborhood. So I just want to highlight again a critical key of the master plan that is often overlooked because we look at the zoning codes, what they are now, but they're different when we actually had the Walker Park master plan implemented. So thank you. I'm available for questions. Okay, what questions we have? It's not really for the applicant. It's more for staff is the changes from 2000 and whatever to now correct that he's presented My understanding is they are that originally the neighborhood conservation district was primarily slated for downtown application and In subsequent years, the council wanted to use it for broader application and increase the lot width. I'm sure there are council members on the dais that may have been here when that was done. Okay, thank you. Any other questions for the applicant? Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're on third and final reading. Do we have any final comments from the council? Okay. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Oh, Matthew, you have something. Sorry. Thanks, Mayor. I just want to – I don't really – I think I've said enough about what my opinion is in prior meetings, so I just want to thank the applicant for the presentation. There are things there that I had not considered before and had not dug into, and I've read the Walker Park Master Plan at least a dozen times, and especially going back to the old ordinances, to me that is almost – That is something that is a critical piece of evidence that I'm probably not going to be able to stop thinking about for a while, and I hope that we can consider returning to that original condition. Okay. Anything else? All right. No further comments. Please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you. All number two, an ordinance to rezone that property as described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6573 for approximately 0.93 acres located at 509 West Prairie Street from DG Downtown General to MSC Main Street Center. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sonja? I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes Yes Yes, yes And orders to rezone that property described and rezone a petition RZN 19-65 73 for approximately 0.93 acres located At 509 West Prairie Street from downtown general to MSC Main Street Center Yes, Kelso The primary question in front of you, as you all know, is whether the Main Street Center District is appropriate for this piece of property. As we discussed in past meetings, the Main Street Center District has some differences from downtown general. One is it allows noise attenuation to be calculated based on a commercial district. And another one is it allows the property owner to ask for a conditional use permit for outdoor music. That process, of course, it goes to the Planning Commission, and it's not on the agenda tonight, but I think it is a good policy to look ahead, and the applicant did indicate that. They were they were wishing to seek such a permit and I certainly understand the council's discussion So we we put together a memo that gives you more information about what that press process involves They have one more piece of information Conditioner use permit does allow Council members to appeal it It has a high bar for that. It requires both a ward council members to ask for the appeal precedent plus an additional member, so it takes three, but it does leave it under your control after planning commission approves it. The applicant is present, and I believe they also have a digital presentation that would take your permission. Okay. All right. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? I understand you have a presentation as well. Well, okay. If the council is okay, we will see the presentation from the applicant. All right? All right. Everybody seems agreeable, so go ahead. You're on. Thank you. So, we're looking at the corner of Prairie Street and... Could you introduce yourself? Oh. My name is Jody Verser with Moda Studio, representing the interests of Prairie Street Live in this rezoning request. Just to hit the main bullet points up front, the main goal of this rezoning through live music and community events, Prairie Street Life hopes for this property to become a destination venue for south of Haightville, as well as a meaningful node on the cultural arts corridor, or at least the south tail end of it. The 2nd point being to help alleviate concerns for parking. We've already reached out to some neighbors to look at some agreements for a shared parking. Johnson mechanical West across from Greg and the. Fable public library further to North. The third goal being for this to be a slow, incremental, and sustainable growth of the site as opposed to one large, quick development. And we'll get more into all of these later. So, zooming out just a little bit, we can see where this property is located as it relates to Frisco trail and the solid branch as it tucks under the university's art and design district to the South. We have the 417 MLK development and further to the North. We have the woodland gardens, which is part of the cultural arts corridor. Um, and then, of course, the public library close by, and then even further north, uh, we have. Dixon street all accessible to the trail and just looking at a, a quick, uh, zoning map. We can see it on the South border of the property. In the East border, the property is, uh, main street center and so this. Peace properties kind of at the seam between downtown general and, uh, main street center. So, um. This rezoning would be very complementary to the surroundings. It's not going to be a huge stark difference compared to the rest of the area. So just to quickly talk about the conditional use permit, it was already mentioned. So a conditional use permit is still required, even with the rezoning, and the stipulations of which will be complied with. So zooming out even a little bit further, we can see the Frisco Trail and more of the branches that come off of Frisco Trail. Seeing the property down on the Frisco Trail just before it goes under MLK. And at Prairie and Frisco Trail, there's approximately 580 trail users per day. That's with bikes and pedestrians. Making this an ideal location to plug in and not only provide... Music and food and drinks, but even a moment for a repose on Frisco trail for water and restrooms, which is somewhat lacking along Frisco trail. And I think it's also important to note that this has the potential to be an example for. A new type of development along the trail where it treats the trail as its frontage, where it's catering more to pedestrians and people on bikes rather than cars. And I hope that we would all want to see more of this type of development and hopefully this could be a good start for that. Zoom back in slightly looking at that rule of thumb walkable radius of a quarter mile. There's roughly 2200 parking spaces in that area. While obviously not all of those can be freely available for this venue. This just helps paint a picture of what's available in this walkable area. But in doing this study, we see that there's roughly 50, so 30 next door with Johnson Mechanical and some on-street parking next to the neighborhood market further west. So 50 pretty close parking spaces, 30 of which with Johnson Mechanical is pending that shared parking agreement. And then, of course, even more pending if there are shared parking agreements to be arranged with the expanded Fayetteville Public Library to the northeast. But if you start to think about sort of hybrid parking and incorporating bicycles into this formula, then that quarter mile becomes much larger, a much larger radius for accessibility to this site using the trail. And so in this way, the trail becomes less of an amenity and more of an economic driver for allowing people to come from further away to this site. Okay. And as an example of an event that's already happened, A COUPLE MONTHS AGO, AS PART OF BIKE NWA, PURCHASE LIFE HAD A CRAWFISH BOIL ON THIS PROPERTY. AND WRIST BANDED OF THE 700, ROUGHLY 700 ATTENDEES AT BIKE NWA, THEY WRIST BANDED 225 ADULTS COMING TO THIS CRAWFISH BOIL. NONE OF WHICH HAD ANY PARKING CONCERNS. OBVIOUSLY THE IDEA OF THE EVENT WAS, YOU KNOW, BIKING, BIKE NWA. BUT IT SEEMED TO WORK OUT REALLY WELL WITH NO COMPLAINTS. And just to quickly talk about that third point from the first slide, talking about this incremental growth, obviously there's already some built structures. There's already some pop-up events on this site. So it doesn't necessarily fit into this spectrum here, but just as a diagram, you can see it starting with those more temporary structures and building up to a more permanent presence in its area. And, um, and so right now it's pop events with temporary structures, um, and so permanent structures on the side, but, uh, in the future we could see, um, you know, the presence of more food and drinks for people who happen upon the site as well as people who are coming from further away and parking and biking or walking to it. And then even further down the line, perhaps there's a re-envisioning of the structures on it still for community events, socializing, happy hours, and even life events. Thank you. Do we have any questions for the applicants? Teresa. Thank you for your presentation. A couple of questions. And if I can't ask this question, just let me know. How many people do you envision having at your music venue? A maximum count? I would defer to Jason here. One moment. Yeah. Yeah. Please introduce yourself. Hey, guys. I'm Jason Bigby, and I work with the family on this property. Currently, we're laying out different maps of different uses from food festivals to beer festivals, you know, different layouts. So it's hard, really, the fire marshal is going to set what the code is. So it's hard for us to say how many people are going to be allowed until the fire marshal does an assessment with an occupancy certificate. Well, what number are you requesting that the fire marshal review? It's all dependent on what the fire code will do. Okay. Okay.
 Yeah. All right. Is the fire cheap? No, there they are. Maybe you can enlighten us a little bit about how much can be allowed down there. I know for indoors there's a formula that they go by, a certain number of feet if there's fixed seating. And if it's all movable seating, it's a different number. I can't recall exactly what those are right now. But for outdoor venues, I'm unsure. I'll have to get with the fire marshal and ask him. I don't know how the formula is different for outdoors. I think it's different if it's an enclosed area. And I know there still has to be two ways to exit, and it means V-gress that's protected. But I'm not familiar enough with the code to answer that without looking it up. Okay. Thank you. I have a couple more questions. Sure, absolutely. If an applicant could come back. So you mentioned bathrooms and water and I agree that section of the trail I go down there often is really kind of lacking in those facilities. Is it envisioned that you all would allow the bathrooms to be open all the time and water accessible all the time or only during when you had events? I can't speak to 24-7, but the goal is certainly to have them accessible to the trail users. I don't know if that means after hours, but certainly during the high traffic times, they would be amenities for the trail users. Okay. Okay. and I just wanted to say that I did hear one complaint from a nearby property owner during your I guess the March Prairie Street venue and they weren't really notified or at least they claimed they were not notified of the event so I think reaching out to the property owners surrounding around there would be a really a really good idea and also when you have when when you have these events where you don't have permanent structures, where the bathrooms are located too. Because I definitely heard a complaint about that. So I just wanted to give you some feedback on that one. Councilman, appreciate it. I can also address that. Our ordinance anticipates live music impacts and under the conditional use permit for that particular use it does require 500 foot notification. So 500 foot notification of surrounding properties. So it is not just the adjacent properties, but a 500 foot circle around that parcel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anything else? Any other questions? Yes. All right, let's take some public comment on this. Hang on. Let me lay out the rules here. I figured there would be a few folks who might want to speak to this tonight. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone, and you get five minutes. Five minutes. unless the council by a motion and a second gives you more time, they'll determine how much time that will be. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic, and then we'll deal with it after that if you don't stay on topic. So having said all that, everybody clear with the rules here? All right. Who would like to be first? Give us your name and address, please. Okay. My name is Colt Galloway, and I'm a resident of 225 South Church Avenue. And I just wanted to briefly speak in support of the rezoning motion for the 509 Prairie Street. As a member of the nearby community, I live just a few blocks away from the property. I was able to attend the first event held there and I thought it was a really great event that kind of showcased the potential and the value of the property as a community gathering space. And I also think it'd be great for the nearby businesses that are already existing there. I understand that's a rapidly changing kind of area of the city and I think this aligns well with kind of where that change is going. And so I urge the committee or the council to approve the rezoning and expand our already vibrant arts and entertainment district. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Please come up. Everybody, you don't have to raise your hand. You can come on up. Yeah, my name is Ed Levi. I live at 301 Southwest Avenue and a nearby neighbor to the property in question. I understand that this is just about zoning, but I'm concerned about the reason because of noise in the neighborhood. And so I just wanted to mention that I can't represent the neighborhood, but I can represent myself. And I'm sure that some of the other people that are even closer than I am would have something to say. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're on the third. We have. Oh, we have another. Yes. I apologize for not getting up here quicker. My name is Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I am the president of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm here tonight to speak in favor of this rezoning for two reasons, actually. The first one has to do with... I think the rezoning is consistent with the kinds of growth that you as a council have been promoting, the kinds of growth that we at the Chamber as your economic developer have been promoting. We see this being very positive growth, both around our trails, which we often call, as you know, ribbons of commerce. And you realize that our community is changing rapidly, and particularly on the south end. Now, I'm a little biased. I lived on the south end. And in complete disclosure, my family and I are getting ready to buy a piece of property about four blocks or five blocks from this location. So with all that disclosed, it seems from our perspective at the chamber and our recommendation to you as your economic advisor, this is a good decision to make to make this change. It is safeguarded and protected by that conditional use permit, so it's not an open day on just making whatever you want to use that facility for. I have been on the facility. I was there a few months ago as the idea was being – completed and put together i've been back um it seems to me that it is very fitting and very appropriate with the development we have along with the arts corridor and will fit in very well so we strongly urge you to vote for this amendment and hope that you will thank you all right now does anybody else want to address this on that okay i'm going to bring it back I'm going to bring it back to the council. What are the final comments of the council before we vote? All right, so. I just want to say for the people who are thinking about voting against this because we've had another outdoor music venue that's had issues. I'm not a libertarian but I kind of hate it when we as a government say that one person can do something and then another group can't because the first group didn't do so well if you've got issues with the other open music venue I think we need to look at conditional use permits a lot of music in general so that more businesses can do this I don't want to close this off To all future businesses because we kind of had a bad actor on the first one I would love to see music here. I think this is an appropriate place for it I hope that we can work on our conditional use permits for outing music that makes it great wherever we put it Thanks Have looked at both sides of the situation pretty seriously, I live close to the entertainment district and uh one or two well i live west of maple but the uh i know that we will be looking at noise complaints you can go back and look at the history of noise in fayetteville all the way back to georgia's remember when that was a big deal and then recently with the uptown music venue And so that was a concern of mine whenever I was trying to figure this out, because I do think that we have to preserve the neighborhood the best we can for the people that live there. Another thing that was a concern of mine that I mentioned was the parking. There is a group of us that might be my age or older that might be a little bit overweight and clumsy. Bicycles are not an option for parking. for getting around for people like us. I'm just saying that is not an argument that's going to work for me. On the other hand, I am supporting this rezoning. And the reason is this part of town is dynamic. It is right in the area where we want to have a destination for the arts. This is going to add to that, the neighborhood having an identity that will go along with our economic development plan because the creative economy is one of the seven points in that plan. And years ago, the Chamber of Commerce, when I was affiliated with them, looked very seriously at the impact of the creative economy, and I became a big supporter of it with the data that was gathered back when I was there, and I still am. This was right after the mayor was elected, and we had the Fayetteville Forward Committee. So I know that there's going to be some people that I've talked to that will question why I'm supporting it. But all in all, when you balance both sides of the issues and you look at the future and the opportunities in the future that this is going to offer us, a part of town that one time was very stagnant and now is seeing a Revitalization a very needed revitalization that's going to leave lead to good good things and I know that we will get parking and noise complaints. I'd get them all the time anyway But and they're serious it that's the comfort that you have in your neighborhood and But I think due to the dynamic nature of this neighborhood, it's going to fit very well. So I just wanted to mention that. Okay. Teresa. Thank you. I certainly like the idea of having a music venue in there, and I love the idea that it's close to the trails. Very supportive of that. I have a few more questions. So, Garner, as part of the conditional use permit, is a set number of parking places required or anything like that? It is a discretionary review. The ordinance requires a site plan. That shows where the buildings are located and where the parking is located we We have Suggested that we would ask for a parking plan We've also suggested that the applicant is free to seek agreements with surrounding parking that is already available within easy walking distance and After The last meeting, we looked at that in a lot more detail. There are a lot of opportunities. There are a lot of opportunities. They're not right at the site, but there are a lot of opportunities in the neighborhood. And if they were to provide a parking plan, would you ask to see leases or agreements of that sort of thing to – Yes, that could be part of their proposal, which would strengthen their proposal in terms of the parking issue. It isn't as if the Planning Commission would have to require that. It is a discretionary process, and the ordinance doesn't require it. But it could be made a part of the... requirements of the conditional use permit to reduce the impact on the area. Okay. Second question, do we have a maximum decibel level for noise? Is there anything? Yes. There is, I believe it's 75 decibels. And also the conditional use permit specifically says that the ordinance says that violations of the decibel levels of sound can be a reason if we document it for revoking the permit. So I think the ordinance is very well drafted. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank... The gentleman who came to speak about the noise, because I feel like probably a lot more of your neighbors will be Thinking of that as the potential is there. So what I want to say to you, because I feel like, you know, you're the only one here who's representing a big group of people who will have issues, I would encourage you to talk to your neighbors and get, you know, grouped together to talk about what would be ideal for you. You're living in this really dynamic area now that the cultural arts district. That's great for you because your property value is going up. Um, it's great for you because you're going to have a lot of, you know, energy and you don't have to drive anywhere to go do things. So there's good parts of it, the noise of the rough part. But what we want to know is what works for you if you're interested in, you know, giving that input, if you're, if, you know, can compromise some, you know. Um, so on that, I want to ask, um, You know, Gardner, what is the process for when that comes around? You know, what will be the process for more public input on that potential conditional use if this passes? The Planning Commission public hearing, which the 500-foot property owners will receive notification. I don't know if you're in that 500 foot or not, but if you could help get people to know about it. I think it's a really exciting project, but I also want to know that you're heard. The other thing is I would like to encourage the applicant to find some more collaboration partners for the parking that are closer, because I agree with Mark that I feel like a lot of people won't want to drive quite that far or walk that far. And, um, however, I am very interested in seeing a project that doesn't involve parking. I think this is good. I think it's good for us to try new things and to encourage people to walk and bike. And I think that we can be innovative in a city that way to, to encourage that. Um, let's see here finally I just want to say um I want to support this as for the culture arts district I think it's good for the creative economy to have more energy and vibrancy down there but I definitely don't want to discount the neighbors concerns and um so I'm glad you're here um let's see here I think I believe that's it thank you okay Yes. I'm going to be in support of this. I've thought a lot about it, and it's just really just such a perfect location for this as this entire area begins to transition into, I guess, something new. But we're going to also have the Farmers Co-op is sold across the MLK from this. So this could be a hub for a lot of people to come and listen to music and socialize and that sort of thing. I think I agree with Garner. I feel like any problems we have with our parking, the sound, the decibel level, anything like that, we can go back and tweak it later on and that will give it ample time for people to get behind if there's a problem with the sound to really work together and try and figure out what they can do to to you know temper it a little bit but I'm going to be in support of this thank you yes yes yes yes yes Scroggins yes yes yes yes yes all right thank you all number three in order to prohibit the purchase of expanded polystyrene foam with the city of federal monies to end the use of expanded polystyrene foam products by the city concessionaires and food trucks in city parks city off-street parking lots and to raise public awareness of the ecological damages caused by this Yes Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hark? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance to prohibit the purchase of expanded polystyrene foam with city monies to end the use of expanded polystyrene foam products by city concessionaires and food trucks in city parks and city off-street parking lots and to raise public awareness of the ecological damages caused by this product. And Mayor, this was of course brought to you initially and sponsored by Council Member Turck, and she also had a meeting with the Environmental Action Committee last night, so she might have some comments. Yes, thank you. I wanted to thank the Environmental Action Committee for their insights and suggestions and recommendations, not just last night, but while we were crafting this ordinance. I also wanted to point out a couple more facts about single-use styrofoam. Some of the latest research suggests that 25 to 35 percent of our landfill is full of styrofoam. So by weight, it's not a tremendous amount of weight, but by volume, it takes up a lot of space. and then i read a statistic yesterday that over 25 billion cups that's with a b billion cups of styrofoam are consumed or used by thrown away by americans every single year so i would hope that fayol would lead by example and that we would slowly face the sense so that small businesses in particular have enough time to adjust and know that we plan in the future to probably limit or ban styrofoam from restaurants and those kinds of things. So I just think it's important that we start slow and see how this goes and get everybody on board and have a harmonious transition in this way. Thanks. Okay. Any questions from the council? Tracy. Okay. Okay. Alright, what public comment do we have on this? Same rules apply. It looks like we don't have anybody new. Hi, my name is Abel Tomlinson. I'm with a group I formed a while back, but it kind of went defunct. It's called Plastic Free Fayetteville. We want to eliminate all single-use plastic in Fayetteville or reduce it. So the thing I heard last time, I've heard again today, is we need to be careful and go slow I certainly support this, but one thing I heard was we don't want to fall down right out of the gate. But that would make sense if we were inventing the wheel, but we're not. Over 100 cities have already gone before us and they've left blueprints. Over 100 cities have done this in 11 states. One inspiring example is in Maryland where groups of elementary students and high school students have... lobbied their city governments across Maryland and helped pass really strong polystyrene bands in these cities, much stronger than this one. And one really good example is Tacoma Park, Maryland. And here's a really good document here that I sent to the city council and the mayor. And this is actually an alternative material cost analysis. It's very detailed actually. It goes through and it shows at least 16 suppliers that offer low-cost alternatives to polystyrene. In many cases, overall, I think it's something like two cents to four cents more per item to use these alternatives. So this information is already out there. This could be easily distributed to businesses. I know Fayetteville has a sustainability office or manager. That person maybe could draft something like this up and get it out to businesses and give the businesses more time. Okay, the city might need six months to adjust, but give the businesses a year to adjust to get the ball rolling. So... It's certainly economical. In some cases, it's even cheaper. Actually, the 9-inch clamshell to-go container alternative was actually cheaper than the polystyrene. I just want to speak a little bit more of my experience cleaning up. Polystyrene, just over the last two weekends my wife and I went and canoed the West Fork of the White River from Brentwood down to West Fork and we cleaned up trash on the river for about five to seven miles. We got a huge canoe load of trash and I meant to bring pictures and video but I couldn't get it loaded. Okay. We got a huge plastic barrel and all kinds of trash. A lot of it was Styrofoam cups from fast food places, Styrofoam cups from convenience stores, Quickie Mart, a lot of them were broken into tiny pieces, and a ton of plastic bags, actually. The plastic bags were the huge one. And again, we went to Skull Creek this weekend and again found tons of styrofoam cups and to-go containers, tons of tiny, tiny pieces. It was impossible to pick up all the tiny pieces. Tons of cigarette butts. That's another story. We need to have environmental cigarette butts maybe. These were right off of Dixon Street, thousands of cigarette butts in the stream. Tons of little plastic bracelets from our Dixon Street places. Maybe they should have paper bracelets there. and the usual trash. Something that needs to be kept in mind is we're picking all this plastic trash off of our streams here and a lot of this, we're getting a tiny fraction of it when we go and pick it up in our canoe, but most of it is still there or it washes into Beaver Lake. That's our drinking water. And there is scientific evidence saying that polystyrene actually is a neurotoxin. It harms your brain, and it's also a carcinogen. They've proven it causes cancer to laboratory animals, so it likely causes cancer to humans. And you could say, well, obviously there might not be that much in Beaver Lake right now, but every day there's more and more polystyrene. More and more plastic bags are going into our water supply, so at some point, The chemicals have to eventually add up. And, you know, we have cancer everywhere. Why would you want to increase that? And I think the people in the United States are hungry for big, bold ideas and leadership. And... I really feel like it would be nice to have a comprehensive action on single use that not only includes a more expansive polystyrene measure, but also to include plastic bags. Aldi's and Natural Grocery have already shown that you can have a grocery store without single-use plastic bags. All of France doesn't have plastic bags. Everywhere. 18 countries in Africa don't have plastic bags. So please consider making a more expansive ban. Thank you. Thank you. Andrew Miles, 1884 North Caton Drive, Fayetteville 72704. I'm the current chair of the Environmental Action Committee. As Councilmember Turk mentioned, this went to our committee last night. We've been discussing it for months. I'd like to reiterate our full endorsement of this ordinance and just to kind of pacify some of the concerns that were voiced two weeks ago and that will likely be concerned here tonight. The ordinance is written and as the operation plan to implement addresses most, if not all, of those concerns. So I'd just like to reserve myself to sit here. If any council member or any other public comment would need EAC questioning, I'll be here for the duration of this topic. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mike Whittaker, 365 North Olive, also a member of the Environmental Action Committee. And I'm here to vote with my feet in support of this ordinance. I mean, we live in a state called the natural state. We regulate all kinds of things, whether it's litter of any type. is regulated on the highway. We regulate asbestos and things that can be harmful to our health that become friable. And this is a product that can also do that. So it's almost kind of a common sense kind of thing that we would look to... regulate those forms of plastic that are so lightweight to become airborne and become easily pieces of litter. So I just encourage you for having the wherewithal to take up the topic and to consider it. And you have my support, my wife's support, in the sense of being willing to do what we need to do to write letters to the editor and things of that nature. Because it's not an easy topic. And we know that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, um, that, that you consider this as not just a responsibility to consider all sides, but to use your wisdom and discretion. And so I think that the timeliness of this is just so appropriate for your consideration, and I would encourage your passage. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Annie Littell. I live at 517 East Johnson Street in Fayetteville. And I'm just really proud of Teresa Turk for bringing this up with the help of lots of people, I'm sure. I think you should pass this, and that doesn't mean I don't think you should pass something bigger and better soon. But I don't see any reason not to start where we are right now with the city, let the city grow. find out how it goes and give it a lot of publicity and help the businesses as was mentioned know where they can get products that aren't super expensive because that's their biggest concern that i've heard is it'll be too expensive so if it's not true or if it can help them figure that out i think they would love to get rid of styrofoam so i hope you pass this i have a feeling you will but i hope that you also continue looking at a city-wide ban of styrofoam finding out if it's legal and all the things that you need to do but thank you for considering this thank you who else would like to address us hello andrew raglan at 127 university avenue In my opinion, this is a great thing, but it just doesn't go far enough. For instance, number six plastics are made out of the same material as polystyrene. However, versus 500 years to break down like expanded polystyrene, number six plastics can take up to 1,000 years. The plastic bags, as mentioned, in a landfill setting take up to 1,000 years to break down. Excuse me. I don't believe that the ban just being for city municipalities and city property is quite far enough either. And all these products only last for or only have a useful life of minutes, hours. Plastic bags are averaged of a usefulness of about 12 minutes while you carry them home from the store, and then they last in our landfills for 1,000 years. To me, that's ludicrous. Yeah. I know businesses will complain about the cost and everything, but if it's a citywide ban, not just food trucks on city property, but all the restaurants, then everybody has to raise their cost in order to use a compostable product, putting everyone at a level playing field. So I don't feel how any one person could feel attacked if it was a citywide ban. We would also save room in our landfills if we weren't using these products, and we There's, from my research, over 200 municipalities in the country that have put a ban or a tax on plastic bags in general, and they've all had really good success with San Francisco saving an estimated $600,000 a year in plastic disposal handling, basically the trash. Other cities have seen up to 90% reduction in garbage in the waste drainage system, saving the city a lot of money and having to clean out our water drainage systems. Two other states, California and Hawaii, have banned it. 127 countries have bans or taxes on plastic bags. I just feel like we're... We're having to play catch up at this point and being called the natural state. We should be leading by example I also feel that this issue is fairly urgent for us to do. I don't feel like we should go slow because there have been several other state governments that have Preempted their municipalities from putting bands on plastic and styrofoam so the states have stepped in and said to the cities that they aren't allowed to ban it and I don't feel like if we I move slowly that that won't happen here. I guess that's all I got. Thank you. Hi, my name is Talia Robson, 110 South University, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I believe what we do today does matter tomorrow, and I don't believe that we should wait. I am definitely in support. I'm grateful for the support here today. I also would like to ask that we support further Bans on more plastics. My father in 1989 began asking this city the question in regards to plans for an incinerator here in Fayetteville. Where does the ash go? And he asked that question over and over again. Finally, as we know, the incinerator was defeated. And we have a lot to be thankful for. And I think that we should ask ourselves the same question. Where does the plastic go? And we find it in our creeks and waterways. And let's do everything that we can. Thank you. Thank you. Nathan Hudson, 724 North Washington Avenue. Just recently, my children were looking for volunteer opportunities to complete their application for Camp War Eagle. And in our beautiful neighborhood, Washington Willow area, you look around, you don't see a lot of trash. It's a beautiful neighborhood. There's drainage ditches. And so as part of their volunteer opportunities, they went down into the drainage ditch with supervision. and pulled just an insane amount of plastic bags, you know, all the things you see mentioning. Just because we don't see it just blowing through the streets doesn't mean it's not there. It's everywhere. As Talia mentioned, incinerators. In Afghanistan, I had to live next to burn pits. There's all kinds of problems with that, respiratory issues going on. There's a burn pit registry that I'm on. Burning all this stuff, you know, It eventually makes its way into our environment and our bodies. And I second everyone else. We need to take bold measures. Who's here supporting? Who really wants to support plastic bags and styrofoam? I mean, to me, that's just a crazy idea. The times now, everybody is ready for it. So I support this. I applaud everyone. And I think we need to continue moving forward, plastic bags especially. Let's hit that next. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us? Bob Walker from 127 South University. I moved here eight years ago and have been totally uninvolved and uninterested pretty much in local politics. Coming to, like so many of us, distrust a lot of our even elected officials. I came here in the last meeting somewhat apprehensive as to what I would find. And I left here pretty proud of what I saw in you guys, and I commend you for your sensitivity to this issue. And we just live in a time where our compliance doesn't work, and we can't afford it. We can't remain asleep. We have to find our voice, we have to find our courage, and we have to stand up for what's right. And I just encourage you to really find a way to introduce this and get this done just to the limit of what can be done. We're in dire straits here, and we need to wake up to that. We've got a press that doesn't really want us to be aware of that. So it's You have to do for us, it seems, what we're unwilling to do for ourselves. And I'm not speaking for the folks who showed up today. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, I am Taylor Beebe, local Fayetteville resident. I just wanted to say that I work at a small business right down the street, a restaurant. And just through the power of the employees, we were able to implement a recycling program with thanks to the city. We also completely got rid of our styrofoam. Excuse me, I don't know why I'm so nervous. We got rid of all of our styrofoam. Now we have compostable takeout boxes. Got rid of all of our plastic bags. Now we use paper bags. So I think a lot of businesses would be really receptive if we wanted to push this further. So thank you. Okay. Kyle, I believe Kyle has a question. I have a question for you. Since you're the first one that's come up with testimonial working at a small business who's already made this transition, do you have any feedback on what the cost impact was to the business? I don't personally. I can't say that I'm not in charge of the finances. I'm just simply an employee who thought we needed change, and it was nice that our owner was receptive. I mean, we're still doing it. It's been over a year now. And they're incredibly supportive of all of us doing that. So here's maybe an easier question to answer from that perspective then. Have you noticed any change in customers coming in the door because of this? Oh, absolutely. Well, yeah, we definitely have customers who every time we'll bring them a box and they're like, oh, cool, it's like compostable, not that they actually... compost compost all the time but um it is nice to see their response um for us taking a step in the right direction as far as minimizing our carbon footprint thank you for leading that in one small place thank you anyone else okay i'm going to bring it back to the council I just want to start by saying thanks to Theresa Turk for bringing this up. This is definitely something I want to see more of. I want to thank the citizens for coming out and speaking. Don't worry about being nervous. I've been up here a couple years and I'm still nervous every time I speak, so that's expected. I look forward to voting for this. I also look forward to voting to ban Star Farm across the city. I don't know if that needs to be tonight. I really would like to get something kind of easy to get it on the radar that we're kind of coming and then businesses will talk. I would hate for us to up this. And then have somebody come and stop the entire thing. And I guess I should ask legal on that. Would it stop what we intend to do now if we did more and they attacked that? One reason that we brought it forward when we did is that we were waiting for the legislature to adjourn and finally adjourn. I doubt very seriously whether the governor will call a special session to try to stop us from helping our economy and ecology at the same time. So I really think that until the legislature goes back into session in almost two years, they will not really have the opportunity to do anything. I also think that if we can establish a good program, a program that's accepted by our users and businesses as well as our citizens, a program that doesn't force feed something very quickly but works with our businesses, looks at the studies, I think that we're That won't, what will happen, I hope, as I'm taking the long view here, if we can do something carefully, if we can get studies done by our own staff about the savings and the need for this, if we can have reach-outs, which I hope that we're going to do, and I've got to say I challenged our committee here, our environmental action committee, and they took it up, that we wanted them to work with some of our city staffs to go out to the businesses to present our plans to them, to listen to them, listen to their issues, try to make this work very seamlessly, not only for styrofoam, but for bags also. And maybe not just for plastic bags, because some people don't wanna have the one, the single bag. So we really would rather have reusable bags and not just throw away bags no matter what they are. But I think if we can do that, Then when we have the agreement, we enact it all, I think we might be affecting reduction of styrofoam and plastic bags and stuff like that, not only in Fayetteville, but in many other cities around the state who will be watching to see how did it work. Did it work? Was it smooth? Did the people accept it? Did the business accept it? And if it does work that way, I think there are numerous other towns in Fayetteville, cities in Arkansas, that will do the same thing. And some of them might even be our northern neighbors who I think are going to see the very good value of this because I know Walmart sees a value in this. And I think that if we can do it right, so instead of doing a fast thing, and making a big splash, I would rather go slow enough in that we get good acceptance and we have a model for other cities to copy. And so that's, I'm not in favor of going slow. I'm in favor of going deliberately and getting the best product we can and make it work. And I think if that works and other cities do it, that when the legislature comes around, we're not going to be the boogeyman. There will be many other cities that have done it, and the business will have accepted it, and so they won't feel like they're going to make a lot of political hay by crashing us down. So that is really my goal, and I want to thank the Environmental Action Committee. It is a fine committee, a lot of really highly educated, highly experienced people, and dedicated, because I told them this was going to be work, and they took a vote, didn't they, to do it. And also Peter there and Brian Pugh, who have been very helpful on that, are going to provide help for this. I think that we can work out a program here, and I'm very happy that the city council is so united on this. So I hope you pass this one. And then we are going to work as fast as we can, but carefully to get much more comprehensive things through. We also have to remember there have been some setbacks in courts on the plastic bag issue. So we want to look at those, make sure whatever we do is going to address the times that we had problems in court so that we won't have a problem in court. So that's... I think that I don't want to go slow. I want to go carefully, and so we can have a great product to show not only our citizens but other cities. Okay, thank you. Like I said, I look forward to voting for this, and I know Teresa well enough that she'll come with more, and I look forward to voting for that when it comes. Thank you. Okay, Mark. I really, in my heart, wanted to get everything banned tonight, and it... It took, again, a lot of contemplation and gathering information, and I do trust Kit with his analysis of why it's better to be deliberate than aggressive. Just a minute ago, I was thinking, man, I really want to amend this. I really want to amend this. But I also know better than to do that myself. Because there was so much thought and so much work behind what we had in front of us with the committee and with Teresa and with the city attorney that I'm going to respect their opinion, even though I would like to take number five and just say let's do it. But if people are wondering, we can still have a resolution with a plan. And I think that that's what will be next. Well, I know it will be. Or I don't, but I'm going to talk about it more. Let me put it that way. This is not new with city council. This has been a discussion for a while. And for the, you know... To have an engaged city with engaged citizens like we do here in Fayetteville, with 35 committees to offer advice to the city and city council, we have to respect the advice that they give us. If you ever have a chance to watch the nominating committee and see the caliber of individuals and the skills that they bring forth, for our city committees, and I don't know another committee, I mean another city with 35 advisory committees and commissions, but because I do have ultimate respect for the work that has been put into what is in front of us tonight, I will certainly support it, but I really wanted to just go forward and do the whole thing. So I think that there's a lot of us up here that feel that way, but bear with us and, I think that you'll see some action with urgency, but also with deliberate contemplation. Okay, sure. Thanks. I'm just so pleased that the city and Teresa in particular worked so hard to bring this forward, and Environmental Action Committee. It's just something that we all need to do all across the country and across the world and everywhere. And I posted something on social media after our last meeting about this, and I got lots of comments, and they were all about, when are you going to take out the single-use plastic bags? You know, let's get rid of those too. I'd love to add more to this, but I think I want to err on the side of caution. I'm going to vote in favor of this and hope that we can, with good steady work on it come up with a solid plan to add more items to it that will be very effective and not kind of make us a moving target for some detractors in Little Rock maybe but I'll be voting in favor of this thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I think that the folks that showed up tonight give us a pretty good indicator of where the community is on this. But even then, these are just the really passionate people that come out to a city meeting, not a great representative sample. So I've got some other statistics to share. No one will be surprised, and I'll talk about this more later, but I spend a little too much time on the Internet. And... you're often well advised to avoid the comments, especially on some of our news posts. And while the comments about this story two weeks ago did include the occasional question about whether we were becoming Communist China, I thought those were ironic, because even Communist China has stopped taking some of our trash. The vast majority of comments, even in those dark, dank comment dungeons of the internet, were, why aren't we doing more? And so I think we can be confident that there is broad community support for this and to keep going with it. One of the other big Complaints that I see on the internet if you're ever on the next door app about every third day somebody's questioning the product that were left in their recycling bin and Then the debate goes into why don't we accept as many products as other communities do and I find myself writing paragraphs and paragraphs about how we have a more responsible recycling system than others and we don't accept the things we can't get rid of and If we can't get rid of it through recycling, if we can't recycle it, we should be working to limit it and not produce as much of it because it's not like we can send it to communist China anymore. So given the option to amend this and do more or pass it and come back with another, I think we get to the same result. I'm always in favor of doing something that's better than what we have right now with a promise to come back and do better than this later. And I'm confident now that we will be doing that very soon. So I look forward to voting for this one tonight and voting for something else in two weeks and something else after that. Okay.
 Sorry. Yeah, I just want to say thank you again to Teresa and to the staff, to Kit and all the city staff and everyone who came to speak in support of this. I also posted something on social media and got overwhelming support about it, excitement. What I do want to say is that I feel that the people who came to speak to expand it further, I know one of the reasons that I love Fayetteville and I think that we all love Fayetteville so much is we all value the environment. We know that this is very, very, very important. and this is one of the reasons that I love the city so much. So I don't feel like you should worry that we're going to continue to push to expand this. So that's something that we can see here. So don't fear there. But I do think that we should lead by example, and I appreciate the advice that's been given for us to do this in an incremental step. So I'll be supporting this. Okay, thank you. Yes, thank you mayor and what I guess I'm more or less thrilled that the council is a muni more or less unified on this issue and making advancements and I think that's really encouraging to me and I Think I can say that too on behalf of the citizens that I've spoken with directly because there have been several statements made tonight by by elected leaders, our city attorney. I'm curious because I'm in the habit of asking practical questions. How long do we think we need to develop a program? Because it sounds like there's a resolution brewing that would put a timeline on developing such a program. I would say that we can get it done what I would think is relatively quickly within a couple months probably. We're going to have a resolution to present to you all at the agenda session about your commitment and asking the mayor to use his staff to help with this. And we've talked with the Environmental Action Committee about what we would like to see them do, and that would be relatively quickly. They've already done a lot of work to get rid of the Basie plants and stuff, so this might be not as hard as what they've already done. Who knows? But I know that Teresa is eager for us to go forward. I still need to do some additional legal research to make sure that we don't somehow step across the line where we could get slapped back. We don't want to have any reactions back against us. But that can be done relatively quickly. So like I say, I would hope that we would be able to, and we're going to look at other states' laws and what they've done, their ordinances. We have to keep in mind Arkansas has its own state laws and so sometimes there's more restrictions on that. But I would think that I would like to see a goal of getting something to you in a couple months. That's great. Thank you. Well, I'm so delighted and encouraged by all the support here for this measure. Thank you everybody. Obviously this is a team effort and a community effort for us to implement something like this. But one of my campaign promises last year when I was running was to reduce significantly our plastics and eliminate these plastic bags. So there'll be more coming. We're not going to stop. With all the strong support that we've seen on social media and through the EAC and through other folks that have been here tonight and were here two weeks ago. So this is just the first step, but we do want to be successful. We want to make sure everybody knows. We want to get as many people on board as we can and make it, you know, let's make it the most successful program in the country. Let's get out there and lead. We're catching up right now, but I think we can... Actually have the best program. So thank you Any other final comments from the council who would like to add my support to this as well? I certainly want to thank Teresa Turk for bringing this forward Thank you for your courage your vision I want to thank the Environmental Action Committee. I want to thank citizens spoke here tonight I'm going to thank the City Council because at the end of the day this council always does the right thing you know i i know abel said something tonight that uh that i agree with him you know i i involved in a lot of these city cleanups in these streams and uh every time i go you know i'll be involved in a few of these cleanups through the year and and i'm always amazed at the litter i find in those streams particularly after a heavy rain i usually will fill a 55 gallon bag with polystyrene cups and plastic bottles, lots of those floating around. And I know that if the rain has been heavy that the plastic bags are hanging from the limbs of the trees, sort of like tinsel on a Christmas tree. It's certainly not as attractive. And I always, when I go through one of these cleanups and I see that, I always sort of shake my head and always think we're a better community than this. And tonight, it's going to take all of us working together on keeping our planet clean and safe. And with the passing of this particular ordinance tonight, we're taking yet another step to begin to make it better for all of us and our children. And that's why moments like this is important. as i always say as we say is historic so again i want to thank council member turk the city council environmental action committee and the citizens for supporting this and we're just getting started folks so on we go so with that sondra would you please call the roll peteras yes marsh yes kenyan yes petty yes grogan yes bunch absolutely turk yes smith yes okay thank you all All right, under new business. Number one, in order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 19-6605 for approximately .18 acres located at 1134 South Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban... Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Carter. mayor uh this request is located at the southeast corner 11th in washington 11th street serves as an entrance to the developing willow band neighborhood which involves city contribution to the infrastructure the surrounding uses are residential with exception to the east it's vacant the surrounding zoning is neighborhood conservation It is in the Walker Park neighborhood plan. Goals, of course, are to preserve the established Walker Park neighborhood and to encourage mixed-use connectivity and walkability. The implementation of the plan is always an issue. There were no public comments at the Planning Commission, and the Planning Commission staff recommend approval. We'll be happy to answer any questions. That's the applicant. Mr. Mendez is the applicant. I believe he's present. Would you like to speak for council? Okay? My name is Gustavo Mendez and Trying to resolve this just to build more Attainable properties smaller houses cheaper prices. I was involved. I was a project manager on the Four smaller houses that we built on 9th Street for Really well Guess like that lower price, you know, it's a good nice Home that's what we're planning to do there as well working and doing the nice landscaping just Back again to smaller more attainable housing for people Thank you, what public comment do we have on this see none of right back to the council I I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hingham. Petty. Yes. Grogan. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Tart. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. And New Orleans to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6605 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 1134 South Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation and Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. I have a question for Garner. Garner, did you have any opposition to this at all from anybody? Not that I'm aware of. Nobody was at the Planning Commission. Okay. Good. All right. Second. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Ms. Sundridge, please call the vote. I think I just recorded a unanimous vote. I'll go back. Okay. In the interim, I want to thank the City Council for passing the expanded polystyrene policy Affirm ordinance and I promise you we will be working hard with the Environmental Action Committee and city staff if you approve this resolution to continue that. I want to thank, I don't know if I thank Kit for his work on that. It was swell. So thank you very much for your work on that. Happy to do it. You may not be able to vote, but I'm going to call roll. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Uch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6605 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 1134 South Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, so none. So I'm going to let you please call the roll. Guterres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes. Okay, number two, an order to rezone that property ascribed to the zoning petition RZN 19-6618 for approximately 0.24 acres located at 1372 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Okay. be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to neighborhood services limited section two that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one Okay, go ahead. Yeah, Mayor and Council, this application is located at the northeast corner of College and Ella is one block north of 15th Street. The surrounding is vacant to the north, Walker Park across the street. And Walker Park, it's the active part of the park and it has angled parking on College The surrounding zoning is RIU to the north and neighborhood conservation three sides and P1 public institutional across the street. Of course, it's in the Walker Park neighborhood plan, encourages diversity of existing land uses. It is adjacent to the park. It is a very active area. The applicant indicated a desire to try to do a food truck, and this is the lowest intensity district that allows that use. Of course, they have to go through a separate application and get health department approval and so on for that use. I mentioned the Walker Park neighborhood plan. Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. Was there anybody complaining against any of the meetings? No, nobody. all right what questions do we have in the council on this okay is uh is the applicant are they here i i believe that is present you'd like to say something good evening everyone jesse mill we here current resident of 432 west holly uh i just this idea kind of came to me a little at a time i spend some time i spend a lot of time at all the parks in the city well most of them at least And I noticed that near Lake Fayetteville, the food court up there had a considerable amount of success and was always popular. And I think it provides a good service to the people in the community and that visit the park. And it slowly dawned on me that I might have that opportunity to do something similar in South Fayetteville. I would like to mention that there's not enough room at current. There would be room for one food truck. And at best, I think there would be room for two. So as far as scale goes, it would be much smaller than what's happening on North, on the North side of town. Uh, I personally think that it would be, uh, uh, Something that the community might enjoy down there. It would be a benefit and provide a service that I think would allow people to enjoy while they're at the park and the community close by to be able to possibly grab dinner one or two nights a week without driving anywhere and without cooking. They could simply take a walk in the park and have some dinner, and that's it. It just slowly dawned on me that this might be a good idea, and here I am trying to make it happen. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate your comparison to the Lake Fayetteville food truck court up there. I had lunch up there the other day, and it reminded me of how my food was served. So on this lucky night, you get to answer the question. As a potential food truck owner, how do you feel about styrofoam? You know, I think that's fantastic, and I think the more we steer away from plastics and styrofoam, that's fantastic. i will throw this out there though i don't think i'm actually going to be the cook i'm going to look for someone my goal is to find someone with good food there's a good chance i'll be living there and i think that's going to i don't want to provide a bad service to the neighborhood the city attorney has reminded us of our powers the the landlord and i hope he'll exercise yours as well okay any other questions for the applicant okay thank you any public comment on this see none of them bring it back to the council I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So I'm going to please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZ and 19-6 618 for approximately quarter acre located at 1372 South College Avenue from neighborhood conservation to neighborhood services limited So I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Yes Yes. Indian? Yes. Indian? Yes. Yes. French? Yes. Turkish? Yes. Yes. In order to rezone that property, described in rezoning petition RZN 16-6618 for approximately a quarter acre located at 1372 South College Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Neighborhood Services Limited. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Thank you for doing this. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number three, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition. RZN 19-6620 for approximately 11.79 acres located northwest of Joyce Boulevard and Old Missouri Road from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services and RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre kept. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from residential agricultural to community services and RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are to hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Mayor, this parcel is presently vacant. It is zoned using our holding district, our residential agriculture district. The surrounding uses are its zone, RM24 on the north, but it's used for small single-family homes, apartments to the west and vacant across the street, office uses to the south. The surrounding zoning is RM24 west. There's an RO district to the west and to the south residential office, and it's already across the street. It is designated city neighborhood in the 2030 plan, which encourages a variety of residential building types and an increased density. Issue are the request to rezone to the form-based district, both of these districts community services, and RM24 would be considered form-based districts since they established the bill two line. We did not get any public comment. The Planning Commission and staff recommended approval, and I believe the applicant, Mr. Hugh Jarrett, is here if you have questions for him. Hugh, you want to say anything? Yes, sir. Thoughts or not? My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here on behalf of the applicant. I have a little PowerPoint that I can walk through very briefly. Or another presentation. We enjoy them. All right. Matt, I don't have to. It's dependent on how the vote's going to go. But no, I was going to show just very quickly. Unless somebody objects, we'll go ahead and show it. You're only allowed 30 seconds on you. We've shown everybody else's tonight. I'm going to be very quickly, very quick. Yes, sir. So the piece in question is the big... undeveloped area here in the middle to the to the west is the park apartments which we currently manage To the east is an undeveloped Field that's on the market now and then the south You know is basically the Joyce commercial corridor and then to the north is owned multifamily, but with a single-family houses the What we're trying to do in this location is basically provide workforce housing in the area. So this is from the city mobility plan. If you look at where everybody works in Fayetteville, basically you've got downtown around the university, which is one of the big job centers, and then you've got the uptown Joyce and College Center. So there are basically two areas where everybody is working, and we're trying to get housing close to where people are working. If you look in, again, it says the average residence commute is 7.4 miles in the city of Fayetteville. So real quick, this is, again, IDL's plan. It said that recently completed residential growth, and this is actually a few years old now. You can see that a lot of residential housing has gone around downtown. A lot of that student housing, not all of it, but a lot of housing has gone around downtown where people are close to their jobs and where they're going there. Not as much has gone in the north part of town. You have the two that are kind of behind Target. Both of those at this point are a few years old, and they're full. So that area is really one that has not had... A lot of residential growth. It has had a lot of job growth, and we see that in some of the properties that we have there. So what we're trying to do is get people close to where they're working. The bike trail runs immediately in front of this property. There's a bus stop immediately in front of this property. And again, we're located on one of the major job corridors in Fayetteville. So we think we can get people close to where they're going to work. Okay. We have not heard from any of our neighbors. Again, we're the neighbor to the east. If we are approved here, it will allow us to do some kind of cross connection to Old Missouri so that people from the park can actually get out to that stoplight. And I think that will actually improve conditions on Joyce somewhat if we are fortunate enough to get approved. So that is my presentation. And if there's any questions, I'll i'd be happy to answer okay what questions do we have for the applicant okay uh do we have any public comment on this okay right back to the council it's not okay uh i kind of want to talk about traffic not because of density i think this would actually lower traffic because we're putting people closer to where they work but curb cuts are a choice um Would council like to talk about what we can do to limit curb cuts? How many can they have? Is there anything we can do at this stage to make sure that they don't have more than one? Well, a property owner is entitled to have a curb cut when his land is abutting a street. And I see that they are abutting Joyce. This is a development issue rather than a zoning issue, and I don't want to speak because I hadn't studied it. No engineers looked at it. I don't know if they would even request more than one. I don't know if Hugh knows that. But certainly our access management standards would be looked at at that point in time, and we would not be legally required to allow them to do more than one. I'm not saying that from an engineering point of view they might have to. Thank you. And I don't know, and I can't say that, but we would not be legally required to give them more than one for this plot of land. Okay. I hope it stays at one. Thanks. Would the one have to go on Joyce since they have multiple street frontages? They are entitled to access a street that they abut. Not each street, but a street? Each street that they abut. Okay. But that was a nice try. Okay. Smythe. Okay, no problem. All right. So what do you all want to do? Mark? I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. Okay. Sarah? I'll second that. Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6620 for approximately 11.79 acres located northwest of Joyce Boulevard and Old Missouri Road from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services and RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 units per acre. Tracy. Thank you. thank you mayor um you know this is a large rezoning um property and i just think that we need to give the citizens more time to know about it a little concerned that there hasn't been any public comment um and so i'd like to hold it on the second reading if we could right anyone opposed to that everybody good with that all right we'll leave it right here then for two weeks all right Number four, an ordinance to approve Vacation 19-6617 for properties located at 4661 North Copper Creek Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance is duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk in Section 3 that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Garth. Yeah, Mayor. Okay. Was there any public comment on it? No. Okay. Any questions from the council? Is the applicant here? I believe Mr. Reed is here. Yes. Okay. Good evening. My name is Justin Reed with Bates & Associates Surveying and Engineering, representing the property owner on this project, and I would be happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant? All right. All right. Any public comment on this? okay sir I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading yes yes yes yes In order to approve VAC 19-6617 for a property located at 44661 North Copper Creek Drive to vacate a portion of the general utility easement. Sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to approve the AC 19-6617 for property located at 4661 North Copper Creek Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. I just wonder, would you please call the roll? Ms. Harris? Yes. Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Fargan? Yes. Batch? Yes. Tarp? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all number five resolution approving utility construction relocation agreement with the art and self state highway commission For the relocation of utilities required by the widening improvement project on highway 16 between college Avenue and Hospital Road at a total estimated cost of two million three hundred forty nine thousand seventy eight dollars and sixty six cents with the city of portion estimated to be 871 thousand nine hundred seventy eight dollars Okay. Tim. Thank you, Mayor. The Arkansas Department of Transportation has requested utility relocations to prepare for the widening of Highway 16 or 15th Street from South College Avenue to approximately the Huntsville Road area. There will be 6,470 feet of water line replaced and 230 feet of sewer line replaced. Okay. the water and the sanitary sewer locations for this project are estimated to cost approximately 2.3 million dollars subject to public bidding the relocations are estimated to be 62.8 percent reimbursable to the city of fayetteville by the rdot based on the estimated cost this would result in rdot funding of 1.4 million in the city of fayetteville 871 thousand dollars the actual cost of course will be determined by the bidding process And this agreement is primarily to establish the reimbursable percentage for both parties. There is no budget impact at this time. Funds will be obligated to this project at the time when the construction bid is presented to the council. This item was originally presented to the Water and Sewer Committee at its September 12, 2017 meeting with a 3-0 vote to forward to the City Council for consideration. And we've been keeping the committee briefed each month for that extremely long period of time. Are you happy to answer any questions? What questions do we have for Tim on this one? into the water i'm sure yep we've been discussing this for a while it's nice to see it moving along yes it is all right uh any public comment on this okay seeing them bring back to the council sarah i mean we approved the resolution second we have a motion and second to approve the resolution so i'm going to please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number six, a resolution to develop the city of federal digital inclusion and equity plan. Last week at the agenda session I summarized the work that's already been done by the digital inclusion task force. Mayor when you started this off with a charge to make sure that every child could do their homework sitting at the kitchen table whether it required internet access or not. and that all citizens could fully engage in city government services. The committee also identified some other sort of essential engagement areas, banking and utilities and entertainment. We've zeroed in on issues of access via affordability programs, availability and adequacy we've identified needs for better digital literacy and device access in the community there's an entrepreneurship and economic development component of it and there's definitely policy and advocacy issues that we'd like to see explored and to enable all of those other pursuits So last week I introduced our committee chairman, Michelle Jabot. I would love to invite her up to talk more about our efforts tonight, except that she's in Washington, D.C. right now representing the committee at the Partnership for Progress on the Digital Divide Conference. She also represented us last month at a panel at the NDIA in Charlotte. So the effort's getting around, and Fayetteville's already being recognized for starting this conversation. So we'd like the council's consent and support to take this beyond just a discussion and develop a guiding document with goals and action items for extending digital inclusion in the community. There's already a survey in the field on the Speak Up Fayetteville site for public input. We encourage everyone to, I was gonna say everyone sitting here tonight, but I think they've all left. to go online and fill that out so that we have a full picture of the current state of affairs in the community. But since we hope to have this back in front of the council later for adoption, the mayor and I wanted to bring this resolution of support, open up the conversation tonight, and see if there are other attributes that the council feels like we should be exploring on this. I just want to add, I want to thank some folks. I want to thank Susan Norton and Keith Cito for keeping our digital infrastructure front and center in the city's overall planning efforts. I know that when Susan first came on board, I said I see this gap. And I said I want to close that gap where people can have affordable broadband, where kids can have the same. equity as all the other kids in town where they can do their homework in the kitchen. Well, she said, I think we can develop that. I certainly want to also thank Susan's participation on the National League of Cities Information Technology Committee. That's a national committee for advocacy and policy work. And I want to thank, I too want to thank the task force chair, Michelle Dubow, and the entire committee, including the Council Member Smith, for all their work this past year and a big thank you to the University of Arkansas Communications Department, Dr. Ron Warren and his research team for helping us with the survey, the federal public schools, and the federal public library for all their work. The digital inclusion, what we're going to do, this digital inclusion task force will make recommendations for, one, public policy priorities for furthering digital equity in federal. For consumers, citizens, students, job seekers, and entrepreneurs, the task force will also recommend strategies to increase paths to digital literacy. and digital citizenship, improve access to online learning and employment opportunities, and close that homework gap. So I certainly will entertain any questions you might have, and I certainly hope you'll support this. Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Kyle and everyone for working on this. I really see this also as a huge economic development piece just because I think when people have access to information, they do really great things. And so obviously for education, that's hugely important, but definitely for all those people that, I love the entrepreneurial piece, that want to have, are curious at home when they can't use the internet at work for new potential adventures, that they can research these things at home at an affordable price and potentially see a new future. And we know that our entrepreneurs are a great economic development piece. So I want to really underscore that part. And obviously for education, that is a huge, huge part. So thank you all for bringing this, and I'll be supporting it. Thanks. Sir? I move we approve the resolution. I second that motion. All right, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Other final comments from the council? Okay, seeing none, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. All right, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have a few announcements and I want to say thank you to the council for passing that resolution regarding the digital inclusion plan. It's going to be extremely important as our community begins the community counts, the census count. for the first time ever. The census will have an online component, so we see this equity issue as important not only for all of the things that I've already mentioned, but for really getting a complete count of our city for the census in 2020. And the mayor's charged me with getting a community together for the community counts, and we'll be... You'll be hearing more from me about that. I'd like to announce that the Wilson Park Pool will open this weekend, Memorial Day weekend, and May 25th on Saturday it will open at 1 o'clock. And also that enrollment is open for swimming lessons. So everybody come on out and enjoy Memorial Day weekend at the pool. uh... and city offices will be closed memorial day although uh... as is typical for that holiday trash will run as scheduled uh... we have one more announcement for you on uh... well i hope some of you Some of you were able to join us, but I hope all of you have heard about the grand opening of the Walker Park Splash Pad. It was fabulous last week, and kids are out there every single day when it's not pouring down rain, maybe even when it is raining. I don't know, but it's a fabulous addition. And then I wanted to remind everybody about the Gully Park Concert Series lineup. It's on the website. The first one will be on May 30th, so get ready for the concert series for the summer. Thank you. Okay, any other announcements I'll be traveling tomorrow to Little Rock to meet with Our doc tomorrow on our College Avenue Looking at taking that road over Area out there Also the be meeting with the municipal league. I'm on the eboard there. We will have a meeting tomorrow So we will have a long day I But I'll be in the saddle most of the day tomorrow. So anyway, if you need anything, you can contact Susan tomorrow. So anyway, I don't think I have anything else. Y'all did some really good work tonight. Really proud of you. Good day. Good night. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.