I'd like to call to order the 821st 2024 City Council meeting. John, could you please call the roll? Yes, Mayor. Berna? Here. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Jones.
 Here. More. Here. Whitaker. Here. Mayor Yarden. Here. Would you join me in the pledge, please? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, under this law of liberty and justice for all. Okay. Okay.
 Good evening, everyone. We will start with the consent agenda. Number one, resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by four generations property LLC needed for the Highway 112 Garland Avenue widening project.
 Number two, a resolution authorized the city attorney to seek condemnation of possession of certain lands owned by Osmond Investments LLC, Dunn and Davistown Homes LLC, and May Holdings LLC needed for the Highway 112 Garland Avenue widening project. Number three, a resolution authorized an application for an Arkansas Division of Aeronautics grant to fund 80% of...
 project cost for post hanger infrastructure improvements project at drake field number four resolution to authorize contract with water technology incorporated any amount not to exceed one hundred and fifty one thousand five hundred ninety one dollars pursuant to rfq 24-01 for consulting services for to develop an aquatic feasibility study to approve project
 CONTINGENCY OF $5,000 IN APPROVED BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. NUMBER FIVE, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A BUDGET ADJUSTMENT TRANSFERRING ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO THE WATER AND SEWER OPERATIONS BUDGET TO COVER THE COSTS OF STREET CUSP FOR THE REMAINDER OF 2024.
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $73,395, recognizing police impact fees collected through March 2024 for the expansion of police department operations to the entertainment district police substation. Number seven, a resolution to authorize the addition of a temporary short-term rental clerk position in the development services department for a term of six months
 for proactive short-term rental enforcement. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. John, would you please call the roll? Pertna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes, more yes Yes, thank you all let's go to unfinished business number one an ordinance to approve vacation 24 dash 006 property located at 151 West Dixon Street in Ward 2 to vacate a 273 square feet portion of access easement this was left on the second reading I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading I
 So moved second have motion to second to go to the third and final read Jonathan, would you please call the roll? Verna yes, Bunch. Yes, sir. Yes, Ritzburg. Yes Stafford yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to approve BAC 24-006 for a property located at 151 West Dixon Street in Ward 2 to vacate a 273 square foot portion of access easement. John? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. As a reminder for Council, this item was left on the second reading at your last meeting with consideration for the fact that an associated project on the property was under development review under the large-scale development process. That item did have a technical plot review meeting on May 15th. The technical plot review meeting is where staff offers technical, as the name suggests, technical feedback on a project to determine compliance or substantial compliance with our ordinances.
 before advancing it for further review or public hearing.
 Given it is a large-scale development, its progress through our process would be from technical plot review to subdivision committee and ultimately to planning commission. So what happened last week is that staff did ultimately determine that substantial compliance is being met with the project. So the project has been forwarded to our subdivision committee, which will be being held on May 30th of this month. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Do we have any questions for Jonathan on this?
 good all right well let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber allowed to speak first and those participating buzz and speak after that mayor as a point of order I don't know if the applicant had an opportunity to speak oh I'm sorry yes with the applicant like speak for it
 good evening mr mayor and council uh yes this this was before you a couple of weeks ago councilman wedeker asked that it be considered at tech plat review prior to going through to the third and final reading it has been considered as being moved to a sub subdivision committee and i would just reiterate again this is 273 square feet of an easement that has not been used in excess of 20 years so i'd ask that you follow staff's recommendation and grant the
 vacation thank you very much is there any questions for the applicant or staff on this okay well now let's take some public comment who would like to be first it's in there who'd like to address this on this topic that's in the chain okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council anybody on the zone no sir all right what discussion we're fixing to take some action so what final comments do we have in the council okay yeah Jonathan please call the roll
 Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yeah. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay, let's go on to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone the property is described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-0011 for approximately 90.65 acres located in Wards 1, 2, and 4 from planned zoning districts to various standard zoning districts. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 Mayor, before we go there, you remember the council was not satisfied at all these were non-controversial and wanted to split a couple off from the three that appeared to be non-controversial. So I have drafted an ordinance that would in fact keep the three before this council which appeared to be non-controversial. And then at the next meeting we can consider the other planned zoning districts.
 individually so that the City Council can decide on each one what they would like to have that zoning done so I did send a proposed ordinance to everyone and I think before we even read anything on this one this one should be amended to the new ordinance so you won't pass the amendment first well okay everybody read the everybody read it and ready to go all right well I'll need a motion here
 You want me to make a motion? I move that we amend to only include under this ordinance the Cliffside PZD Riu, the Westbrook Village Phase 2, and the Paddock Road Subdivision NC. Second. Second. I'm sorry that would also include the exhibits which have been modified only for those three PZDs.
 add that in there and exhibits thank you and second okay all right everybody okay all right let's vote on that john verna yes bunch yes yes harpsburg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes whitaker yes
 And Mayor, in this unusual situation, I think I probably ought to read the whole new ordinance, which is far different than the one that I read at the last meeting.
 if that's all right that's great super okay in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-0011 for 27.23 acres in the cliffside pcd westbrook village phase 2 and paddock road subdivision in wards 1 and 4 from planned zoning districts to various zoning districts
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from planned zoning districts to the following zoning districts.
 Cliffside PZD Riu Residential Intermediate Urban for 18.67 acres and RA Residential Agricultural for 7.44 acres. Westbrook Village Phase II Residential Intermediate Urban 1.42 acres and Paddock Road Subdivision NC Neighborhood Conservation for 0.20 acres.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section 1 and so that would be the second reading of that ordinance. Okay. All right Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. I do have a presentation where I can cover all the PZDs again, but at this point with the ordinance having been amended to three of the five original ones, I'm happy to serve at the council's pleasure if it'd be helpful to go over those three specifically again. Alternatively, I can touch on the only major update that's happened since the last council meeting, which I believe the council did receive some public comment from somebody who submitted a building permit application for a very specific piece of property
 on one of the, I think what's being considered the controversial ones in the Springwood Subdivision asking for it to be considered. But it's my understanding and coordinating with legal that those will be brought forward at a subsequent city council meeting and could be considered at that time. Otherwise, I'm available for any questions. As staff is the applicant for this item, we are the ones fielding all those questions, Mayor. And that's all I have, thank you. So do you all need to say anything?
 i mean i mean you're you okay with everything let me put that let me rephrase mayor i'm okay if if jonathan skips the review from last week okay okay all right i just want everybody okay well do you have any questions or anything okay i'm gonna take some public comment then all right
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone like to address this on this issue that's in the chamber susan no one on zoom mayor okay i'm going to bring back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the
 Second reading what discussion with the council like to have what action I'd move I'd move we suspend the rules and go to the third and Final reading second. We have a motion second go to the third and final reading John Berna yes lunch yes Yes, Pittsburgh yes Stafford. Yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-0011 for 27.73 acres in the Cliffside PCD Westbrook Village Phase 2 and the Paddock Road subdivision in Wards 1 and 4 from planned zoning districts to various standard zoning districts. Okay. Bob? Okay.
 Any final comments from the county? I thought you had a final comment. Anything? Okay. Jonathan, would you please call the roll? Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay. Let's go on to new business.
 resolution of intent to enact stormwater utility ordinance and establish a stormwater management and water quality and authorize additional services related to the implementation in public outreach and to approve a budget adjustment Chris Thank You mayor I have a few slides here on my show I'm handing out a Hard copy of those as well. I can get this going here
 All right, I'll try to get this in in ten minutes. I think I have just about ten minutes of discussion, so I'll do my best. Before you is a resolution of intent to enact a stormwater utility fee and fund.
 also a budget adjustment to provide funding for some additional tasks needed to move toward implementation of that. So as we go into this discussion,
 I just wanted to kind of recap where we are, where we've been, and where we're going. Talk about some of the changes that have occurred over time as we have gone through this program starting in 2018, we began to study.
 Before I do that, I do want to talk about the why. So why are we presenting this program? First of all, when we talk about water quality, the city is a MS4, which means we are a storm sewer system that is regulated by ADEQ and by EPA.
 We are right now a small MS4. We do have requirements for various stormwater management activities. As we go over 100,000 in population, and we've seen the estimates, we know that's happening at the next census, we will be a medium storm sewer system and we will have additional costs, which are undefined at this time, but we do know that they will be increased.
 And then the other half of this is the water quantity and the service expectations that our citizens expect. Right now, we are not meeting those expectations. It's really a situation where multiple things, number one, we don't have the funding to meet those expectations.
 many areas of town that are older parts of town that don't have easements but they also have inadequate storm drainage infrastructure so we don't even work on those areas and they're the ones that are most affected so that's really when we talk about equity with the newer parts of town are being being served better than the older parts of town.
 So this puts all of our properties at risk, creates water quality risks. Just got some information this afternoon just to kind of give you an indication. We have over 200 service requests in various parts of town that represent probably about a 10-year backlog for us to, under our current staffing levels. So it is something that we're very much behind on and need a mechanism for being able to
 So this is a slide I think many of you have seen before, but when we talk about stormwater management, it's very much like sanitary sewer management. When you flush your toilet or when it rains on you, it's the same scenario. That water has to go somewhere. It goes downhill through a system of pipes.
 and we have to manage that throughout that system of pipes and maintain that system all the way to our streams. And really, those at the top of the hill, we could argue that that drop of water has to be managed for a longer period of time than those closer to the bottom of the hill, so the costs are actually, could be more for those at the top of the hill. So I know this is
 We throw around a lot of numbers. You'll see a lot of numbers on our spreadsheets as you go forward, but Really, this is a pretty basic calculation We have a cost that we've determined again based on that level of service that our citizens expect that we Got out of all of the public outreach that we did back in 2018 So all of these costs for the various components this includes
 materials, labor, equipment, contractors, all of those things for all of these different aspects. And then to cover that cost, we need a source of revenue. The program uses impervious area for all of the properties, and we've designed this so that the revenue equals the cost of service. So that's really the basics of what we're talking about here.
 Just to kind of go through some of the updates that we've done since 2018. In 2018, we had about 5,400 acres of impervious area. That increased by about 460 acres in 2022, about an 8.6% increase. So we did have, obviously, we have growth, and with that, increasing impervious area. Thank you.
 Looking at the cost, we also ran those for the left side of this column is our current budget. The middle column is the additional needs that have been determined from this study. Those costs increased about 40% from 2018, really mainly just due to inflation of materials and contract labor.
 So the total program is $4.6 million needed to adequately manage our stormwater system.
 Again, when we talk about equity, this is simply based on impervious area. The total of the fees will be required to meet the levels of service expected. And then we also have a sustainable credit framework that will be continuing to develop as we go through this process. I think I mentioned this before.
 the impervious area doesn't matter what type of property where it is in the watershed or anything like that every property is treated equally so the billing approach we're assuming 1.5 million of continued program funding through the current sources using the 2022 program cost and impervious area this would be billed to the city's sewer utility customers there are about 38 000 customers
 based on the the city attorney's recommendation we have removed County state including U of A and federal properties from the equation so we're not including those areas in the calculation we also have about 13% of impervious area that could not be linked to sewer users and is not included in the building calculations so this is the the rate spreadsheet
 There are tiers, six tiers. $1.35 per billing unit is the basis and a billing unit is a thousand square feet of impervious area. You can see most of our users are in those first three tiers. That's about 81% of all of the customers would be paying in those first three tiers. So $5.74 or less.
 about 64% would actually be at the first two tiers, so under $4. Just some examples here of some of the tiers and what size homes we might be talking about. Again, this is total impervious area, so somebody who has a 2,000 square foot house would also have a sidewalk, other impervious area, so you have to include all of that impervious area on the property.
 These are some of the larger users that would be in that upper tier, so they would have a custom amount and these are just some examples of various sizes of developments and what those fees might look like.
 So that's really it. What again is in front of you tonight is a resolution of intent and a request for a budget adjustment so that we continue to develop the customer billing database. There is some
 quite a bit of back-of-house work that has to be done with our GIS group and with the consultant GIS group to develop the billing database. As part of that, we want to develop a data preview tool that would essentially allow
 Anybody who wanted to get on a website, put in an address or their information, they can see what the potential fee might be on their particular property.
 And this will allow us to continue to prepare the billing system and also will include finalizing the credit program. Chris, I have to give you some more time. How much time do you need? I am, I need about 30 seconds. Well, go ahead and take a minute.
 Yeah. This is my last slide. Okay. And again, so finalizing the credit program, that's something that we need to really make sure we set up the credit program to match up with.
 the building system and there just are a lot of ins and outs of that. And then we do intend to bring the storm utility ordinance back later this year or potentially next year depending on how quickly this moves along. And our GIS folks tell us that by August of next year they could have everything ready to begin building operations then.
 I have Alan Pugh here also who can answer any detailed questions if you if you have any Our stormwater engineer we have our consultant online and we also have Keith Macedo IT director that can answer any detailed questions that I'm not able to answer so that I can take questions What questions do we have? Let's go ahead and get started on this. Bob. Yeah, I have a few questions I think the first one's for Kit and it's just a procedural question So this is a resolution
 of intent to enact an ordinance at a later date. So in other words, we're just passing a resolution that allows them to continue their work so that they can prepare an ordinance that we'll review later through three readings, correct?
 That is correct, although they have prepared many parts of what will go into that ordinance. And so they've made a lot of progress already, but they're still going to do some more work, especially identifying property so people can click onto it and see what their actual cost would be. But yes, you'll have to come back with an actual ordinance to be read three times before the council and
 and that will be the final act that would be required for this utility to become established. Yeah, so it'll still have to go through the regular ordinance process, so we'll still have time to get a lot of public input. And I did receive some public input today, and so I wanna make sure that by passing this that I wasn't
 Saying sorry to ship us a this doesn't walk the council into anything You know has to come back as a full ordinance and the whole council will get to discuss that and have impact on that Okay. Thank you. And then I'm Chris You said fees are being removed. There won't be any fees for state or county Property, that's correct. And why is that? I?
 I think he's going to make me explain that. That's a legal issue. The Arkansas Supreme Court has made it clear that the university and other state agencies cannot be made a defendant in their courts. We cannot enforce any ordinance against them because you would have to sue them if they didn't want to do it, and we would not be allowed to do that under the Arkansas Constitution.
 So we can't charge them any fees that we would charge our citizens? They get a free pass on that? You're absolutely correct. That is correct. We cannot do that. Our ordinances are not strong enough to require the university or the federal government or other state government entities
 We can't, you know, they're a higher level of government than us, and so therefore our ordinances can affect them. So, and even the county is considered above us since they're? They're, I don't, I'm not going to say necessarily they're above us. They're certainly at least on an equal plane for us, and I think it's probably better for us to work with the county on that rather than try to impose our ordinances on them, just like I really don't want them to impose their ordinances on us.
 Gotcha. Bummer. Chris, basically the way you guys are drawing this up is someone at the top tier paying basically the same per square foot as someone at the bottom tier. No one's getting a discount for...
 For bigger right? That's correct. There's no cap. There's no it's just a it's a linear calculation amount of impervious area times that billing unit. Cool and then you mentioned credits will be credits based on people doing catchment and retention and so forth.
 Yeah, that's one that we've gotten a lot of feedback from the council so far about options. And I have to say, you guys have different opinions about that. So we've got to kind of sort through what that looks like. The other really big thing about the credit program is...
 Within our billing system, we've got to work closely with our billing group and with GIS to really understand how the credit system, if it gets too complicated, it could become very difficult to administer. So we really want to sort through that. There will be a lot more discussion about that program. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Hi, Chris. Thanks for the review of this program. You know, I'm still troubled a little bit by this 13 percent of not linked to sewer users. Are you all going to continue to try and do some detective work and figure that out a little bit more? Absolutely. Yes, that's that is one thing that and this.
 process that the consultant began and we kind of told them to hold off and to get past this checkpoint. But yes, that'll be a goal of ours to really understand where that is, what we're missing,
 We're kind of working in both directions in that we have some situations where a sewer user, say an apartment complex, has another parcel that they use for parking and we want to link those two together. I don't think we've fully completed all that. And then other situations we might have an apartment complex that has
 500 units that have 500 different sewer users, and so we need to break that bigger piece apart. So we're working in both directions, and that's the that's kind of the detail behind the scenes work that we really need to do to better understand where we are and and get that number down as low as we can. Okay. Thank you so much. Just another question, Theresa made me think of it, is our residents that are still on septic and
 like I have property that's unseptic that we may build on at some point but we're in the city limits, would they be excluded from this? They would be excluded, yes. So even though my rainwater is still coming down,
 I'll get a freebie on that. That's correct. That's again based on advice from our city attorney and the way the state law reads the enabling legislation leads us in that direction. That's an unfortunate result of the legislature instead of doing an entirely new subchapter on stormwater and stormwater maintenance.
 Decided just to say everywhere you have see sewer you see stormwater So they use one little section and says just substitute these things They both mean the same thing, but that means if you're not on sewer, which I am NOT I have a septic tank that means it's not effective for me So we have to follow the state law at this point in time which is Frustrating but I don't know how we get around it. Okay. Thank you anything else?
 Okay, well let's take some public comment. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the city council. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those that are participating in the chamber will speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber?
 Hello Mayor and City Council, my name is Dot Neely, I live in Ward 3 and I just want to voice my support for moving forward with the stormwater sewer for the City of Fayetteville because as we grow and we expand the impervious surfaces, the problem of flash flooding is only going to be amplified.
 As in the adage, the best time to plant a tree was 50 years ago. The next best time is now. It goes the same for our stormwater runoff. We need a way to address it that's fair and equitable, and this is a good approach as far as I can surmise. So thank you for taking this on. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 My name is James McCarty. I'm not a resident of the City of Fayetteville, but I'm here representing Beaver Water District. We would like to support this measure as well. As most of you know, our city's drinking water supply is Beaver Lake and some of the storm water from the city flows into Beaver Lake.
 It's important that we continue to protect that resource for our drinking water and we believe that measures such as this one are going to be absolutely pivotal in addressing the flooding and stormwater issues that we see in a lot of the cities that drain to Beaver Lake. And so to continue to preserve that resource for today and future generations.
 beaver water districts just wants to let you know how much we support this measure all the way back since 2018 we've been involved and we want to see this go forward and be successful thank you thank you james who else would like to address this who do you have on the same thing no one's on zoom mayor okay i'll bring it back to the council um this is a resolution um so what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take
 if there is no discussion I move we pass the resolution second have motion second to pass resolution sir did you have some final comments okay all right Jonathan please call her up Verna yes lunch yes Burke yes Pittsburgh yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Whitaker yes thank you all very much
 All right, number two, an ordinance to amend 166.04 Parkland Dedication of the Unified Development Code to modify the applicability section for parkland dedication requirements. Kip? Whereas in 2021, the City Council passed a sweeping amendment of the Unified Development Code intended to revamp drainage and development standards with the secondary object of incentivizing infill.
 and whereas in the intervening period since 2021 staff audited the outcomes of these changes and has identified several areas that would benefit from revision and clarification and whereas an immediate concern is potential and actual loss of parkland dedication fees in lieu of in lieu of land on projects not requiring additional site plan review because they are not creating more than 10 000 square feet of new impervious surface
 now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 166 oh 4b 4l of the Unified Development Code regarding parkland dedication in an actual replacement section 166 oh 4l as shown in exhibit a attached to this ordinance okay Jonathan thank you mayor
 To go a little bit further into the background on this item, our parkland dedication ordinance has its roots about half a century ago. In 1981, City Council had the foresight to adopt a parkland dedication standard where residential developments being proposed within the city would be required to dedicate a certain amount of parkland to offset their impacts on our park system.
 This was reaffirmed subsequently in 1998 when the council adopted the current version of our development code or the current form of our development code, the unified development code. And with that was the allowance to either dedicate fees in lieu or dedicate parkland.
 Moving forward, as Mr. Williams noted, in 2021, a sweeping amendment was passed modifying the Unified Development Code to take a more performance-based approach to development standards and focus more on drainage rather than what exactly was going on inside of a
 Up to that point, our development code was split basically into standards applied to single and two-family homes, which was next to nothing, and everything else, which was subject to everything. There was not a lot of nuance, not a lot of fine grain, and we got exactly what you would expect as a result of that. There were a large number of single and two-family homes and a large number of large commercial and multifamily buildings. Okay.
 As a part of this, projects that were creating less than 10,000 square feet of imperviousness were no longer required to go through certain classes of project approval. If you think about terms that you sometimes hear on appeal like a site improvement plan, a large scale development, a large site improvement plan. However, parkland dedication is tied to those project classes. If they were not going through those project classes, they were not being reviewed for parkland dedication.
 So with that in mind, staff identified in the resulting period in 2020, or recently last year, we began evaluating our development code, or excuse me, the changes to our development code and auditing what resulted, if the outcomes were what we expected, and recognized that these several series of projects were not subject to our parkland fees with an estimated loss of potentially $20,000 in that time of parkland fees.
 But what was much more looming was the potentially quarter million dollars in parkland dedication fees that would be foregone if this, for lack of a better word, loophole was not closed promptly.
 Accordingly, while staff is still looking at the wider degree of potential changes we need to make as we evaluate what we did in 2021 or what was changed in 2021, it was important to move this piece forward independently and urgently. And that's why it's before council tonight.
 We brought that to you all recommending that in effect that we decouple the language in our ordinance that specifies that parkland dedication is tied to project types and instead connecting it to residential development more generally so that staff would have the ability to interpret project classes much more broadly rather than be tied to certain classes that are or are not subject to our parkland fees.
 Additionally, you may have noticed a couple of other tweaks in there. When we recently changed the name of our parks department to Parks and Natural Resources and Cultural Affairs, that also changed the name of some of the committees and that was captured there as well.
 When we took this to the Planning Commission recently, they accepted or appreciated the urgency and forwarded the ordinance to City Council unanimously. Staff is also recommending in favor of it. Mayor, I'm here as the staff representative for this item, but Allison Jumper, the Director of Parks, Natural Resources and Cultural Affairs is also here.
 And also as a preview for the council, some of the other items that we are looking at, since I know some of these have filtered up to you as concerns or projects, is whether that 10,000 square foot threshold is an appropriate cutoff when we're determining what projects are considered where, and potentially thinking about it in other terms that would allow certain classes of projects to go towards
 public hearings based more on their intensity rather than just a pure consideration of how much impervious is or is not being added to the site. So our planning commission opted to table that portion of that request at their last, at their meeting last Monday for more evaluation and they'll be going to their long range subcommittee this Thursday and then presumably back up and ultimately to you all. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has, thank you.
 Okay, did you say that Allison might want to weigh in on? I think she's available for questions. Okay. If there's something that's beyond my wheelhouse. Okay. Well, I'm going to keep you in your wheelhouse. Do we have any questions for Jonathan on this? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak.
 there's three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber like to speak on this topic
 So having vans in yes, sir, okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading what I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading We have a motion second to go the second three, please call the rob Berna yes Yes Yes, yes Yes
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to amend section 16604B4L, parkland dedication of the unified development code, to modify the applicability section for parkland dedication requirements. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. So motion second to go to the third and final reading.
 Verna yes bunch yes Yes Earthsburg yes Stafford yes Jones yeah more yes Yes, and your honor some in section 166 o 4 B for L Parkland dedication of the unified development code to modify the applicability section for parkland dedication requirements any file comments from council good
 John he's called roll burn up yes punch yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yeah more yes Whitaker yes thank you all number three an ordinance to approve vacation 24-07 property located east of
 1074 East Sain Street Ward 3 to vacate a .076 acre portion of drainage easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of drainage easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a drainage easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner-developer's expense. John? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to northeast Fayetteville, specifically just east of the northern interchange of the Fulbright Expressway and North College Avenue. Although it does not show up on the aerial image here, there is indeed a brand new public street that bisects this property before angling northward and connecting to Joyce after crossing Mud Creek.
 The property in question was rezoned to a PZD in 2020. This was followed by a large scale development approval in 2022 by the Planning Commission. And most recently heard by the city council in February of 2023 for some vacation of various fragments of relic right away and easements that were identified on the property after the street project in advance of the projects, the multifamily projects development.
 Unfortunately, during development review, some additional easements were identified as a part of this request.
 There we go. These were identified running north and south of the new street and previously sat along a swale that helped drain the area to the south towards Mud Creek. As a part of the development project, which you can see in the northern of these two images, and you can actually see in the aerial where the grading work has been done, this drainage has been formalized and incorporated into the project with a need to dedicate easements.
 A new location to represent where that new infrastructure will be going, leaving these former drainage easements which you see in yellow highlight again as additional remnants. Accordingly, staff is recommending these easements be vacated. There's no existing remaining infrastructure in them. So our only condition of approval is not franchise specific, but if anything is identified, removing it or relocating it will be at the developer's expense.
 And as far as it goes to the dedication of that additional easement, that is a requirement of the development review process. The project's easement plot is currently under review. That's the document before building permits, which must be approved by staff and recorded with the county prior to a building permit being able to be pulled. And those drainage easements I can confirm are on there. And with that, I'm available to take questions. And Mayor, I believe Cody Sexton is available online as the applicant for this item.
 thank you would you have to like speak before the council you have 10 minutes he's coming okay let's see boom so go ahead hello can you hear me yes uh this is cody sexton with balloon associates uh representing the owner and developer uh trails on the creek apartments um as john has then said these uh drainage easements were merely leftover relics
 from several decades previously. The drainage channels that previously were within these drainage easements already do not exist today. Today we have a brand-new public
 box culvert system that runs parallel to and a few feet off of the location of these original easements and That new public system is being dedicated with the new easement plaque for the development going forward in the future so these were merely obsolete leftover pieces and everything has already been upgraded moving towards the future and and
 Therefore, we would certainly appreciate to have the council agree to vacate these particular items. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff? Anybody good? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, those participating by name.
 in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those that are participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this topic send the chamber have anybody on zoom sue no sir okay i'm going to bring it back to the city council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading i would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading we have motion second to go to the second group jonathan please call the role bernard yes
 Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. And your ordinance approved BAC 24-07 for properly located east of 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a 0.076 acre portion of a drainage easement.
 Okay, I move that we spend the rules and go to third and final reading Motion second to go to third and final reading Jonathan. Please call Verna yes bunch. Yes, Eric. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford yes Jones. Yeah more yes Whitaker. Yes, I
 Your next approved the AC 24-07 for property located east of 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3 to vacate a .076 acre portion of drainage easement any final comments from the council Jonathan, please call the roll Verna, yes lunch. Yes, Eric. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford. Yes Jones
 yes more yes Whitaker yes thank you all let's go number four an ordinance resolved the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-15 for approximately 1.94 acres located at 4600 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA residential agricultural to RSF4 residents single-family four units per
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map and the legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA to RSF4
 And section two, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, reflects the zoning change provided in section one. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request is in South East Fayetteville, Ward 1, from the intersection of the city of Fayetteville and the process road. This request includes just under two acres on both sides of the road. So, if you see any questions, please feel free to ask them.
 Thank you, Mr. Williams. This property is in southeast Fayetteville Ward 1. It's about two miles east of the intersection of Crossover and Huntsville Road on the north side of Huntsville. It is just below or just under two acres of land on the north side of Huntsville and currently developed with a single-family home and some associated outbuildings. The request is to rezone the property from its existing RA, Residential Agricultural designation, to RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre.
 In beginning their evaluation with a question of land use compatibility, staff does find it to be compatible. This portion of the city, it is largely characterized by low density residential development. With the RSF4 zoning district's allowance for larger lots and larger street widths, it is a consistent match with the development pattern in the area.
 From a long range standpoint, this further validates it. The property does have a low infill score, which is perhaps unsurprising, given it's more towards the periphery of the city. Staff's concerned that any additional intensity or density that'd be allowed on the property could begin having a negative effect.
 on the congestion issues that many of you all are familiar with on Huntsville Road. In our eyes, the incremental increase from RA to RS support allows it to have a moderate amount of allowance for additional housing without being too much.
 When considering issues, one of the items that came up amongst the planning commissioners was a question of curb cuts or driveways. As I noted, Highway 16 is known for having a fair amount of congestion and there's a question of, although a development question, is a question about if the property could be developed with multiple single family homes with multiple driveways and what kind of dangerous traffic impacts that could have.
 As a reminder, the council, or as a primer, if you're not familiar with it, we do have access management standards in the city and on streets like Huntsville Road that are higher classification because of their volume of traffic. We do require single family homes to have shared curb cuts between properties. And we have the most authority to require that before properties are subdivided. So this lot in particular is a single lot today. If it were to be proposed for subdivision, we can hold the property or future development to those requirements.
 Otherwise, as we're noting the tree preservation requirements for this property will remain completely neutral. The RA and RSF4 zoning districts both have identical standards of 25% across the board.
 With those findings in mind, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council, also recommending approval by a unanimous vote of nine to zero. Comment was fairly limited, noting that they felt the request was compatible as well. And to date, either before, at, or since the Planning Commission, we've not received any public comment on this item. And I'm ready or available for any questions. And Mayor, I believe the applicant, John Cloyde, is online and available.
 would you have kind of like speak for the council you have 10 minutes uh thank you mayor and council for considering this request i am available to offer or to offer answer any questions or anything if you guys have them uh thank you okay does council have any questions for the applicant or the staff no no okay well let's take some public comment
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom after that um do you have do you have yeah andre yeah okay who would like to address this that's in the chamber susan you have anybody on zoom no sir okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 Married make a motion to spin rules go to say read Second have motion second to go to the second read Jonathan. Would you please call Rob? Berna yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes Jones yes more yes Whitaker yes, yes
 In order to rezone the property, it is cried and rezoning petition RZN 2024-15 for approximately 1.94 acres located at 4600 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA, residential agricultural, to RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. Bob. Mary, I make a motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I make a motion to second and go to third and final reading. Jonathan, would you please call the roll?
 Verna yes punch yes third yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 2024-15 for approximately 1.94 acres located at 4600 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre. Sir? I'm sorry. Folks? No, okay. Just...
 Any final comments from the council? All right. Jonathan, would you please call the roll? Berna? Yes. Munch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay.
 To rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 24-16 for approximately 1.95 acres located at 2640 North O'Wire Road in Ward 3. C.P.Z.D. Commercial Plan Zoning District P1 Institution Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification proposition on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from CPCD Commercial Plan Zoning District to P1 Institutional. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Mayor Weill. Thank you, Mayor.
 This request takes us to Northeast Fayetteville and Ward 3. We're about one lot immediately northeast of the intersection of Old Wire Road and Township. Perhaps orienting you a little bit more closely, we're one lot west of Gully Park as you proceed along Old Wire Road. The property is currently developed with a single-family home that was converted into a daycare about two decades ago with the overall property including just under two acres of land.
 The request is to rezone it from a PZD which was approved in 2007 to P1 institutional.
 When looking at this request from a land use compatibility lens, staff does find it to be compatible. The use is allowed in the P1 zoning district like schools, religious institutions, other activities that can be complementary of neighborhoods do appear in staff's estimation to serve a positive purpose in this area that is largely residential in nature without many services to serve the residents.
 without having to get into their vehicles or otherwise travel elsewhere. Similarly, a number of institutional uses can be found in the immediate area. There's a church immediately to the east of the property. There's several others along Old Wire Road and there's also a business immediately to the southwest, a veterinary clinic that's been located there for some time at the northeast corner of Old Wire and Township.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, looking at the property's Future Land Use Map designation as a residential neighborhood area may initially suggest that P1 is not appropriate at this
 But taking a deeper dive into that Future Land Use Map designation recognizes that there is an acknowledgement that in residential areas, especially ones along major corridors, it's appropriate to incorporate services and other activities that can be beneficial to residential areas. Staff again finds those allowed in the P1 zoning district to serve exactly that function.
 Among the issues when considering this request were the initial PZD requirements. This came up at agenda session in particular. This PZD was extremely prescriptive. It was one of the earliest ones passed in Fayetteville. It functioned effectively like a conditional use permit. It limited the number of children that could be attended at the location. It limited the number of employees. It limited the square footage allowance of the building on the property.
 and it even went so far as to say any additional improvements to the property would require submittal as a large-scale development regardless of whether it's a small outbuilding in addition to the existing building which is a very outsized requirement and appears to be a reflection of maybe some of the the resident concerns at the time which uh given that there's not been uh any public comment other than positive public comment at the time i think there's general acceptance that this is a use that is positively contributing to this portion of Fayetteville
 Of note here, and an item that came up at agenda session in particular was a question of building height. With the newly adopted P1 zone district, there is an allowance for six stories. The PZD allowed a 45 foot height limit, which comes out to about four stories.
 It is worth noting something that I failed to note at agenda session is that the P1's new standards for height requires stepping back from a property for every additional story over two stories. And when looking at that on this particular property, given both its shape and the existing setbacks, it is almost physically impossible to achieve that six stories with acknowledgement that you have to go back approximately 12 feet for every additional story into the property.
 Hopefully that allays the concern that may have existed. Staff does not feel that the property could be overdeveloped at the P1 zoning district standards between that height limitation and any of our other development requirements for parking, landscaping, or stormwater.
 Other than that, tree preservation, similar to the last time, it's identical under PZDs, which have a 25% requirement, and the P1 zoning district, which is also 25%. And as I alluded to a moment ago, we've received public comment on this item, and it has been in favor, finding that this is a positively contributing item.
 use of the property today and staff is recommending approval with the Planning Commission having forwarded it unanimously as well, citing again that they felt it was a compatible request. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the Council has and Mayor Melanie Lavery is here in person as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Thank you, council members. I appreciate you all hearing me today. I just have a few words. My name is Melanie Lavery. I'm the owner of the property and the businesses on site. I wanted to share a little bit of history about it. I'll be quick. The history of 2460 North Old Wire Road, as we just heard, we've been serving the community as a daycare for over 15 years. A woman named Angie had a vision and converted a large residential home on site to a daycare. It was known as the Sunshine House back in 2008. It was very loved back then, and she served the community for nine years.
 When Angie was ready to move on from her role, I had the opportunity to take it over and after a short closure in the daycare, we reopened as Parkside Play School in 2018. I purchased the property a year after that. I
 We've worked hard over the last few years and we've had a lot of help and support from our community. We're proud to say that now our women in veteran owned schools serve over 90 families and we employ close to 30 community members. We really love this property. We enjoy the shade and the beauty that's provided by the mature trees on the property. And we use that natural beauty to teach the children not only about nature but how to care for the environment. And also our farm and garden program on site teaches them where their food comes from.
 We've done our best to be good stewards of this property and we hope to continue to do that. We'd like to continue serving the community this way for many years, but we do need your help. In our current zoning, as has been said, for any development, no matter how small it is, we're required to go through large-scale development, which has proven to be not attainable for us, financially or logistically.
 By approving our request to rezone to P1 institutional, you're going to allow us to preserve the property's usage and also you would allow us to increase the safety and sustainability of our programs. Post-rezone, we intend to build a school-wide tornado shelter and a structure with bathrooms for our current elementary program. In closing, we really love our Claypool community and we appreciate your support. Thanks for your time. I'm available for any questions.
 Thank you. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff? Okay, let's take some public input then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the assembly will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber?
 What do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. OK, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jonathan, would you please call the roll? Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Jones?
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-16 for approximately 1.95 acres located at 2640 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3 from CPCD Commercial Land Zoning District to P1 Institutional. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. So I'll need you to please call the roll.
 Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones?
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-16 for approximately 1.95 acres located at 2640 North O'Wire Road in Ward 3 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to P1 Institutional.
 any final yes i just wanted to tell the applicant this is unrelated to the rezoning um except for i learned something about your property today so i appreciate it i've passed by it so often but i appreciate the service you offer to our community especially being a small business employer in our community that's incredibly important so thank you for sharing that new information because i was not aware of that thank you anything else everybody good all right jonathan please call
 Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. All right, thank you all. Let's go on to number six.
 An ordinance rezoned the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-17 for approximately .90 acres located 512 North Mission Boulevard, Ward 1, Morris F4, residential single family 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family four units per acre, to NSG, neighborhood services general.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are excited by a man's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1.
 Thank you. This property is in Ward 1. It's located in what you may call the near eastern part of the city, just towards the eastern extents of the Washington Willow Historic District. More specifically, it's located at the northeast corner of Mission Boulevard and Maple Street. It includes about nine-tenths of an acre and is currently developed with a single family home and a couple associated accessory structures.
 The request is to rezone it from its current RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre zoning designation to NSG, neighborhood services general.
 Staff does find this request to be compatible in looking at the property, the surrounding area. We feel that this request is consistent with what has historically occurred in the area and in fact what is currently occurring in the area. Not only is it located at a not insignificant intersection of Mission Boulevard and Maple Street, a state highway and a through street in this portion of the city.
 But as you can see in the red dots here, there are a number of uses in the area where staff is identified are either currently non-residential uses or attached residential uses, activities that aren't necessarily single family in nature as may be thought of when people think of this portion of Fayetteville. With the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District allowing smaller and medium scale non-residential uses and attached residential uses.
 We, in our estimation, this is a compatible and complementary use. And looking at it from a long-range planning standpoint, we found similar findings. This is a residential neighborhood area, which...
 in areas where there are elements that contribute positively to infill, such as access to your standard infrastructure, water, sewer, fire response, and in addition to amenities like grocery stores and soon to be trail, it is appropriate place for additional density, but the potential for additional housing. And additionally, as I noted, it is at a not insignificant corner of the city where our residential neighborhood area envisions
 the potential for non-residential uses to serve the surrounding area. Considering issues or other items for the request, the Council is always interested in hearing about tree preservation. With this request, it would take the 25% tree preservation requirement of RSF4, which is the highest in the City, to 20% under NSG.
 Also, we have received a fair amount of public comments on this request. This has been generally in opposition. A lot of that has centered around the existing structure on the property and the potential to preserve it. It is worth noting that it is not on the National Register, but it is certainly among our older houses in Fayetteville and also well maintained. There's also been concerns about the potential for traffic or tree removal on the site.
 When considering all these factors, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it by a split vote of 8 to 1 recommending in favor. The majority of their conversation revolved around the historic structure on the property. The applicants can speak more to that, but they shared at that meeting that it is their intent to preserve it and incorporate it into any development plans for the site.
 Additionally, there were questions about the anticipated trail connection for the Mission Trail. Ultimately, or currently, that's planned to be on the west side of the street so it would not be running along this property's frontage. And with that, I'm available for any questions the Council has. Mayor Ali Quinlan-Thurmond is here as the applicant for the item. Mayor Weill- Thank you. Mayor Weill- I'd like to speak for the Council. We have 10 minutes.
 Hello Council, thank you for having me. As Mr. Kurth referenced, much of the comments that we've had about this is concern over the existing home. Full reassurance is it's a very nice house and it was very expensive. I promise we won't tear it down. We're currently repainting the inside. We're refinishing the hardwood floors. It's in really good shape.
 Our office right now is in an old house on College Avenue that was likely a teardown. We purchased it in 2020, fully renovated that, replaced all the systems. We've done a number of old houses in the neighborhood. The Historic Commission gave us an award for three of those just a few weeks ago. And so the existing home will be preserved. We're making no changes that would prevent it from being immediately a home again. There's no major renovations planned for the house. It's in, again, really nice shape. And we as an office have worked really well in an old house
 We use the bedrooms as offices, use the dining room as a conference room. And so we'll be preserving the home as it is. The move for us puts us closer into the neighborhood where more than half of our staff works, lives within the historic district and can walk to this home. And so we don't expect to generate more traffic than a home itself would.
 And we also are really looking forward to the expansion in storage space. There are four garage bays on the site. We do quite a bit of renovation and salvage of old light fixtures and marble slabs, and there's always something floating around. So the storage will be really helpful for our locally owned small business. So we're looking forward to this. If the house was one room smaller, we would be able to do this as a conditional use permit. But the conditional use permit for limited business limits us to a 3,500 square foot gross space.
 floor area building and because this is 3 700 square feet we can't put a business into it without a rezoning and this is the least intensive zoning that will allow us to put a professional architecture office into this old house so if you have any other questions i'm here to answer them but generally we hope that this will be a relatively low impact change for the neighbors thank you thank you any questions any questions
 come back up just a quick question you know we have heard lots of comment on this the part of the lot that's empty is there any designs for a new building on that we
 We have no plans to infill that at this point. Long term, I would love to be able to build a custom house for myself on it, but also construction costs are very high right now. I own a number of lots in South Fayetteville that would be much higher on the list for construction, so we're not currently planning on doing anything with that lot, and I don't know that any of the neighbors would notice any changes. Yes.
 And no plan to clear cut the lot? There's one dead tree in the Circle Drive that's a dead maple, but that prop, I think maybe came out today, but that's our only tree that we're planning to remove. Okay, thank you. There's a little honeysuckle that needs to, Mark did a really nice job removing the honeysuckle. It has come back a little bit, so we've got some honeysuckle we need to remove along the tree lines. But otherwise, no plans changes to the site at all. Thank you. Thanks. Anything else? Anything for the staff?
 Jonathan, can you pull up the map real quick again of the neighborhood with the other existing businesses and how everything's zoned? And I don't know if it looked like Council Member Jones may have tried to weigh in. I didn't mean to interrupt him. I keep seeing his name pop up on the screen, but I haven't. No, no.
 Mayor Jordan, I'm having a little bit of technical difficulty, so please excuse me. I'm working on it now. That's okay, DeAndre. I just said your name pops up a time or two, so I didn't know if you wanted to.
 speaker no okay okay thank you uh-huh you're welcome bob go home yeah so we have industrial right across the street and then and then beyond that in the rs4 areas we have one two three four five six uh seven eight nine or well i guess that one's an industrial uh like eight or so in the residential areas two of existing businesses uh that are operating already right
 Yes, these dots or locations indicate areas that are either non-residential, so businesses like the gift shop further north on Mission Boulevard, or attached residential like duplexes also further north along Mission Boulevard. Yeah, those haven't really caused a problem. Even the industrialized zone property hasn't caused any problem for the neighborhood. Yeah.
 No, we get complaints about that. Oh, you do? Yeah, we do. Mostly lighting and noise and track out, things of that nature. But all the uses that that property is currently under are not things that would be allowed in the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District. That's a construction lay down yard for a local housing builder. Okay, gotcha. Thank you. Good, Bob? I'll just make some comments. So we have...
 received or at least I have some public comment in opposition, but a lot of it seems to be what we hear a lot, which is fair based and also that I'm afraid that they're going to tear down the trees or tear down the house.
 I understand that pain, but it's usually not something I feel I can take under consideration. I don't own my view. None of us do. We don't own our neighbor's trees. We don't own our neighbor's house. And so I hear you and I feel you, but it's not something that...
 that I feel that we can, you know, it's a legitimate thing that I can vote on. It's my, if you own the property, it's your property. If you want to save the trees next door to you, buy the property and you can save them. And I believe that this, I don't think they're going to tear down any trees here other than maybe a dead one and help us get rid of some invasive hudgy suckle from my understanding. And knowing this person, I...
 I feel that house will be completely safe and no one's going to tear down that house. So I think the fares are unwarranted as well. That's it. Okay. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. You know, here's the thing. Once we rezone it, we're not assured of continued ownership of that property. So if it's a new rezoning designation and the property owner sells it, then somebody else can come in there and actually rezone
 do exactly what they want to do under that and zoning entitlement. So I'm looking at neighborhood services general and they could put three and four family dwellings in there. You know there's a lot of other things that it expands to. But the property owner, the current one that just came up here and talked to us, she could do other things that would give us some assurances that these items would not be implemented if the property ownership changes.
 So I always err on the side of the highest use that could be within that zoning. Because we've seen it before. We've seen properties change hands. Not that she's going to plan on selling it. I believe her for what she wants to do with the property. But what happens in five or ten years? That intersection is actually really quite...
 awkward right now and and I think there's and the road needs to be repaved and hopefully they're going to do some of that when they put the bike trail in but I'm not going to be supporting this because I I'm concerned about future uses with this new rezoning designation okay well would you like for me to take some public comment now
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and they'll participate in my zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this topic that's in the chat what do you have on zoom nobody mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first
 so what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take oh mayor i think uh maybe we could leave it on the first reading if that's okay with everybody is it okay or what i mean i prefer to make a motion that would you like to do a site visit or is there i just wanted to give the public a little more time to maybe have some input and weigh in
 and just see if we get any other public comment other than you know building preservation or tree preservation see if we have some usage concerns um i i suppose i won't object to to your request if i could ask uh theresa what's uh
 some ideas you might have that would help eliminate your concerns is there anywhere around maybe Jonathan's the one to ask is there any way around the request like bill of assurances or I think mr. Williams would advise you that as a city we cannot require a bill of assurance that's something only a property owner can offer that's correct so what do you want to do you want to leave it on the first reading what what what
 I would, Mr. Mayor, comment that the owner has demonstrated a propensity to preserve older homes
 has been recognized for that, understands the tax incentives available through the state and federal government for that. For what she paid for this property, I too fully doubt that she would have any interest in demolishing a newly purchased structure. I do want to be sensitive to other council members and we have a track record of always honoring a request
 to leave things on the first reading and so I don't oppose that. I just wanted to mention that as far as the safety of the structure, I do believe the applicant's words on that. Thank you. Councilmember Whitaker, you covered exactly what I was going to say so and I guess I will just add since I've got my microphone on.
 I do appreciate Council Member Turk. I mean, when we do look at rezones, yes, I listen to the current applicant, but I am thinking about all those possible uses. And, you know, I'm probably going to sound like a broken record, but I really do hope that we'll be looking at code in the future. I think there are a lot of opportunities for, you know, conservation and other, you know, this midsize. You know, we just heard they missed the CEP by, I think, 200 square feet.
 that they could, or their other avenue. But for me, in this location, I at least wanted to say, you know, I wish Fayetteville, in so many ways, right, could stay like it's always been. But I think with the infrastructure that we're putting in there with the trail, I feel like that's probably quite an adequate option
 rezoned request for that area, given kind of what's happening in that area. But I also want to defer to what was stated, too, about, you know, we haven't heard anybody weighing in on the possible uses of the property under that. So, you know, I feel comfortable with us being able to leave it. But right now, I don't feel any discomfort with what that could be. Well, let's just leave it right where it is then. And let's go on to number seven.
 All right. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 2024-18 for approximately 2.9 acres located southwest of West Treadwell Street and South Hill Avenue in Ward 2. From RM 40 residential multifamily, 40 units per acre to MSC Main Street Center, subject to a bill of assurance. Kit. Okay.
 To be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to MSC Main Street Center, subject to a bill of assurance.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 2. It's just west of downtown. Although encompassing less than three acres, it does include a full block bordered on the west by Duncan Avenue, to east by Hill Avenue, and to the north and south Treadwell and Putnam Streets, respectively.
 It is currently developed with a variety of housing types, ranging from single-family homes up through multi-family dwellings, totaling about 50 units altogether and with a variety of ages as well. The request is to rezone the site from RMF 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre to MSC, Maid Street Center, subject to a bill of assurance.
 The bill of assurance proposes to limit the proposed main street center zoning district to remove use units 17, 34, and 45. In layman's terms, what those mean are use unit 17 is our transportation trades category, which includes things like mechanics services.
 Use unit 34 includes liquor stores and use unit 45, small scale production, includes uses like microbreweries and other small manufacturing allowances that could be appropriate outside of an industrial park and possibly closer to a downtown area.
 Staff considered many, many issues when reviewing this request, as we do with all rezonings. But this one we went a little bit more in depth into one particular piece which I'll touch on shortly. But beginning from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find the applicant's request to be compatible.
 This portion of the city already enjoys a very high degree of zoning entitlements. This portion of Fayetteville was rezoned to allow multifamily development as far back as the 1970s, and much of that has stayed the same, which you can see in orange on the map.
 with densities up to 40 units per acre. To the north, more recently, and to the east, portions of the city have been rezoned to DG, Downtown General, which allows higher densities in addition to non-residential uses. Staff finds allowing the Main Street Center Zoning District with its similar allowance for mixed-year uses, residential and non-residential, to be appropriate at the location.
 When considering this from a long range planning standpoint, staff finds the Main Street Center Zoning District to be very complimentary of the Future Land Use Map designation as a city neighborhood area. As you can see, the language encourages the widest spectrum of uses and encourages density in all housing types from single family to multifamily.
 While there is indeed a wide range of housing types today, single family to multi-family, the Main Street Center Zoning District also allows this. In addition, it allows commercial uses, non-residential uses like offices, restaurants, and retail.
 uh when evaluating the request in the context of our our city plan 2040 goals staff found this proposal to be possibly consistent with with many of them first and foremost that the property will make appropriate infill or that it is a complimenting the goal to make appropriate infill a priority i'll touch on that a little bit more later also with the main street center zoning district and its potential for higher amounts of housing this can discourage growth on the edges of the city
 Main Street Center also because of its mixed-use nature affords the opportunity to develop the area in a way that can complement the surrounding uses with the provision of services.
 Additionally, this property is adjacent to transit services. It's in an area of a well-connected street grid, which is also supportive of the potential for higher densities and intensities. However, goal six, our attainable housing or creating opportunities that should be attainable housing, is a little bit more mixed in staff's estimation.
 and before jumping into that i didn't want to touch on the infill score which did merit its own slide perhaps unsurprisingly given this very centrally located property in fayetteville there are many elements that contribute this being a priority for infill development not only does it
 Include the typical infrastructure or access to infrastructure you'd anticipate seeing water sewer fire response times It's also in close approximation to Fayetteville High School the University of Arkansas as main campus as well as their arts district in addition the transit services that I referenced in the grocery store just to the south and
 Taking a look from the growth concept map standpoint as well, this property is situated between several tier centers, the university's main campus, but also our downtown and the tier center that's located at MLK and South School are both approximately half a mile away.
 Circling back to the question of housing, this is certainly at the forefront of staff's mind when considering this request. As I noted, there's about 50 units in the city block. It's a variety of different housing types, single all the way through multifamily housing. There are a variety of ages, which has lent itself to a variety of different price points. There are assertions that may not otherwise be accommodated elsewhere in the city. Excuse me.
 It is worth noting when staff was evaluating the age of the buildings that none of them are on a federal or state historic district register. Important consideration and one that the council may recall from the housing report that was shared with you all.
 late last year is that there is a balance that must be struck between the creation of new housing supply and our existing housing supply. It is very difficult to build affordable housing. Typically most cities experience affordable housing through what's called a process of filtration where housing starts as new, has all the amenities you'd expect for housing at that time and as markets change and amenities change the older housing tends to become more and more affordable as it moves through.
 As a result, it is certainly a concern if this property were to be developed and this housing were to be demolished or removed.
 In a similar vein, it is worth noting that this property, as I noted earlier, does have very high entitlements today. The existing underlying RMF 40 zoning district allows quite a bit more housing than is currently within these parcels. Again, there are about 50 units today. Under the RMF 40 zoning district, it's possible to build over 100 units.
 Some other issues I wanted to touch on. We did have a tour this week at the council's request. There were some items I wanted to circle back with to the council members who were not able to attend or for the items that I was not able to answer, starting with adjacent developments.
 When we reached the northern end of the block, there were several questions specifically about what unit counts and what bed counts and what parking accounts those adjacent properties were developed with. Taking the one in the upper left-hand corner, the Cardinal, that project was built with 480 beds. It was built with about 81.5% of the one per bedroom parking requirement, which is our residential parking requirement for multifamily.
 For those on the tour, you heard me go in depth about that. Our parking standards, the flat rate is one per bedroom and multifamily, but you can take administrative allowances to reduce that. If you're near transit, you can reduce by 15%. If you're near, or you can also replace standard parking spaces at up to 10% with bicycle racks and up to a further 10% with motorcycle and scooter spaces. So that project did not avail themselves of those full administrative reductions, but did use some of them.
 Moving clockwise or to the southeast of that to the right is the Atmosphere Project. It was larger in bed count, had 640 beds.
 built out to fewer parking spaces than required for that. I'm sorry, I thought I had that number incorporated in there, but I believe it was about a 70% number. I can confirm that here shortly though, for you all. So the long and short of it is that neither project was built to the full requirement of the parking standards. I'm doing quick math. It looks like it was about 80% for the atmosphere project as well.
 As for the second item, on the Turo is noted that there is a lack or deficiency in sidewalk infrastructure in particular in the area. When the council asked about that, my feedback is always that's a development question and this is ultimately a rezoning question, but it is a baseline requirement of our development code that properties that are developed are required to upgrade their, at a minimum, their street frontage to our master street plan standards, which do require sidewalks, green space, street trees.
 And also circling back to the question of entitlements, there was quite a bit of dialogue about what can be done today. The existing RMF40 zoning district with the acreage on the property allows 116 units. If that was extrapolated out to our allowance for up to four unrelated individuals to live in each one of those units, that would allow up to 464 beds on this site.
 circling back to public comment there has been a fair bit of concern expressed about this item leading up to the Planning Commission at the Planning Commission and since while there have been or has been at least one statement of support the general sentiment has been opposition as I've referenced several times in this presentation there is a concern about displacement if this housing on this property is to be removed today it may compromise okay Jonathan they'll have to give you more time
 How much more time do you have? How much did you ask? Thirty seconds please. How much do you need? Thirty seconds please, Mayor. Thirty seconds. Yes. Two minutes. It seems to be going right. I'll give you a minute. Thank you. That's very generous. The concern is very much about displacement on the property and that any housing that may replace it, as I was referencing before, will represent more modern housing, more modern amenities and may not be at the price point of what's existing there today.
 Ultimately, on the balance of issues, staff is recommending in favor of this request, subject to its bill of assurance. The planning commission afforded the city council by a vote of 8 to 1. Many of the items that they focused their recommendation on were the potential that it could be developed to a much greater level.
 much more intense level, perhaps is a better way to put it than it is today. Also the comfort that the bill of assurance offered and that this property is very near to both the university campus and transit. There was dissent or concern expressed similarly to what I noted about loss of housing and the potential displacement that could be associated with that.
 With that I'm happy to take the council's question. I appreciate the additional time and mayor There's a few several people from the developer the applicants team today But I believe Chris Baraboo is the lead speaker and they do know they have ten minutes Okay, the applicants get ten minutes. However, you want to splice it up split it up Good evening council My name is Will Kjellstrom and I'm here on behalf of subtext with me is
 Mitch Cortay, representative from Subtex, and Chris Barabo, who will be speaking for Motus, and they're going to provide some more information after me. So as Jonathan said, we're looking to rezone 2.9 acres to MSC. The property is currently zoned RMF 40, so like Jonathan said, you can develop it right now today with up to 116 units and up to five stories as well. We're asking for Main Street Center.
 The reason that we're asking for Main Street Center as opposed to downtown general like some of the properties around it have been zoned is so that we can have the flexibility to park it to code. The main difference between the two of those zonings is that Main Street Center allows for up to seven stories with some setbacks.
 That seven stories is going to allow us the flexibility to have more parking and what that means when we say park it to code is like Jonathan described. We will be using the administrative provisions that are already in the code, but we will not be coming back asking for variances or CUPs for offsite parking lots or anything like that. And you're going to see roughly what that's going to look like when Chris and Mitch get up to talk.
 So, what is on site right now on this block is the Summit Terrace Apartments, a six-unit, multi-unit building. I believe there's one older house that's maybe been used or maybe been turned into two units. And then there's another old home on the property. Summit Terrace, of the 53 units that are already on the property 
 Summit Terrace is the vast bulk of those. And of those units, most of those students or most of the residents of Summit Terrace are in fact students of the university. So the point that I'm getting at is that
 This block is largely populated with student housing already. And I think the word is out that this development is going to be a student housing development. So the point there would be that we are replacing what is already there for the most part with more of that, which I think we're all in agreement that the city needs.
 There has been some talk and speculation over what happens if this is not rezoned, if this gets turned down tonight. The owner of Summit Terrace sent a letter to Jonathan. I admit she got the email address wrong or perhaps it wasn't passed out to y'all, but I do believe it got sent to Councilmember Berna.
 But the owner of Summit Terrace is motivated to sell this. It's owned by her siblings. They inherited it from her father, who owned it for several years. And the siblings are no longer in Fayetteville. They can't handle the maintenance. And on top of that, the building is getting too costly to maintain. It's at the end of its lifespan. It's about 50 years old. They don't live here anymore. They're trying to get rid of it. So point being, the block is for sale.
 It's very close to the University and it's a good site for building. Someone is going to buy it and develop it at 40 units per acre as it's entitled today, whether it's us or not. And so what we're hoping to achieve by asking for a rezone to higher density and higher entitlements is to reward the city with better design, more housing and more parking.
 Mitch Cortay with Subtext and Chris Barabo with MODIS, the architect, are going to give a little bit more information on the table. Okay, you all got about six minutes left. All right. Thanks, Will. Jonathan, do you have our presentation? Would you mind pulling that up real quick?
 And I'll breeze through this because Chris has the fun stuff. So I want to make sure you guys get to take a look at that. Just a little background on Subtech. So we're a real estate company based in St. Louis, right up the road here. And we are excited to be working with Chris and his team at Motus.
 from really right up the road, just right up the street, on another student housing multi-family project. We've done a couple with these guys and we're super excited about this one as well. So we're a smaller company, we're about 50 people. We develop and manage properties around the country and we really pride ourselves on being good community developers. We focus everything we do around the resident experience and the impact on the surrounding community.
 And one thing we always make sure we do is design the building from the ground up. And we do that because we know that most people that are walking around the site, that's how they're experiencing the building. So making sure that what we're providing offers a safe, vibrant, inviting experience for everyone in the community and in the neighborhood. Do you want to flip? You can kind of skip through everyone that's familiar with the site. I talked a little bit about subtext.
 Here's a couple existing projects that we have. This is really just to show, and Chris will get into this, but we make sure every project is super contextual to the surroundings. And I think you can see all the designs look different and these are all based on the city that they're built in and everything that's built around them and how they can fit in and feel like they belong there and they're going to stand the test of time.
 All right, let's keep going. So I'll breeze through these real quick. I think everyone is aware of the need for housing in Fayetteville, and I have a couple stats up here, but obviously the university continues to grow. I think this past year they had the highest enrollment in record, and they're supposedly growing to over 36,000 students is the goal at this point. And then that chart just shows the enrollment growth.
 then the lack of growth and university housing so obviously a major need for additional housing and then one more so in addition to the need for housing we also wanted to just highlight a few reasons why we feel like this is the perfect place for that housing to be
 You can see our site in blue. We have just a quick 10-minute walk radius is what's in green. And then you can see we're essentially bookended by the main campus to the north and the west. You have the Wingate campus that was just recently built. That's to the south with South Yard. And then obviously all the other amenities that are within walking distance, whether it's restaurants and nightlife on Dixon or Walmart and other grocery right around town.
 So I think it's somewhat self-explanatory. There's a major need for housing, and if there was one place to build it, it seems like this location within walking distance to the university and all the other amenities seems like a great fit. So with that, I'll let Chris take over.
 Chris Bear with Moda Studio. Thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. Thank you, Jonathan. Just very quickly in analyzing the existing site for this project, of course doing some quick takeoffs, realizing about 82% of the site is currently undeveloped and again referencing the need for housing.
 That Mitch just laid out our proposed zoning is really going to allow for the highest and best use of the property is the goal We're requesting the main street center so that we can achieve seven stories in the middle of the site Which will allow us to adequately and properly park the project
 And then be compatible with the other development that's five stories on the perimeter at the adjacent sites So very early conceptual massing showing the existing projects in the foreground that are cardinal and atmosphere that Jonathan Referenced earlier on his maps and then showing our project just in a massing in the back You can see in the middle of the site is the proposed seven story area for parking and amenities on top of that if you feel one more and
 And then looking back towards the university and downtown, you can see again the compatibility of the massing with the other student housing projects that have been developed in previous years. This really is a great neighborhood for this type of walkability and connections to the campuses. One more. That's the existing kind of corner of Treadwell and Duncan today. You can see Atmosphere on the left and Existing Summit Terrace on the right. And one more if you would.
 And then of course the goal is to build out the streetscape to be compatible to finally complete the Master Street plan section that was built with the atmosphere Fix the problems of sidewalks and walkability and bikeability in the area By developing this and even to the point that we're still this is very early We're still working through the ideas, but even the potential for a pedestrian plaza off this corner with uses that would be appropriate for the people living here and with that happy to Answer any questions
 Okay, what questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? Under the zoning you're requesting, you are allowed to do some commercial use, but I don't
 my understanding is you're not planning on doing that. It is a possibility within the overall development, particularly for coffee shop, bodega, the type of services that would make sense for the amount of students living there. Yeah, because as we move towards a walkable city, part of that is having those amenities that people can get to, but that isn't part of this plan as far as I... It is. Oh, it is. You are planning on some commercial space on the ground floor available to the public on this project. Yes.
 Okay, I think that's my main question I have for you I'll have some other comments later on after Okay Then we'll take some public come Oh Teresa. I have a quick question for Jonathan under the current RMF zoning code under the conditional use permit our would a coffee shop potentially be allowed and
 It would be up to a certain scale. I'm trying to remind myself. I believe it's about similar to the previous item that was discussed. The conditional use permit for what's called limited business also limits the square foot of the business. I believe that for a coffee shop would be about 1,500 square feet, 2,000 square feet. Excuse me.
 So other commercial properties could be there under the, if they went through the conditional use permit under the current zoning requirement, but limited in size and probably in activity too. That's correct. Thank you. To follow up on Teresa's question, would that be, would that 1,500 to 2,000 square foot size, would that be for all commercial on the property or for each proposed commercial unit on the property? That's all commercial units.
 but it does not count against residential, if that makes sense. So if it was 2000 square feet, that doesn't mean a 2000 square foot building for residential and commercial. That's just your commercial limitation. Got you. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address that was present in the chamber. We'll be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first? Hi, I'm Katherine Cook. I live at 98 South Duncan on the corner of Duncan and Putnam. I've been there 12 years. I'm an architect in Fayetteville, Historic District Commission,
 I know for sure that if the rezone goes through our building will be sold and if it doesn't it will not be sold and it then we're safe but along with that it's not a context of a neighborhood it completely destroyed the neighborhood tear it down and build another massive building set back to set back tear down all the trees there's no community anymore it's I mean it's
 I don't know, I know I've sent in enough emails with all of my opinions on this, but I'm very opposed to this. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Taylor McKinney. I'm at 2821 Cotton Willow Way in Fayetteville.
 I currently live in Fayetteville and I know that finding housing is incredibly difficult. The affordable housing that the displaced people who are asking for help currently, the housing they currently live in, is incredibly difficult to replace and these people may very well be just chased out of the city.
 We, the city has declared a housing crisis and it's important to build more housing. There's too many reasons that go against rezoning this specific property. We definitely need housing, full stop, but we have to balance housing sustainability with the humanity and quality of life of those that are currently living here. And we also need to preserve the character of this neighborhood. For these reasons, I'm urging you to vote no. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I could not hear what her name was. Oh, it's Taylor. Taylor.
 Taylor Nicole I'm sorry Taylor McKinney, okay Nicole
 i'm going to try to not take more than three minutes although they took a little less well you have three minutes anyway you want to cut it okay so all right my name is jasmine nile i live at 104 south duncan avenue so i am just one house away from this three acre plot that we're talking about i just want to tell you guys we do have a safe and culturally culturally rich
 and diverse neighborhood of long-term Fayetteville residents. Yes, there are some students that live in that area, but there are also a lot of people who've been there for a very long time. And the folks that you're talking about at Summit Terrace, a lot of them are international students and students who have families. So they're not just your regular everyday students that we're thinking of in our 20s who,
 will be okay. There are also kids in that neighborhood that I see waiting at the bus stop at the corner of Hill and Putman every morning to go to the elementary school that I work at. Many of those students, or I'm sorry,
 so yes i worry about what will happen to these students and my other neighbors when they're forced to move out because this is one of the few remaining areas with affordable housing where middle class residents can live and enjoy the amenities of our city i'm i worry that it would be detrimental to the character of our city and to the neighborhood surrounding downtown to remove all affordable housing in downtown that has character and
 and diversity and replace it with a large modern luxury apartment complex that I'm sorry you guys, I apologize, no offense, it looks like Denver. It doesn't look like Fayetteville. That doesn't have Fayetteville's character. So I worry that we will lose the character and culture of the city that are the reasons that people are moving here in the first place. And then on top of that,
 My primary point, though, is parking and traffic in that area. It is very bad. I know that the fire marshal has come by before on previous times to discuss how bad the traffic is and how many parking violations we have. So I would hope that if you guys do put this in, you have more than that 80% that the other places put in because we're dealing with...
 blockages from their traffic from their parking violations all the time and the only reason I'm not calling every day is because it's connected to The police department. I know they have better things to do So I am very concerned about that I see speeding parking violations reckless driving public intoxication and high traffic density on a very small street That does not have crosswalks and does not have a continuous sidewalk all the way down South Duncan Avenue. I
 There are also not any road markings. I'm definitely running out of time. This area is unfortunately also not safe for the pedestrian traffic that you guys are talking about. The residents of Duncan petitioned to get a speed cushion, but it's not enough.
 The sufficient intersection density that's mentioned as one of the positives in your list actually includes all four of the intersections surrounding the proposed area that are very dangerous and blind intersections. I understand it's already zoned for 40 residents an acre, but changing the zoning to Main Street allows for more commercial time. Can we give her one more minute? I think they get the point. Do you need one more minute? I can probably just use 30 seconds. 30 seconds would be okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 But we'll give you a minute. So I thank you. I really just want to throw out one last thing that I also reached out to the Fayetteville superintendent, Dr. Mulford, for a comment. And he expressed concerns about parking and traffic as well, stating that he would want insurance that sufficient parking is incorporated as part of any redevelopment that he has insight. He also has insight into the parking problems that we have in that area because he's been dealing with that with Fayetteville High School.
 In an ideal situation, more residents would be walking, biking, scooting, or riding the bus. However, we need to be realistic about the behavior of college students and high school students.
 And that's what's primarily going to be in that area. And they fly over top of the speed bump. And they are not safe on these roads. And they're unfortunately not walking most of the time. So they do need a place to park. And you guys need more than 100% of those beds worth of parking. And you need somewhere for them to park if you have a coffee shop as well. Thank you.
 Hello, Council. Hello, Mr. Mayor. My name is Gideon Durzon and I live at 1530 North Pershing Street. If this vote fails, will there simply be a five-story set of units with little to no multiuse capacity on the land? If so, I believe that that's a worst case scenario than the reason I'm going through. But if not... I think we're having trouble hearing you. You need to pull your mic up a little bit. Okay. Is this better? Yeah, it's better. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 but if not letting this residential area be is a good thing the long-term residents of this area and similar spaces are still in need of safe affordable and consistent housing where will they go will they have to leave our city i know that this kind of question will be put to the housing crisis task force but the people who live in this housing now are being affected immediately i believe that this type of mixed-use zoning is a good thing and i believe in building for this type of density but is there truly no assistance for those who would be displaced
 How can we make certain that there is in the future because similar situations will continue to happen? If this is truly a version of the trolley problem, track laid over the course of years by people other than yourselves, but the lover pulled by the council, please take this opportunity to vote in the way that you believe ensures the future of this community will flourish. However, when you think about what projects to bring next and what ordinances to bring,
 Our track into the future is being laid by you, and please do your best to help those who will be displaced in the wake of progress. We can always put love and creativity into how we help the people around us. My ask for you today is to change the old relevant codes and be creative in order to help everyone who might be displaced in the future. We need housing desperately, but the exact people we need the housing for are the ones being caught under the wheels right now. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Misha Hutchings. I live also at 98 South Duncan. I arrived to Fayetteville, Arkansas from Houston, Texas in 2016 to attend grad school at the University of Arkansas.
 To anyone who has been to Houston, Texas, you will know that they have no zoning and they had a very, very, very big influx of apartments this size into neighborhoods in the early 2010s to 2016. What I saw happen completely wiped away any amount of community that was there.
 community that had been built over generations and generations of people of many diverse backgrounds generationally speaking and also ethnically speaking in our neighborhood right now me and the other people six people that live in the six blocks have been very good friends for the past four to six years we communicate almost daily
 Right across the street from us is Sam, who is about 90 years old and plays piano for a church in Eureka Springs. Right across the street from him is a couple that have owned that house for many, many years. We all know each other. This is all to say that I know that there should be more housing and mixed-use developments and large developments like this are definitely part of the solution.
 to echo what another person said also i think there should be in the future maybe some more creative ideas about how that gets accomplished and how the people who live in the districts that are creating the communities that make people move here and stay here
 acknowledged so I I say you cannot stop progress but you can shape it and we leave that with you here today to maybe vote no not now let's reconsider it thank you thank you hi my name is Kahlua Kahlua Kahana I'm a longtime resident of Fayetteville but depending on your vote tonight I might not be for much longer
 I live at 98 South Duncan at the Six Plex where Misha lives. I moved in before the pandemic. I went overseas for my bachelor's and came back here and started working at domestic violence shelter. And I found the perfect place to live, really close to the courthouse where I was working, providing services to victims who needed
 who are running for their lives. And that job is what led me to go to law school. And so I'm not just a resident of Fayetteville, I recently became one of the students who lives in this area, who is able to walk to class. And it's a perfect place to live. And we heard a lot about how new buildings here might be good for the community. They will be contextual
 But it won't be the same community. I won't be there. If you vote yes on this, you will be displacing residents and students who cannot afford to live farther away for people who can. The people who are going to be able to live on top of the hill where I live now, they'll have the means. But the people who live there now don't.
 Like Misha said, in the last minute I have, I just want to let you know about our community. You saw in that picture, in the very middle, there's a big open spot. That's where people come bring their dogs. I have a mini schnauzer named Blue, and I take him out there every day on my work break to run him around a little bit. During the eclipse, people sat out there and watched the eclipse. Yes?
 Right after I got off work on my way here, there were international students playing cricket. The community that I have at my apartment is what got me through the pandemic. Like my neighbor Misha said, everyone in my building knows each other. And one good thing about what's going on right now is I've gotten to meet a lot more of my neighbors. It's, it's, uh,
 I just want to end by saying thank you all for how you serve us and how you represent our interests. I know you have to make many decisions every day and it's not always easy, but I just want to thank you for listening to us, people you represent. So thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello, my name is Deborah Cook. I'm not only a longtime resident of Fayetteville, but I have been here my entire life. I live on the corner of Duncan and Putman at 102 South Duncan. I have lived there my entire life. It's the only home I've ever known. And I've watched other apartments like this get put into this same neighborhood.
 And I, as a student, I also went to the University of Arkansas, which I was grateful to be able to live somewhere where I could walk to school. I get that need to have students be able to walk to campus. But I've also been in some of those buildings to visit friends, to visit other students.
 And a lot of them are built in ways that are not really, it's cheaply made. That's not to say that these people will do the same exact thing, but how can we expect much better based on what we've already seen?
 I also have since graduated from the University of Arkansas returned there as a worker. I worked at the University of Arkansas in the food court at the student union. And I worked alongside many international people, many other low income people who also helped the university run and help our students. But I've also seen many of them struggle to find housing that is connected to the bus system.
 but also the bus system stops at a certain hour. They can't get home after their late night shift feeding students. So the same students that we want to accommodate and want to build more housing for is going to displace some people who I have worked with that have helped feed those same students.
 And those workers can't necessarily buy a car. They can't necessarily move somewhere further away without severe inconvenience, not being able to walk home after a late shift. And so I wanted to speak up for some of those people who live in the Summit Terrace apartments. And there's also a lot of international students with
 families of their own who will not generally be welcome in the kind of space that this apartment complex would provide so i wanted to speak up for them and for myself and my community thank you
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. I do not envy you tonight's decision and I'm glad I'm not if they're making it. I've said that a few times lately because you are repeatedly faced with these questions that are bad no matter which way you go. And this one seems to pit the indisputable realities of soulless economics against people who give Fayetteville its soul and that's unfortunate.
 On the one hand, we need more housing, like thousands of units of more housing. And we've been saying that for years. And here is a net increase of 200 units. That should be a no-brainer. And yet, on the other hand, this will displace 52 existing households. And what's worse than that is they won't have much of anywhere else to go, as they've explained. Almost certain that the new apartments that replace their old ones will be priced for an entirely different market segment. They won't be able to participate in.
 So while we may see 240 more units on the $1,200 a month price point, the folks who are renting right now at $750, they're losing out. And that's not a gap you can just make up.
 We know and mostly accept that new construction is going to be more expensive than the old, and that is the reason why it's essential that we pair our efforts for new housing with efforts to preserve our existing affordable housing. This isn't doing that. It's not an even trade, and unfortunately, it's the long-time working-class Fayetteville residents that are on the losing side of that uneven trade.
 So whether you vote yes tonight to replace 52 homes with 240 homes, or vote no and they get replaced with 115 homes instead, we'll probably drive more of our working class folks out of town, and this sucks. The ones who right now can walk to their jobs in their schools are going to be forced to another community, and if they're lucky enough to keep their jobs, they're going to now be driving in
 and there's more of our parking problem. The fact that you keep having to make these least bad kind of choices
 That's a sign that our hunting and development codes are broken. The whole system is broken. The 1970s codes aren't working for 2020's problems. And the good news here, it's not going to help this issue tonight, but they are your codes and your system and you have the power, the authority, and the responsibility to change them. And after this vote, I hope that we'll start hearing proposals that will balance
 preservation of housing because here is yet another case study for what happens when we don't take responsibility for that thank you thank you who else much addresses okay do you have on zoom I have Billy cook okay all right can you hear me yeah
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Billy Cook and I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane. I'm zooming in tonight as I was double booked for another function, but this item is just too important to miss and not speak on. In my capacity as an organizer with Arkansas Renters United, I have had the fortune of talking with a good number of the residents who live on the actual parcel of land due to be rezoned. And they all seem to be universally opposed to the idea, as you've heard tonight.
 They are long-term Fayetteville residents, some of whom have lived in that location in excess of 10 years. The residents were so alarmed by this proposed rezoning that they organized themselves and even had a neighborhood meeting that a couple members of this council attended.
 They express their concerns about potentially being displaced due to future development and their potential for not being able to find anything that is as affordable as this where they live now. Moreover, those that live along South Hill know well that it's a busy street already for walkers, cyclists, and motorists.
 They brought this up during the organizing meeting and how they fear that future development would only increase the infrastructure needs and strain on an already trafficked area. I think we should be listening to the people who are currently living and working at this site who know it best.
 This neighborhood is a host to a valuable stock of workforce housing that already serves the area well, especially considering the walkability factor to the nearby Fayetteville High and University of Arkansas campuses, as well as proximity to a nearby grocery store. Last month, this council voted unanimously to declare a housing crisis, and we are all thankful for that. And since then, it has moved with great speed to approve new developments that will bring hundreds of new beds to our city. That should be applauded.
 However, we must remember that these new developments should not come at the expense of what we already have, especially when the people living there now would have little to no chance of being able to live in whatever new development goes up in its place. This area due to be rezoned is already being properly used under its current zoning and serves its residents well. And for that reason, I hope you vote no. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? No one else on Zoom, Mayor.
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Sarah? I have a question. Jonathan, can you remind me again with the existing zoning, how many units could be put on this property and how many units are already there?
 I've heard a few counts, but it's approximately 50. I've heard 52. I've heard 53 also just over 50 Currently exists on the property and the existing zoning allows I believe it's 116. I think it's yes. Okay. Okay, so If if the property sells just the way it is without any rezoning someone could come in and add more units to the property That's possible. Yes Okay, so
 this is a hard one is one of the commoners pointed out this is a difficult one um you know we just declared a housing crisis but at the same time that doesn't mean that uh we can just rubber stamp everything that comes comes past us and and i think height and context are important uh the zoning for cardinal and atmosphere that's that's at rmf 40 is it not jonathan
 It's a mixture. I believe both properties are a mix of RMF 40 and DG downtown general. Oh, okay. That wasn't represented on the map. Which map are you referencing, Councilmember Stafford? I believe the zoning maps in the staff report both indicate areas of blue that are downtown general. Okay. I didn't make the tour with the rest of you, but I did my own walking tour of the neighborhood. One of the cool things I saw was some of those international students playing a game of cricket.
 That was fun. You know, this is pretty much a mix of, I would say, international students, workforce housing, and it's hard for me to prioritize, you know, students from Texas, consistently prioritize students from Texas over our own workforce.
 We need housing, we need all sorts of housing, we need student housing, we need workforce housing, we need every type of housing available. But what I really have to, and another thing is, and I understand the passion of the people that live in the neighborhood, this block will probably get redeveloped no matter what our vote is. Whether it stays as it is at RMF 40 or gets up zoned,
 chances are that someone's going to redevelop this at some point. And we don't really have a way to stop that. But when we look at context, the neighborhood context, and what belongs in this neighborhood, now we've been told, like, well, look to the north and you see Atmosphere and the Cardinal, so therefore this fits. But if you look to the west, if you look to the east, if you look to the south, well, maybe it doesn't.
 And at the street level, where the atmosphere is right across the street, you've got five stories on the street. This lot, just ground level, rests about a story above where the atmosphere is at Treadwell. So you add that one story of just height being the dirt, then seven stories on top of that, all of a sudden you're
 you're technically, if you look across the street from each other, this building is going to be three stories higher than what the atmosphere is at. You go to the south and to the east and to the west, where the buildings are all pretty much two-story. I don't think I saw any three-story buildings. You're looking at effectively five stories powering above those. I don't mind height.
 You're not going to hear me push back on height very much. I think we could even go higher in some areas than seven. But it's contextual, and what's the context? And just a few weeks ago, we were having a discussion over whether a three-story, what looked like an old neighborhood house on Stone Street would fit into the context. Well, that's just a block away from this. And we were discussing whether or not that would fit. Well, this is a whole different beast.
 And yes, it's contextual to the atmosphere in the Cardinal, but those weren't necessarily contextual to the neighborhood when they were built. And I love a lot of what MODIS does. I love a lot of your work, but quite frankly, the Cardinal, it looks like a shipping container development to me. And those are great in certain places, but it also looks like it's already dealing with some, they've got the scalpel, you know, doing some major repairs on that.
 I think the context is really important here, and that height difference of this thing where you're sitting on a hilltop with narrow streets, with lower houses, with one and two story houses right close by, that makes a difference. Now, you could argue, well, those are going to get torn down and redevelop sooner or later anyways, and you may be right, but that's not what we're dealing with on the ground right now.
 we're already going to be getting, if somebody wanted to redevelop this today, you're already going to be adding housing and pretty much an appropriate amount of density, I think for this neighborhood. So we have to look at what are we gaining really for these extra two stories? And you don't look at it compared to what's there now, compared to what it could be built to now, which is that RMF 40.
 So that gain isn't as big as it might first appear. Now, I don't know how I'm gonna develop on this. Like I said, I can't protect the property from being redeveloped. It's gonna be redeveloped no matter what we built here today. It might give you an extra year, might give you an extra few, but at the end of the day, the block's probably gonna get redeveloped. But so for me, this is a question of what's appropriate there
 and whether this extra act is appropriate. And I would be much more in favor if I saw some serious neighborhood commercial on the ground floor that might sway me, but that's not what I've seen so far, it's not what I saw in the presentation.
 um i hope we leave this on the first reading tonight because i think there's a lot of thinking to do i think there's a lot more information uh you know at least for myself uh that i need um to to be in favor of it if i were to vote tonight uh i could not support it thank you okay scott thank you mayor um
 As the applicant's attorney spoke, Mr. Kjellstrom, he mentioned that I had an email from the present owners.
 And I asked about that because it was mentioned yesterday at the tour. I'd heard someone say she had sent an email in, and I had not received it. So I asked about that late this afternoon. And it's really interesting. I think it speaks to the reality of the situation. We're not in a very good position here because we're going to have to make a hard decision.
 And we don't like it, but we have to look at it and try to figure out what's best for the overall community. But as one of the ladies spoke, she said that she knows that if this was denied, that this would not be developed, that they would get to stay in their homes. And this email that the owner of the property sent us clearly states that,
 That's not the case. So I want to speak in reality right now. She talks about the history of the home and history of the family and her dad and mom had the property and her dad took care of all the upkeep of the property because that was the way they made it financially feasible to do what they did. But as he aged, he was not able to do that anymore.
 and that Alzheimer's overtook him. And when that happened, the upkeep of the property declined. Now the property is to the point that they had to make a determination. Am I gonna keep the property and refurbish it? Or am I going to tear it down? Or am I gonna sell the property? The refurbishing and the tearing down of the property or the tearing down of the property each would come to
 a substantial increase in rent to pay for that, to make it financially feasible. They all live out of town. They chose for their own personal family interests that they couldn't do that. And that's understandable living out of town. But that brings us to where they are. They've made a determination as a family to sell this property. So we as a city council, we can't keep them from doing that. There's no way we can do that.
 We can't keep them from developing a buy-right use at that property. So the realistic outcome of this is some folks are going to be displaced, and I don't like it, but it's the reality of it. So I think as a city council, we've got to determine, okay, what are we going to do? Are we going to consider, and we do have a housing crisis in Fayetteville. We've all identified that.
 Are we going to up zone this to allow for the most we could get out of that piece of property? So I think that's where we are. I'm fine if you want to leave it on the first reading to review some more. But I wanted to make sure that since I did have this email from the owners,
 that we put that information out there. It was not an easy decision for them. If you read this email and saw the history that the family had at that property, that was their father's last wish to keep that property as long as they could. They can't do it anymore.
 So the reality is what it is right now. So I think that's where we are as a council. It's a decision we've got to make that's not going to be a pleasant decision either way we go. But we have to do what ultimately we see fit on this. So thank you. Great.
 Thank you, Mayor. Scott, I don't think I got that email, so it would be nice to have that extra piece of information. I would. Thank you for relaying it to us tonight. I guess my question is, if we leave it as RMF 40, if it's not upzoned,
 So we're talking about that they could still build up to five stories. So the difference is three stories. So what is the three story amount, how many more units would be in those three stories? Or two stories, if I'm understanding correctly. If I'm off base, please correct me, Jonathan. You're correct. The difference between RMF 40 and its five story allowance and MSC is the two stories to get to seven.
 And as far as your question, I think you posed this at the tour as well about what that increment represents as far as housing numbers. I could speculate at that. There are many different ways that housing could be arranged. I think the applicant could answer that in much more detail. But again, with any development detail, it's subject to change depending on what they ultimately submit. So if we do leave this on the first reading, what would be so helpful to me is
 speculate next time what's the highest potential amount of units would be within those two stories. I think that would be, I mean, you're going to have to make a lot of assumptions, but it would really give us a number to kind of evaluate. Thank you. I will. Thank you.
 Okay, Sarah, then Bob. There's Bob first. Okay, go ahead. Just quickly, to Scott's point, I think there might be confusion. I think there's more than one property maybe on sale. I don't know if the woman that spoke was sent from the same property that you're referencing because there's a great building on the corner, then there's the big apartment building, then the couple of houses. This email is from...
 Cassie fought and they are her and her sisters own Summit Terrace Apartments and Kerr investment yeah I believe the the property that the the public speaker was talking about is the not that but the great building on the corner of Putnam and Duncan
 first i want to say thank you to the residents and that came out and spoke tonight um you know i commiserate with my colleagues you know this is not an easy decision by any means um one of the things that was brought up um you know we are in a housing crisis and having us solve this you know holistically across the entire city but also one of the things that we put in our comprehensive plan is making sure to really honor the significance of each of our kind of neighborhood centers
 And so I would ask for you to really think about that context around that hill. And if you haven't had time to go out on foot, I've gotten to spend a lot of time out there on foot campaigning. And so it was really helpful to engage in it in different ways in that area. And so much like was spoken about by Councilmember Stafford, those buildings with the student housing that exist,
 there, you know, one time that character was different. Within our comprehensive plan, we lay out city neighborhood and I appreciate it. That was on the applicant slide and I can't remember what slide that was. So I'm going to paraphrase because I couldn't pull it up on my computer. But when we designated a city neighborhood, we are encouraging density in all housing types.
 single-family to multi-family one of the things as we look at how we comprehensively plan this area with the possibility of any additional like zoning or changes is that there has been additional information that's been added by the residents in that area that they are actively being pursued by other developers too for the potential for additional other larger type developments
 And so I just, I think it's a part of our decision making to think about when we've looked at other places comparably about those buffer areas potentially. When I look at that RMF 40 that's happening at the atmosphere, that got 640 beds.
 you know, to see the five stories, thinking about what that looks like, you know, whenever it is that larger building kind of looming over some of these cottages that are right there and trying to think about making sure that we are honoring that mixture of the types of housing that exist in that neighborhood. And so, I mean, for that reason, I would be...
 definitely in support of you know holding this if we think that it makes sense for us to continue to have additional conversations and I'm also ready to vote tonight as well but I would be supportive of the RMF 40 the way it is today and not increasing the density
 okay I suppose I'm gonna leave this but I do want to remind the council that we passed a resolution just I'm sorry I was late mr. mayor I apologize then I would comment that the the curs own everything on the block except two smaller properties so I think that's valuable to know
 I think it's one of the two hardest decisions that we'll be making. I'm not enthralled with student housing, yet we need student housing. Student housing is what the financial market will lend money to construct.
 If you're going to build student housing, this is on the correct side, the west side of the train tracks. This is adjacent to the campus. It's adjacent to other housing. So if, and I'm not saying to do it, but I'm saying if you're going to have student housing there, this would be a place that I would want the maximum amount that would be able to be parked. Correct.
 It's no secret I'm enthralled by our parking exceptions. Bike racks mean nothing to me. There's bikes on the back of pickup trucks that have to be stored somewhere.
 but if someone is willing to park their development i would just assume for the sacrifice if people are going to be displaced to not get the minimum amount of housing but to maximize what can be provided on the block and that would just be my biased perspective if we go there don't go small for the amount of pain and i would just assume us whatever can be legally parked
 to go with that. My understanding is that the height above the five stories is the parking structure and if we go there then that doesn't give me heartburn if they're parking it.
 So it's, this is an unbelievably challenging complex one because I think there is community there. I think there is that longstanding sense of neighborhood there, but if it's gonna be sold, I don't want it to be sold and developed to the lowest level, thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I know what you're about to tell us. We did say there's a housing crisis. Well, I was . I know you're going to remind us of that. But I just want to remind everybody that we did acknowledge that. And I think we all acknowledge that we need to build a ton of housing in the city. But at the same time, that doesn't turn me into a rubber stamp that I have to approve everything across my desk. And I just want to say that. Well, and I just want to say that I have a resolution passed by the council.
 Once that we're talking about thousand units a year Stats Easy, so these this is a terribly hard decision. I don't like it any better than you do but We're gonna have to make these kind of hard decisions We are if we're gonna meet and you know I don't want to wake up with everything just being gobbled up and that's not keeping up with the housing market This is going on
 long enough and we need housing in this city and we're going to have to do this. I mean, I'm not saying we have to do this one, but I am saying we're going to have to build a thousand units at least a year. We heard that from Britain. Just she sent you the report. Now, this is not the first one of these big developments you're going to see. And they're coming one right after another. So it's a tough decision and it's not an easy job, but
 Nobody said we had an easy job up here. So, and I don't like this any better than anybody else does. I can assure you of that. Yes, Scott. I guess we'll leave this on the first reading. Or what are you going to do?
 well i was just going to ask since uh in reference to council member stafford's question is it appropriate if we can ask if we're going to leave it on the first reading if the applicant when they come back give us an idea of the amount of uh retail that they would have on that first floor that maybe would i think they're listening to you now so if something tells me they might have some information for you that might that might help the situation so it would i agree with bob i think you
 you know, good commercial stuff on that bottom floor would look a whole lot better to me also. But I'm also saying we're gonna have to do stuff like this. Okay, so we'll leave it right here. All right, let's go on to number eight. A resolution expressed city council's intention to approve an extension of water and sewer service to a proposed development outside of the city limits at 1011 South Molly Widenham Road
 at the owner developers expense Scott this one is yours do you want oh no it's not yours it's Tim's I'm a state well I thought council member might want to talk about first okay well it's whatever however you want to do it I was just going to say that yes I did sponsor this I was approached I think I said this in agenda session I was approached by the owner of the property
 They were asking because they were just outside of the city limits, if they could attach to sewer to the city sewer line because the infrastructure is there. Initially did not think there was any chance of that. But then I saw that there was after speaking to staff, there was precedence for this. He's actually about he would ask for annexation, but he's about he does not have any piece of it piece of his property that touches the city.
 He's about 50 feet away. So it is problematic in that regard. The reason I felt like that it was appropriate to bring forward was in the county by right, he could do four houses on this piece of property on four septic tanks. Due to the close proximity to the river and the fact that he's close to the sewer line, he wanted to ask for more density in that area.
 in return for being able to attach to the city sewer. I know some folks have expressed some concern about sprawl, but the way I viewed that is we're going to have a construction project on that piece of property. We can either do four houses on that piece of property out in the county that's on septic tank, or we can
 Do a higher density with the understanding that it's built by city standards It's inspected by the city inspectors Any upgrades has to be paid for that by the developer and in return they attached to the city sewers, so I felt like it was worthy of consideration and I'll let Tim talk and then John McGowan the developers here for any questions. I
 Well, thank you. So, the utility staff has determined that we likely have sufficient capacity for the sewer. And as we mentioned before, probably upsizing of the water main if there's going to need to be fire flow protection. But what we really need is some information from the developer or from the owner on the estimates, the
 So we can determine what the actual water and sewer needs will be of the property. So capacity, cost, and density and all that. As soon as we get that information, then we can take a harder look at all of it. Okay. Now, you've got an African here. Where's the African at? Yes, come on up. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening.
 Thank you for staying. Yeah, this will be a lot easier, I would imagine. At least you don't have an apartment complex. Anyway, we're going. The gentleman, is it Logan? Yes, sir. I think you got that. Well, you have 10 minutes, so. I think I can keep it pretty simple. Mr. Barnett. A little work for me. He kind of said it perfectly. So here's the property that we're talking about. And.
 Just to give you a tad bit of history on it, if we could jump forward to that next slide here. This is the shape that it was in. Go forward one more. This is the condition that this property was in before I purchased it. I live a half mile to the north and had to drive by that every day. Sheriff was there, multiple sheriffs, five days a week.
 These folks have been caught at my barn stealing from me, and I told my wife, we're gonna buy this property the second it comes available. I was fortunate enough to get the property. Can go to the next slide. That's what it looks like now. Oh, go back to that slide. Go and see that again. It's a junkyard. Well, what's the picture? It was sad. It was the first time that I've ever legitimately, they were drug houses, and it's the first time that I've ever experienced DHS,
 First hand and it wasn't a fun one, but that's what it looks like today if you can go forward one more there it is Nothing on it at all. And so I went down to Washington County and I said hey, what can I do on this property? I want to retain the property because I'd like to have control of What goes on there and they told me that I could put four houses there I came back talked to my wife about it and was very close to doing it and
 spoke with Mr. Jones quite a few times. I think he sent the first email out to multiple different people. Jonathan was involved in that email. We got to talk about a month ago and then again here recently about another development that was able to tie into City Sewer that wasn't annexed in. That piqued my interest to do more units there and I kind of left it with, I'm willing to do what everybody would like to see done
 I would do 30 units. I'd do 12 units. I don't really know what to send for sewers. 18 inch line I think. Water's two inch line sitting on the site already. So if we kept it a low density, I would imagine I could probably put eight units there. The county takes me to large scale development anything over one per acre. So that's where that balance of
 is it going to be worth it, comes into play for me. And so I think what makes it worth it is going to obviously be more units. Make it more affordable with the location that it's in. Answer a lot of the problems from the previous discussion. If you could go forward, there's a few pictures here of just the site. There's a pump station right down the hill, so everything that went on this would be gravity fed. If you could go forward.
 Continue forward probably three or four more clicks. There we go So this is a development that we did about a year ago on Huntsville Road Within probably a mile of this other site. This is something that I'd be happy to replicate down there you can click through showing some of these and Really, that's that's that's all I've got here is that I'd like to get in the sewer and and balance the
 cost of the amount of units that you guys would see fit and try and make it happen okay what questions do we have Teresa thank you mayor um thanks for your presentation tonight how many acres are on your property that you have it's four point two four point two and of the four point two is all of that field or is it just around the perimeter where you have we have trees can you go to the
 Probably the second to last slide for me, please. It plateaus the west side, is a valley almost, of where Cory Trace, Ross Coleman subdivision, I think that's probably used for the detention pond for them, overflows and then makes it down this ravine and goes down to the river. So right here, where you see the raw dirt on the top, where the junkyard was,
 Those boxes are kind of my proposed buildable area. To the right of the long rectangle there on the east side of the lot, that kind of drops off quickly. And to the north, again drops off down to the pump station. So your buildable area is fairly limited.
 relative to the size of the site. 60, 40 maybe. Okay. And so, I mean, just kind of looking at that, if you went forward with that, how many units would that be? The one that you just saw on the previous slide, that was a 20 unit complex on basically an acre. And so it was tighter than I liked, but it's filled up immediately. Parking hasn't been a complaint.
 So I know that we could easily put 20 units right there and it'd be a lot more comfortable. Jonathan and I were talking a couple of weeks ago and you'll see the, I think it's April lane there just under the pond. The house to the east of the pond is very similar site to what I have. They stopped accessing their property from Mallee Wagon because of all the
 the drug houses and looped in over on the Ross Coleman subdivision which is all city of Fayetteville and then to the east of city of Fayetteville but I would even consider leaving it to where there could be a cut through there you know pre-planning it thank you yeah and so you said you'd be happy even if you just were able to build eight units like that's what you're allowed to do by right for units by right yeah
 sorry go ahead four units by right with the county i would be ha to the truth be told i'd do four units and connect a sewer if the numbers work right the the proposal i guess that i'm making and the suggestion is bill to pay it bill code and ordinance and i'm happy to do that um to keep these affordable is is the goal so if i build four but i have all kinds of infrastructure cost
 Yeah, and then there's I might as well just stay within the county in that Roush Coleman neighborhood that we see to the South and West that's it. That's like a block away. That is our current city limit. We go back to slide one Because that's a great question and and I'm encompassed on all sides except to the north by city limits And in the only and the only reason you can't get annexed right now is because that one property doesn't want you have to have connectivity and
 25 feet. Southwest corner. And that's in the upper left corner, Jonathan, of this map, that's the White River? That's correct. Yeah. And what we're talking about in the area, it's not just the White River, but it's the right river right before it goes into Lake Sequoia. It's, I think, right at the outfall of the Lake Sequoia Dam. Just below it. Yes, Lake Sequoia drains into this before proceeding to Beaver Lake. So, I mean, I think, I don't
 We don't have a map that zooms out, but you're pretty much right in between Fayetteville and Elkins. We're closer to Fayetteville than Elkins right now, but as far as services go, as far as the grocery store, about 50-50. So I don't see this as sprawl, as some might. I see it almost as infill, especially when we look around and see what else is already there. And I think that it's just a matter of time before this is part of the city.
 East, west, south, I mean you're right there. It just fell in the block. So I think, I support this. I think it's a reasonable request. I think, you know, hopefully we can help you get some, at least density that matches your neighbors there. And thank you for cleaning up that property. My pleasure. Yeah, I'm sure. It's good not to have that in your neighborhood, isn't it? But, yeah.
 It was $50,000 worth of dumpsters. Yeah, I bet. I bet. I believe it. Thank you. Sarah. I have a staff question. Thank you so much for what you've shared so far, though. I appreciate it. Thanks.
 i and i'm not sure who this needs to go to whenever you were talking about the upsides of the water main um if there are improvements that the city has to make towards this property who bears the burden of those costs for that and you said right now you didn't know the full scope of the project so it sounded like having more details the financials for that are going to range differently potentially is that correct or not correct did you hear that okay yeah
 So the upsizing of a water line to satisfy what the developer needs would be the responsibility
 And then you, I think, did you say as far as capacity in that current area, you said based on what you know today that you think it's got just enough, I guess, to take that on at this time? Well, the sewer side appears to have enough. We still need to look at some data, but the water line is a two-inch line, so if you're going to do any kind of density, there's going to have to be fire flow protection, so we've got to have a minimum of a six-inch line for fire flow protection.
 Okay, thank you. Anything else? Mike? This is a question for Jonathan and that is it's in the county, how are we going to handle the zoning?
 The short answer is we're not. I think the more lengthy answer is this is a resolution to express potentially council support of this. If this is passed, the next step for the applicant to work with county planning and city planning is to evaluate what would be needed to move forward, including questions of capacity and unit counts. One of the obligations or responsibilities of the applicant would be to approach the county and request zoning entitlement.
 in the county it's pretty simple either developing agriculturally or single homes on an acre everything else is a conditional use permit in the county so they'd have to get conditional use permit approval since we do not have zoning authority with that they'd be able to come back to the city for a development review that would be captured in a subsequent resolution similar to what was done
 About ten years ago in the northwest side of town with the humong village subdivision where it was developed outside the county to city standards With an expectation that at the first opportunity to annex into the city it was does that answer your question? It does in your conversations. Do you have a density basis? for this gentleman to do his math and to determine what's
 threshold he needs for water and sewer expenses to be viable for him? I think a lot of that will need to be backed into based on unknowns including what was discussed about the water capacity and sewer capacity, understanding what unit counts I think will maybe be the biggest driver because that could be the biggest cost as well.
 Also as the mr. McGowan represented there's a potential interest to create at least the the groundwork to connect to that street stuff out To the west to provide connectivity in this area If that were built to city standard as would be the expectation for that to be a public street in the future That's going to come with some costs costs as well that may need to be incorporated into the unit count So I I think there are several
 Several issues that proceed or several items that proceed being understood before unit count could be could be determined. Thank you Mr. Mayor, I'd like to add to that This is a unique situation for the City Council Because you can actually do a lot with a contract he we have an asset of
 that at this point this owner would like to access, and that's our sewer. And when you have a sewer, then you can have much more dense development.
 So it's really a lot of it's up to the city council to decide what kind of density that you are willing to accept there or what does it look like as well as all the impact fees and everything else it would be automatic. But you have some rights at this point in time, bargaining rights, so that you can work with the proposed developer to see if you can come to something that works out for both sides.
 And I think that you probably need to think about that and see what kind of, consider what kind of development you think would be good for the city and the infrastructure that would be needed for that. And the developer's gonna probably have to pay for that infrastructure. And on the other hand, you have to keep his interest in mind. What can he afford? What makes sense for him to do in order to get the sewer that would help him develop his property and much more densely.
 So that's kind of what we're sitting at now. We've had contracts before, I guarantee you. I worked out one where they built part of Rufa Road for us.
 because they wanted to be annexed into the city and have us supply them sewer. So we had a substantial contract that worked out and we got a portion of Rupa Road out in the west built for us. We cost shared with them, so they built part of the road. They dedicated all the land. We didn't have to buy any of the land, but we cost shared with them to build it.
 And it worked out very well for us. So when you're in a situation like this, you're in a very unusual situation because you can't bargain on zoning. You're not allowed to do that. This isn't zoning. This is providing a city service in a way that hopefully will be good for the developer as well as good for the city. Mr. Smith?
 One of the things I'm thinking about is how we determine what's going to work for the developer and the numbers that he can put in there because we have to think down the road if this is tied on to sewer it has to be enough households to make it cost effective for the city because at some point that's going to be back on the city. It'll be a long time down the road hopefully.
 but where the city will have to replace sewer lines or if the road is extended, the road will be our responsibility and that sort of thing. So I'm willing to bet that 25, 30 years down the road, this is all going to be developed out here in a way, or there'll be...
 you know, more things there than there are now. So I think this is a really interesting opportunity for us and for this developer, but I understand fully his need to get the right number of units on there to make it cost effective for you, but then also what will be cost effective for the city down the road too, so.
 So I have a question for Kit and one for Jonathan. Kit, are you saying we need to work through this before we pass the resolution? I would say not. I think this is a resolution of intent. It shows that you're at least willing to consider and work with him to see if you could come up with an agreement that's going to be satisfactory to both sides. And I think passing this resolution would show that you are seriously considering offering sewer service if everything else works out.
 Jonathan, I understand we're not allowed to, Fayetteville isn't allowed to zone in the county, but aren't we able to, within a certain zone, aren't we able to dictate lot sizes and therefore kind of have a work around with the zoning? We have the ability to review subdivisions of land within a certain distance of the city.
 I don't want to call that zoning authority, however. Ultimately, that entitlement has to come through the county. If the county says you can build 10 lots on half an acre each with a certain amount of frontage, that's what it's entitled to. And we review that when it's within our planning area to ensure that it's built to city standards to some extent. We don't get to apply things like tree preservation, for example. But if we wanted to say we're going to let you subdivide this into areas
 eighth acre lots or quarter acre lots we can go ahead and do that and that would effectively like it'd be in the contract yes it would be yeah i i think i'm following you know that for example that was a piece of the hemont village contract refer back to that i believe it was uh framed as trying to be developed at a rough ratio of about eight units per acre so once that was established that's what was taken to the county to request a conditional use permit to develop that they would still have to get the cup correct okay
 Thank you, Mayor. So if I understand this correctly, the process would be that we would sign this letter of intent, a resolution of intent tonight, and then I guess the governing mechanism would be the contract. So the contract would come back to the city for review? Is that how that would work? Yes, the contract as well as the authority that would be granted, part of the contract would be granting him the right to use our sewer.
 And part of the contract would be what he is agreeing to in exchange for that. So there could be conditions within that contract. For example, I'm just throwing these out, a removal of the septic tanks.
 Things like that because you're hooking up with sewer. I'm just trying to understand how this process would work. Well, basically a contract is going to be what we can come to, what we can agree to, and that's why rather than trying to use our regulatory power, we have some regulatory power outside the city but not much, but we have some.
 But the contract gives us much more power, which whatever we can come to as an agreement that'll work out and you know can include preserving some trees if they're not you know in the way and stuff like that so we can
 make the contract where it's going to be beneficial hopefully to both parties. And that would include lots of different things including access as well as the sewer line and that kind of stuff. I think obviously the two-inch water main seems pretty small to me. So that very well might have to be enlarged and and that's another thing that will motivate
 higher density than if we didn't enlarge that so cute would with that contract come back to the City Council for approval every contract does okay I thought so okay thank you you always know until the mayor's so Sarah I thought you had your life actually what councilmember Turk was asking on the process was why you know I have hesitation around the sprawl aspect
 but if we have an avenue you know I guess one of my questions was whether or not when we're working through those contracts sometimes you know these types of things have been like what think about our workshop around our housing crisis resolution you know we added a lot of input kind of had a workshop and wonder if that water sewer committee it would make sense for us to be able to give feedback about what we might want included so that those that sit on that committee potentially could help with that but
 Just throwing that out there, not sure procedurally if that makes sense, but having that ability to look at the contract later is important. So thank you.
 I think we can get this all worked out with the contract and you know to something that will be agreeable to us and it comes back to us for our review so I would like to make a motion that we approve this resolution. I got to take public comment. We didn't even get to public comment yet.
 We won't be issuing a building permit. We won't be Processing any planning applications how is this applicant going to pay for the staff time that their proposals are going to consume and given that
 I'm not sure of any fee mechanism that we have but we might be thinking about this if this isn't once in a blue moon going to happen because I'm looking at it taking some negotiating time with you some city attorney time we're not going to collect that billing on water and sewers so
 I don't think I would say that. We got a contract here. They're going to pay impact fees, just like they're living in the city, they're working in the city, even though they're outside the city. And they can easily pay building permit fees and have us inspect, too, if that's what we want to do. We have a lot of rights with a contract to do what is the right thing to do. Ultimately, I would be here asking to be annexed if it was a possibility. I would love to be annexed. It's 25 feet that's keeping me from that. So I would treat it.
 with the respect of exactly what he just said in the contract i'll come in and treat it exactly like i'm in the city councilman ruediger i think that question was directed at me and at the risk of sounding repetitive uh there is a precedent for this with the humont village project where we did require building permits we did require inspections we did require the payment of impact fees and and that was all paid for and captured in that document yeah
 I think his reaction is the main reason that I chose to bring this forward. He made it very clear to me when I was talking to him that he wanted to be in the city, but 25 feet kept him from being able to ask. But he's more than willing to do whatever it takes in the way of to make the project feasible to work within the city's guidelines and the city's desire to get the project done. So that's why I ultimately brought this forward. Okay, are we...
 Let's take some public account. Can I take some, yeah. The biggest point that's been brought up that's the hardest hurdle for me to get over is the vagueness of what everyone is wanting to see built there. And respect to everybody's time, I kind of want to know, I mean are we talking enough density to make this affordable housing or are we talking a low density where I have to go to a higher end tenant?
 With increasing the water, I think the sewer line is going to be fine. The water line, increasing that is where a huge amount of cost is going to be. Doing the road, huge amount of cost, especially if we're talking about potentially connecting it through at some point versus making it a private parking lot. So I'm just curious to know when those next steps are.
 happen if it is suggested that I can access the utilities. Part of it will be the, what this
 resolution requires that you're doing some studies and stuff to indicate where the cutoffs would be where you would need something more like like to increase the water main and some of that's going to rely upon the studies that you're Supposed to do on this resolution that we included. I don't know if you did you have you seen the resolution? Absolutely Okay, so you've seen that we're gonna want some studies and so the preliminary studies you'll need to do and then basically you can
 tell us, you know, well if I do this much density, well yeah, I'm gonna have to increase the size of the water. I mean, if I keep it low, then I won't and then we can work from there to see how to work this out if possible. Okay. I just don't want to end up in the same situation as the previous citizen did.
 no you want to work toward what happened when we did this on the west side of town and it worked out so stay away from seven stories five stories i would stay yeah below seven yeah don't get into the stories okay keep it under seven okay yeah keep it under seven yeah all right okay let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone the public or any council members
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Yes, Kyle. Thank you, Mayor. I expected to oppose this tonight, but when you look at the map, is it sprawl? Absolutely, it is sprawl, and that ship has sailed all the way down Huntsville Avenue already. This is not between Fayetteville and Elkins. It's between Fayetteville and Fayetteville on three sides. It's
 Why is it not already in Fayetteville? Don't know yet. This, what he's proposing matches the surrounding development patterns better than four units would.
 And some of you, I saw at GroundWorks Housing Summit a couple of weeks ago, it was great to see you there. And one of the things they talked about was a lot of the trouble that Bentonville is having where they have just let subdivisions go wherever without planning their sewer capacity and how they are trying to now finally pay attention to the planning and what their system can handle and clean up some of the mess.
 sounds like our staff is on top of that so i'd say if we have the capacity to serve the need uh this is this makes a lot of sense it should be faithful and hopefully it will be soon anyway
 I would suggest that you plug your ears and don't think about the sprawl on this one, but do support this as a strategy to get housing in an area where we already have housing, and to do it at a density that will sustain the infrastructure maintenance long term. That should be the metric if we're going to extend sewer infrastructure and water infrastructure outside our city limits. Make sure that in 80 years we can still pay for it.
 that seems reasonable and then hurry up and get these folks annexed thanks all right anybody else all right you have anybody on zoom no sir okay this is resolution i know it's not yes it is it's not it is it's short anyway
 would before we take a vote I wanted to suggest that we go out there for a tour so we have a little bit more understanding so I'm just throwing that out there maybe we could schedule one in the future but keep that in mind well are you wanting to hold it is that what you're saying I would know I'm not saying hold the resolution I'm just suggesting that we should have a tour in the ball that's all I'm suggesting that's great
 Yeah, we need a motion here. I'm going to make my motion. I started to make it. I'll second Sarah's motion. I want to make a motion. I'll just say it out so that we approve the resolution of intent. I'll second. Okay. I already have a motion to second the passed resolution. I would ask for any final comments, but I think we have had several comments. Anybody have anything else they want to add? Okay. Jonathan.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Jones. Jones. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Okay. Let's go to number nine. Do you all want a break or anything? No, let's just hang on here. Do you all want a break or anything? Okay. All right. We'll continue on then.
 The resolution to appropriate a million dollars in general fund revenue received as ARCA general revenue loss to fund the housing crisis task force early recommendations in response to the declared housing crisis. Sarah, this one is yours.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I think was passed out and sent out today an amendment. And so I wanted to thank the comments and feedback that Paul provided in our agenda session. So I was able to go back and take those into consideration, especially around the language around earmarking this.
 So I really appreciate him pointing that out. One of the additional things that I think has been kind of like talked about and discussed in the session that I wanted to talk about is, you know, this resolution, and just to kind of read the title, is earmarking a million dollars in general fund revenue that was received
 as ARPA General Revenue Loss Replacement. And it's for the purposes to set it aside to implement the early recommendations from the Housing Crisis Task Force. And so, you know, one of the reasons why we do this, you know, before the task force is formed is because, you know, we want to ensure that there are enough resources that are available to really support their efforts.
 And really wanting to make sure that we avoid any delays in implementing actions that might get identified, especially if there's like a short near-term or any low-hanging fruit.
 And so also I wanted to talk about, you know, there was some discussion about the potential of using these funds for parks. We are so lucky with these types of funds that they can be used for many different purposes because they, you know, have many of the kind of handcuffs and requirements off of it. So many of our other monies do have specific requirements.
 But one of the things I think whenever this was maybe looked at in the past about parks was a couple of years ago, and we know so much more. I know it's come up in so many of our conversations tonight about the housing study that was done, about our inventory levels, about...
 And the fact that we did deem this housing crisis. And so for those reasons, additionally, when you think about the American Rescue Plan Act dollars that came into communities, one of those was for these direly expressed and things that really had been exasperated because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And so I updated the language, and I think that you might have some of the strikethrough and then the additive language that kind of more encompasses that level of information. But this would literally just work to set it aside and then those identifying projects.
 things like we've heard code come up so many times in conversation. We know that code could take half a million dollars. That would make that available. We've heard different things about the possibility of affordable housing type projects. That money could be available because, again, it doesn't have some of the restrictions that we've heard from the city attorney's office in the past.
 And so with that, I'll kind of open it up to my colleagues and be happy to answer any possible questions. Council Member Moore, are you going to move to the resolution that you wanted to have before the council that's been amended from your previous one? And Kit, I think that's, I needed to just ask you procedurally if it'd be good to go ahead and try to amend it now for that to be the discussion of the item. Well, if you're not amending it now, then you're talking about...
 appropriation and not earmarking okay then do I need to make a motion to try to amend currently then okay I'd like to make a motion to amend to the copy that was sent out today by email and I believe that you got a printout if it looks like my as well that changes the language from appropriate to earmark okay yes yeah so what I'm looking at in the sheet that got handed out to us is the backside is showing us the changes that have been made
 and the front side is a clean copy the front side is a clean copy gotcha I'll second the motion okay is there any discussion well one question is for kit kid if I wanted to have a real quick further amendment would we will we pass this first and then I would make we're not gonna let you a minute ever again after that oh no yes go ahead and pass it to this and then if you want to change it you can do that again thank you
 Okay, we have a motion second to me and to the latest Yes, the version that was sent to you all and I also left a copy on each one of your tables Make sure I got the right one here. Okay any discussion on that? All right, Jonathan, please call the roll Verna Yes. Yes lunch. Yes Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Stafford. Yes Jones
 more yes Whitaker yes okay now we have the amended president anything you want to add okay start with Bob um yeah and I appreciate you going back and amending this I think it helps me along with it there is some concern I have in and I'd like to maybe offer a quick amendment to
 Yeah, I'd like to have discussion first, but I think I'd like to have section two looked at it seems We're pretty in a undue urgency Folks I'd like you know
 I'd like to change, you say Arkansas hereby request the housing task force return recommendations within three months of first convening.
 urgency and restrictions on folks. I think we can still keep a sense of urgency without giving them a hard deadline. If you'd be open to that, that would make it easier for me to say yes. I do think that I know that some of this money maybe was earmarked for perks. I love our perks. I am a big fan of our perks. Yes, the horseshoe area needs to be
 But at the same time, when we're looking at ARPA funds, to me that's not the purpose or the best use maybe of those funds. And I don't know if the redesign is going to fix some of the problems that exist there. I'd love to have a talk about that. So I am open to this idea and earmarking these, for me, what would be a more appropriate way
 use of those funds, but I would like to address that what I feel is undue urgency in section two. Basically you're saying that you want to delete section two? No, just tone it down. Just tone it down? Well I would strike the immediate and immediate, I'd say appropriate use of funds and then
 the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby request Housing Crisis Task Force to make recommendations in a timely manner for the appropriate use of these funds to begin endowed in the housing crisis. Will work for me.
 could I make a recommendation I made a note sorry well just differently just if we just strike out the time timeline so it agreed that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby request that the housing crisis task force returned recommendations for appropriate use of these funds to begin addressing the housing crisis just gets rid of the immediacy term so we just delete only we add nothing so we have another minute on this okay
 I believe he was accepting my reading of the deletion. I make a motion to pass as Sarah just read. Okay. Was that a second? Yeah. Scott, you don't have your light on. Well, I do, but I thought they were going to vote. Oh, yeah. They're going to vote on the amendment. So you don't want to. I'm just saying. Okay. All right.
 We have another amendment on the floor that strikes, what was it, the timeline on the task force? Strikes the words within three months of first convening as well as and immediate, and then that leaves the rest of the words. Okay. Everybody got that? All right. Jonathan, call the roll. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. More? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay. Now we've got the amended, amended resolution. Yep. Okay. Well, what discussion would we like to have? Scott, then we go to Tracy. This would be a question for Paul. Can you tell me if we were to give this million dollars exactly where that million dollars would come from? I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question.
 The million dollars suggested right now, if I understand the resolution, it is to remove the earmark to go to parks and instead earmark it to go to this housing issue. Is that what I understand? Correct, Paul. That's what the, I believe the language currently states, yes. Well, your heading talks about using it, but in the body it just says reserves.
 So you're removing the earmark and for parks, that's your presentation and instead Allocating it the housing is that correct? All right does that answer the question because I had that question also Yes, and I obviously was not here when this was done But can you guide us and give us some direction and maybe some sure? how it was determined that the parks
 was a good landing spot for these dollars. Yes, that discussion took place roughly, I believe it was 2022, and it was at the end of the year. At that point in time, we looked at filing for an actual reimbursement for losses for that year of revenue of income. As we looked at that,
 there was a remaining amount of roughly five minute five million one hundred thousand dollars I think was in that neighborhood we came to the council at that point of time the council agreed to reimburse the city for those losses due to ARPA to do to ARPA those were losses in revenue due to ARPA at that point of time since
 It was actually a new revenue. We came to the council and suggested that the council consider the new revenue to be used for infrastructure at that point in time. Now at that point in time we talked about it being used for infrastructure and again it was late in the year. We talked about it to be used for infrastructure and two programs that we suggested were number one water and sewer.
 and that was water and sewer to address some leakage in a water line, which we did two months ago, I believe it was, and $1 million to look at some renovations to Walker Park.
 One of the reasons we suggested those two was in the revenue losses, number one, we did have losses in water and sewer and we did have losses in parks because HMR revenues were decreased, which supported parks at that point in time. So the proposal was to ear market and ear market is a
 a relatively loose term. It just is the city we're going to consider this going forward. Now the one thing about earmarking, we do that at that point in time because one it was a different revenue and number two we knew that was going to cross over fiscal years. So when you earmark, the only really reason for an earmark is to reserve it to cross fiscal years.
 And we approved that, I think it was either in November or December, can't remember the exact date, this point in time. But because we did that, we knew that a plan would be developed so it would be at least 2023 before we would have a plan for these to bring forward to the council. As it is, we didn't get that plan done in 2023 for Park. We came forward in 2024. So that's how it got there. Does that answer the question?
 So I guess with that in mind, I see Allison sitting back there. I'd like to hear from her about why Walker Park was selected directly, and then what's the funds supposed to be used for, and how is it going to be beneficial to the community? Sure. First of all, Walker Park is in Ward 1, correct? Yes. Thank you for the question. And I have a few slides of graphics to pull up if that's okay. Okay.
 I think Logan I think you can skip to slide number five um there we go so Walker Park was chosen because the funds were identified for Walker Park because it will help reposition the park to better serve the community this is located in a qualified low-income census tract
 And improvements will provide and allow for free and low-cost recreational opportunities now and in the future. And these types of improvements that we're looking at were very valuable during the pandemic. That was certainly on our minds when we were thinking about this and will continue to be so in the future. If you can flip to the next slide please.
 This is just a brief summary of the input that we went through to develop the master plan. We started in early 2023. We held multiple stakeholder meetings and public meetings. We went through a variety of online surveys and in-person surveys. And Parks Board ultimately approved the master plan.
 in the fall of 2023. And then the city council approved us to move forward with the contract for construction documents for the first phase of the park following that in December. Since then, we've been working towards refining the design and preparing to bid by the end of the year. Next slide.
 This is just a quick snapshot of the funding that is currently, that we're currently looking at for the first phase. We have about $2.4 million in bond money identified for the project, $500,000 in 2024 capital improvement funds, which are HMR funds, and then this $1 million in general fund is what we're looking at for the first phase. And then the next slide.
 The current funding, which would be the HMR and the bond funds we anticipate will focus on repurposing the southern part of the park. You can see there's a yellow dashed line. That includes removing the existing baseball field, repurposing that into multi-use open green space, also adding sand volleyball and gathering space to increase year-round use of the park.
 I will also update the playground, move a portion of the horseshoe pits to the east side of the creek. These improvements will also reduce the visual clutter and increase visual sight lines through the park for safety.
 The additional funding here in the red outline, this is what we anticipate it funding. It will include an entry off of the Razorback Greenway on the west side of the park. It'll include a plaza space with social areas and yard games, including bocce seating areas and potentially a climbing boulder. It will add additional horseshoe pits on the east side of the creek.
 It will also look at enhancing the west side of the creek, adding some shaded seating areas over there and increasing or improving the landscape over there. So this is a fairly modest budget for the park. We're working with pretty broad cost estimates right now, so once we move a little bit further into design, we'll know exactly how far this is going to go. But this is what we anticipated covering at this point.
 And if these funds were pulled from this project, is there any way of replacing those funds? Do you have any vehicle to replace those funds? We don't have any other funds identified for this park at this time.
 I have a question for you Allison before you go back on your bad foot there. So you gave us that slide that had the breakdown of the time frame of all the work, accompanying
 Do you have a dollar figure that kind of goes along with how much work you put into it already, into the plan and all the other things so that if we were to take this money out, then you're out a lot of extra work and what other funds you need? So funds that we've spent on it to date include the master plan contract, which was around
 $95,000 to $100,000 to create that master plan. And we have a current contract that's around $200,000 to create construction documents. Thank you. Sarah. I didn't want you to walk away again. I'm sorry about your foot.
 My question is, I mean, obviously nobody wants to be splitting the baby, right? Like that's not really fun. I'm going to have to try to think about, I mean, we've talked a lot tonight about a lot of hard decisions. My question is more about, you know, we have so many things that we want to do. Our parks are incredible. And yes, you know, we utilize them a lot when we take care of them.
 Are there ways to pause parts of the project? I mean, not saying we're not going to do it, but are there ways when you talk about phases to include things in additional phases down the road because some of that preparatory has been there and the feedback and the due diligence. Can it be in additional iterations? I think projects can generally be phased at any time. However, every time you add another phase or you pause.
 Most of the time it costs more to come back and restart the project so the more we can get done in one chunk Is going to be more efficient financially like? Thank you, Mr.. Mayor originally in the whole arpa world scenario I
 Paul can correct me if I'm wrong, but the Municipalities and counties were eligible to take a ten million dollars. No question asked You don't even have to account for it By doing detailed accounting for your loss, which was our original intention is the City Council Councilmember Turk came to us and said hey, you know what? There's so many other additional needs and
 Couldn't we reduce the amount that we allocate for the city to free up some funding and We determined that that was a good thing for us to do and so we ended up earmarking Apparently just a little over five million dollars and so I'm not Enthusiastic about this and
 re-earmarking of this million because I assumed it was going to go for infrastructure to be honest with you. Whether infrastructure is a park or it was the repair of a water main along MLK, those kinds of projects were discussed. I had no interest in designating this specific project but allowing the city administration to say here's the greatest need, here's the best use for that funding and that is still my posture today. Whereas the greatest need
 I just had hoped that it might be for infrastructure, but I make no bones about it being used for a park. Park is a human infrastructure endeavor, and so that's where I'm at today. Thank you. Paul? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. My question is for Sarah. In your research and looking at these task forces, what are some of the recommendations that have come out of the task force that you might anticipate needing funding for or for implementing those recommendations?
 And I'll specify that in looking at the research, I've done more in regard to like what cities have done with their ARPA funds and not specifically to the task force, but I think there would potentially be overlap. And so, you know, one of the things that was identified tonight through us talking about
 property that's looking at rezoning was that kind of frustration around you know knowing that this workforce affordable housing potentially what you know would exit that space and so the possible identification of potential you know projects that there would be some level of outlay or design or diligence work it's been brought up so many times you know in conversation about development codes and so you know that's obviously a relevant
 way that it can be used. I've been surprised at some of the cities in all honesty about some of the smaller amounts that they've been able to give to different organizations to do what they're calling affordable housing and haven't been able to dig in and understand what their financial stacks are for that. But I don't know if that's being done as far as like with infrastructure type packages or because they have additional private investment
 There are things that are brought up around things like housing land trust and so having the ability to the potential for seed monies that go into whether that's either towards
 Putting you know in place we have things like ad use and different code that folks have not been able to Take advantage of and so I know that's not an exhaustive list of all the things that are out there And and knowing again that the folks that would Most likely be at the top of the list for the task force probably have a level of expertise they're going to bring forward and that knowledge of things early on to invest in and
 I think my main concern is if we're looking at the task force who may not specialize in ARPA fund appropriations there may be
 some confusion about the recommendations that they make and how those funds can be appropriated. And Paul can give us some more recommendations when, you know, if it comes to that. But I think my problem would be the vagueness of the resolution and, you know, we don't necessarily know what recommendations are going to come forward and whether or not those ARPA funds would be appropriate for those recommendations.
 Okay. Scott? I think that's where I land too because I think we've hit the nail on the head in my opinion is we have a tangible project that we have spoken to the community about. It's an underserved community. We are improving the infrastructure in that park. We're making it very attractive for the community, giving them opportunities.
 or we can take the million dollars and set it aside for something that we're not even really sure we don't even have a task force yet. Yes, we have told the mayor to appoint one, but, you know, we've got to get those appointed. We don't know what their ideals are going to be. So do we take away from the community something that is tangible, that we have shown them, we have, you know,
 had the community involvement, gotten their feedback and say, oh, hold on a minute, we've changed our mind. We're going to take a million dollars away from you and you're not going to get that part of it anymore. For something that we're not even really sure what it's going to look like once it gets created. So I think I will struggle to support this because of that.
 Yes, Bob. So to me, this comes down to a question of priorities. Man, I love my bocce ball. I love my horseshoes. Add in shuffleboard and you've got a trifecta for me. I was born an old Italian cowboy, I guess. But if we're worried about whether this goes to infrastructure or not, I think there's a way to get the best of both worlds. Maybe we look at this and say that it has to go towards
 recommendations from the task force that support infrastructure, you know, connected to housing. I mean if that would make it more palatable to folks. But for me, I would support it as is. I would support it with some changes, maybe gearing it more towards infrastructure. But again, like I said, I cherish our parks. We have some of the best parks in any place I've lived.
 in any place I've visited. They're a jewel of our city. But for me, that these did come from ARPATHONS, to me that holds something and isn't so much about wants as it is about needs. And so I'll be supporting this whether as is or with some additional changes to hear it back towards infrastructure. Yep. Sarah. I have a question for,
 Bob, what would you imagine, I mean like when you're talking about gearing this, you know, this million toward infrastructure, what do you have in mind that that infrastructure, you know, what kind of suggestions would you be hoping to get for that? Well, I mean, I think you could look at things like what we did with Wello Band or, you know, when we have these housing projects that need help.
 mayor help me uh remember that we gave a million dollars to willow we gave a million dollars to open to go towards the pretty close yeah to go towards the infrastructure correct yep yeah sidewalks and i mean yeah sidewalk sewer water um okay okay well you know one of the things about
 We were hoping when we gave them that money that it was gonna be affordable housing, but it really didn't turn out that way. It wasn't quite as affordable as we were hoping it was going to be. They had their issues and pandemic as well, and it is coming along. And we just, the other month, supported some more dense housing in there that the neighbors supported as well to help us with that affordability component.
 You're right, Bob. We've just been a little while sort of getting there. Well, what else? We're going to have to take some public comment here. All right. Let's open it up to some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You get three minutes to sit down.
 a three-minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber be allowed to speak first and they'll participate by zoom after that yes scott hello again kyle smith 28 of one dove drive i hope you will earmark this money for something that you've all agreed is a crisis level priority and a need for our community not just a nice to have and
 I'm going to take you on a little bit of an ARPA history tour because just like Councilmember Berna, I had the exact same question about when was this earmark established for parks. And I went back and I watched eight council meetings from the last three years to figure it out. And so, bear with me here, it took some digging. But on April 19, 2022, over two years ago, that was the council meeting when
 the proposal to take the $10 million standard deduction came up. Paul listed, like he said tonight, the things that the city could look at were drainage and stormwater, parks improvements, sidewalks, and I quote, we intend to come and talk about these in the future.
 Fast forward to November when the budget adjustment was actually depositing the cash in general funds and it was identified as, and again quoting, committed for future infrastructure projects as we discuss capital in 2023, we'll decide exactly finally where it gets moved.
 That resolution was approved on consent without any questions at the agenda session, and the resolution did not mention parks. It had the word infrastructure. That was it. I cannot find anywhere a public meeting in 2023 or since where those conversations have ever happened in public. I've missed a few things, it's true. So maybe some of you have visited behind the scenes.
 If I've overlooked it, I hope someone will set the record straight and help catch me up, because I can't find anything in a resolution text
 other than the mention that parks might be one of the infrastructure pieces that we might consider as we set priorities in the future. And I may ask for a little extra time just to finish this, because on that same April meeting, Mayor, you said to the council, keep in mind that these are topics you can look at, not look at, because at the end of the day, y'all will be making recommendations. I mean, you can talk about whatever you want to, but these are some of the outlines of what this can be used for.
 It doesn't have to be used for it. It just gives you the option. At the end of the day, you all will be making the decisions about what we want to do with this. It's not like I'm going to be deciding what we do with it. At the end of the day, I rely on you all and the decisions we've had. This is going to be a decision you make. And a lot has changed over the last two years since those words. You've recognized the housing crisis. You've created the task force to address it.
 It's true, you don't know what their recommendations will be, but... Time. May I have 30 seconds? I'll give you time. You can, they have to give you the time, that's fine. That's fine. Just like that sewer contract, anything that they recommend will have to come back before you because the task force can't make appropriations, only you can.
 And so it makes sense that you're ready when they come back with the money in hands to act quickly on something you've said is a crisis and not to have spent it on something that would have been nice to have and then Have recommendations and go well, that's a great idea, but we can't pay for it. Thanks. I hope you will support this tonight Thank you. Yes Hello, my name is Gideon Dersan and I live at 1530 North Pershing Street and
 Earlier today, I spoke with a friend who was very excited about the city declaring a housing crisis, and they asked what the task force could possibly need this money for. Code reform and land acquisition are just two guesses of mine, as someone relatively inexperienced in the area. Anyone chosen for the task force will have infinitely better answers to the question than I do.
 I think that earmarking this money here is good. The intent to use it to support the task force has value. Those chosen for the task force will know that there is weight behind them and that their opinions and their decisions. We don't know what the task force will want to do because they don't exist yet, but we can make sure that we get their best ideas by letting them know that there are funds available for implementation. We don't want them self-censoring effective ideas because they aren't sure the city will invest in them.
 An emergency was called for, meaning this task force will need to do some very heavy lifting. If we wait until they tell us what they need, we've lost the opportunity to say that we were ready as soon as they did. So let's not accidentally spend the money on something else while they work just because we failed to set it aside. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I would like to, since this is...
 know, I don't know if DeAndre is still with us, but I'd like to hear, you know, if he's heard from anyone on this or what his thoughts are. If he's there any chance, because this is in his board. DeAndre is currently showing his online. I'm not sure if his technical issues have been worked out. DeAndre, can you hear us? I'm sorry. Okay, thank you. Well, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Is that correct? Do we? Don't we? Okay. Well, let's get this on here. I'll like.
 Well, I guess I'm still in a discussion, in all honesty. If folks feel like they need to do additional diligence, that's my question as well, of tabling to talk more about fleshing out what could be possible. If you want to vote tonight and you feel like you absolutely have a decision made, I would be ready to make a motion and we can vote on it because it sounded like there were concerns about kind of this vagueness or ambiguity of trying to clear that up potentially. And so...
 You know happy to go back and rework on that or happy to vote tonight I just appreciate feedback on that so you I'm just trying to get some direction. I'd like to recommend that we table this for two weeks to address some of the concerns We've heard tonight so I Move that we table for two weeks and DeAndre has his hand raised Yes, DeAndre go ahead
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. Yes, I have heard from numerous people and someone said it earlier tonight that we have declared a crisis and so it would be appropriate for us to invest in the declaration of a crisis. And so earmarking this money, setting resources aside, even though we're not going to be able
 the council has yet to be established that it doesn't make sense because when the council is established, then they will have the resources to do the work that needs to be done. And I am prepared to vote tonight if it comes down to that. Thank you. I wanted to make sure, because that's your award, your and Bob's. Mayor, I move we approve the resolution. Second.
 I didn't hear what? They made a motion to pass the resolution. I believe I had a motion on the table. I'm sorry? Well, you need a second. So I motion that we table for two weeks to address concerns.
 If I second that, what does that do procedurally? You'll have two motions on the floor. No, it doesn't remove the motion. We'll vote on Bob's first. That's right. Okay. A motion at table takes precedence. Yeah. Okay. I'll second. Okay. All right. We have a motion to second. Jonathan Caldwell. Burnham. No. Bunch. Yes. Thurk. No. Hertzberg. No. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. No.
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Motion is tabled to the next meeting. Alright, let's go to number 10. Alright, what are we, let me just ask this just as a point of working with staff. What do you want us to look at? Do you want us to look at anything or what do you want, Sarah?
 Well, I mean, it's up to what staff is available and your discretion as well. But it sounds like I heard questions around wanting to make sure what the monies could be used for. I feel like when I've had discussions with Paul about this money, and I've done a lot more nerding out with the webinars from the Treasury. But from what I understand, when this was taken as a revenue loss, it took away a lot of the requirements. And so it would be good for him to be able to, like, maybe 
 help with that as well correct what kind of housing type things could it be spent on yes sir detail on stuff and we're gonna have a task force coming up that's may undo a lot of things or do a lot of things I don't know but I mean I'm okay with that I just need to know what direction we need to be going here I don't want to come back in two weeks and nobody have any ideas
 Okay, well I'll take that as direction. All right, let's go to number 10. An ordinance to amend 157.03, annexation zoning map amendments and rezonings of the unified development code to require applicants to notify residents of property proposed for annexation or rezoning and to declare an emergency, hit.
 Peter ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 157 03 b1 of the Unified Development Code regarding who receives notice of private party petitions for annexations zoning map amendments and rezonings and an acts replacement section 157 03 b1 as follows quote
 Subsection 1. Who gets notice? Notice of the proposed action shall be given to all landowners and residents with separate addresses on the property and within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed. Residents with separate addresses shall be notified by first class letter addressed to the, quote, current resident to each address found in the city's address point file, unquote.
 Section 2 that the City Council and City of Fayetteville ARCS are hereby determined that this ordinance should become effective without delay because residents of property subject to private property annexation or rezoning petitions should be given the same opportunity as their neighbors to hear about and offer comment on city proceedings that could affect their homes or force them to move, which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 therefore the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon this passage and approval okay so this year's
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Kit, for reading that and for the help from the office. You know, all of our conversations seem to be centering back to the rezone on Hill. I understand for those on council who've been here for longer than I have that there were some changes that were made in the past on notification, and maybe there was some thinking that folks that were like renters at the applicant location were being notified that
 I was reached out to pretty early on in Ward 2 about the hill reason by one of the residents on Duncan And I happened to go and drive by that property and she happened to be outside and that's where I first heard and learned about that she actually had not been given any notification by mail that she happened to just be lingering outside and saw some workers and asked questions and
 And so that was the only way, yes we have our red signs out. I think sometimes people become desensitized to those maybe. I don't know. I feel like I see them but not everyone does see them. And so I had had a meeting with Jonathan right after that and asked you know where that would be addressed.
 And it sounded like it was going to be some fairly simple verbiage. And so this came directly from city staff just to try to close that loop that we recognize that over 50% of our residents are renters. And so if they are not the applicant on the property because they are not, their addresses would also get notification so that they could fully participate.
 in the processes and the reason I brought it with expediency is that we as mentioned by the mayor have a lot of these large projects coming lots of impact to renters and wanting to make sure that everyone gets proper notification so that was the urgency behind it yes and they're coming so what discussion would we like to have come on
 Yes, Theresa. Thank you, Mayor. I would just say thank you for bringing this forward. I didn't realize we had a gap there, so I'm glad it's before us and we can fill that gap tonight. Yeah. Do you have something, Bob? Yes, I thought you might have something. I'm just going to, did anything change from the last...
 Can I respond? Yeah, I'm sorry. I don't want to take the floor. Nothing has changed. It's exactly the same language as the agenda session. No amendments to it. And is this going to completely fill the gap of renter notification? What?
 I would defer, I mean, whenever I made the request, I think, to the city attorney's office and city staff, I don't want to speak out of turn because I did use verbatim what they brought forward because I just thought, again, it was a very simple, quick turnaround process of what the language change was. And I said, does this make sure that all those folks that are...
 the renter and not really the applicant, do they get notification? I was told yes. So I'll just let you guys confirm that. Certainly, and if I may begin by restating the problem, just to make sure I'm clear, the concern or assertion of concern is that
 occupants of a property are not getting notification when the change is being proposed on the property. If that is correct, then the proposal that's being made, that it was something that I worked with legal staff on to make the change. It's a simple text change that says,
 previously read notice of the proposed action shall be given to all landowners and residents with separate addresses within 200 feet of the boundary line of the property and that's adding language saying all landowners and residents with separate addresses on the property and within 200 feet of the boundary i feel like that does close that that gap as i described it yes
 So as this is written, you know, we adopt this, then... Sarah had her line on first. I was already, I believe I was already speaking and I hadn't finished. Okay. Go ahead. So this will change it so that at the property itself, you know, both the owner of the property and the resident will be notified, correct? That's correct. And already...
 we notify all occupants and owners within 200 feet? We do not, we require applicants to do that. Well, but they are required to notify the occupants and the owner. That's correct. Okay. I did wanna take a closer look at that. I did wanna look at things like increasing the distance, but that could be another day if the owner is not there.
 I would be happy if this was left in the first reading, but if you go for a vote, I'm fine with that. Sure. I have a question for Kit. Do we normally do, I mean, should this go to ordinance review or anything like that? Would you suggest it go to ordinance review? This is really a fairly minor change. Now every time you put a different burden upon a developer, then your affordable housing gets less affordable.
 This is a small thing, but every time you add new ones, delay the process, then you're making it harder and harder for affordable housing. But this is a minor one here, so I don't think it's very complicated. I think everybody can understand it, so it really is not one I think needs to go into this review. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Bob. Thank you.
 I was just going to say to Kit's point, I don't think this is a major cost. I've been in marketing and held a direct mail permit for years and you're just doing a simple mailing to occupant. You're only adding really one addressee to the renter that's in the house. Everybody else already gets notified. So it's just one extra first class stamp. Yes Bob, I've done these myself. Thank you.
 Okay, anything else? Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. No participating by Zoom. We'll speak after that. Is there anybody? Well, there's nobody here. Do you have anybody on Zoom? I have Billy Cook on Zoom. All right, go ahead. There.
 Thank you. Good evening again, Mayor, Council. I would just like to say from my experience, at the South Hill and Putnam area, I went with a resident to knock on doors to notify residents of that rezoning.
 And we were the first people to notify those people. They had not heard of the rezoning. They had not known that their housing may eventually be gone. And they might not have had an opportunity to participate, reach out to members of the council, and let city administration know their thoughts. So this is a fantastic opportunity to protect the renters of this city and give them an opportunity to let their voices be heard about how they feel with this.
 happening to their housing so I would urge you to vote yes tonight if you can at the very least this is a fantastic idea thank you all right anybody else okay well what would we like to discuss on this anything yes sir
 i i appreciate you council member staffer talking about the distance and i hope tonight maybe we can go ahead and vote on this tonight but i really welcome and hope that there'll be additional things i think distance has been something of notification folks have made mention too so i hope we'll see things in the future but if they're i saw a light so i don't know what's going to motion to move forward so
 so you're making a motion motion to pass a motion to pass and i don't know if i need to say and declare oh oh yeah yeah sorry we're on the ordinance sorry suspend the roles and go to the second reading i apologize second all right we have a motion saying we go to the second three john would you please call the row bernard yes hunch yes yes herxberg yes stafford yes jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to amend Section 16703, Annexations, Zoning Map Amendments, and Rezonings of the Unified Development Code, require applicants to notify residents of property proposed for annexation or rezoning and to declare an emergency.
 And maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. So good. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Jonathan, would you please call the roll? Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirsch? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. An ordinance amends section 12703 annexation zoning map amendments and rezonings of the Unified Development Code to require applicants to notify residents of property proposed for annexation or rezoning and to declare an emergency. Any final comments from the council? Please call the roll. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 yes or yes Whitaker yes there needs to be a motion to approve the emergency clause voted on separately yep motion to approve the emergency clause second motion second to pass the emergency clause yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, that concludes our business. Yes, Susan. Mayor, a couple of announcements. We're really pleased to announce the schedule that was published today from long-range planning from Britton Bostic and Jonathan's group about the 71B rezoning public meetings that are going to start.
 to begin next week and there are seven meetings scheduled so we'll have a pretty intense schedule to be able to work very diligently on that housing crisis around 71b and then also uh city pool opens on saturday that's right that's right okay we're adjourned