I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of June 5th, 2018. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Here. Here. Right here. Here. March. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. I am here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is under reports, the monthly financial report given by Paul Becker. Paul? Paul?
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a report on April. So that's the latest month that we had sales tax for. So this is month four in the fiscal period.
 As of this point in time, we're doing very well. Sales taxes are up about 4.7% compared to last year. Remember, our budget was 3%. However, as I told you, when you approved the salary increases in March, I was looking for about the 5% range increase.
 for us, which is kind of what I set our goal at, and we're very, very close to that. I'm also happy to report that building permits are up. Now, building permits are a very, very volatile revenue source, but they're up substantially through that period of time, through April. They're up $271,000 for the period. So in total, we're up compared to last year about $900,000, which is very, very good. So I'm very pleased with that.
 Again, as you remember, we talked about going into reserves for salaries. We probably will at the end of the year a bit, but it looks like it might be mitigated by better revenue than I had originally expected. So in the general fund, we're doing very well at this point in time. Street fund is essentially flat.
 We've collected $1.8 million worth of revenue, which is exactly where we are last year. We've expanded about $2.2 million because we got a little capital work over that, but that was to be expected. So we're doing good in the street fund also.
 Parking fund the parking revenue is down through April about 7% compared to last year, so it's down a bit however We should have the reserves and it's kicked up a little bit Through up through June I know so we're down a bit, but I'm not concerned about that We're still great just about breaking even when it comes to revenue expenditures at this point in time
 HMR revenue is up pretty strong, 5.77% through April. Again, HMR revenue is generally used for the parks and the parks maintenance fees. So that's good to see. Expenses are a little more than revenue at this point in time. But remember, we still have capital work going on in a lot of the regional parks.
 and also in the local parks at this point in time. So we're about where I expected to be in the HMR fund. Water and sewer fund, we're up 3% in revenue. We had a 3% revenue increase, so the usage is flat compared to last year.
 Our revenue is a little higher than expenditures. At this point in time, we had a lot more capital done last year compared to this point in time. We do have capital outstanding, but a lot of those bills hadn't come in yet. Again, water and sewer is right about where I expected it to be at this point in time.
 Trash and recycling, same story. We're just about flat compared to last year. We're where we are. We're expected to be. We've got sufficient balances in there. We have a rate study going on right now. I don't expect our operational costs to be covered by revenues this year. That's why we're having a rate study. And we'll certainly discuss that more when that rate study comes forward and we make some decisions or recommendations on what rates should be. But we're...
 recycling and trash collection is right about where I expected that one to be also airport bond airport sales are up 20% that's a good thing but again that sale of fuel so the expenditures for the for the fuel cost kind of offsets that
 We also had salary increases and some capital programs going on like that. So right about now, we're almost breaking even. We're about $1,200 to the negative as far as revenues compared to expenditures at this point in time. So I guess the overriding summary I'll give you, revenue in the general fund is up more than I had expected to be. Again, as we talked about, we...
 It may very well go into reserves when we have to put the budget together next year, but we expected that. So I'm very happy with the performance of the general fund. Everything else is pretty well flat to where I expected us to be compared to last year. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Anything? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Next order of business we have tonight is consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the May 15, 2018 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution authorizing professional engineering services grant with Burns and McDonnell Engineering Company Incorporated pursuant to an RFQ 18-01 for engineering design services grant.
 with water and sewer relocations required by the Arkansas Department of Transportation Interstate 49 Weddington Drive Interchange project in the amount of $203,269 and approved project contingency in the amount of $40,653.80.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of up to $128,930 for engineering services associated with the replacement of existing water mains along North College Avenue between North Street and East Millsap Road and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,786. Number four, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with...
 with the Board of Trustees, University of Arkansas, for the unoccupied banquet area in the airport terminal building to be used by Austria Lifelong Learning Institute to conduct classes during the fall 2018 semester in the amount of $25 for each day the space is used. Number five, a resolution to authorize additional funding in the amount of $10,000 for the provision of on-call engineering and surveying services for the airport by Garver LLC.
 Number six, a resolution to award bid number 18-31 and to authorize a five-year airport hayfield lease agreement with TriStar Contractors LLC in the total rental amount of $27,454.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Pipe Hunter 7934 wash trailer from Hennard Utility Products Incorporated of Searcy, Arkansas, in the amount of $73,895 plus political taxes pursuant to a Houston-Gallison Area Council cooperative purchasing contract used by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number eight, a resolution to approve a three-year contract with IPS Group
 incorporated for mobile parking enforcement devices and parking enforcement management permitting and payment software, in the amount of $80,140 for the first year and $62,500 for the second year and third years pursuant to a National Co-operative Purchasing Alliance co-operative purchasing agreement to approve a project contingency in the amount of $9,220 for each year. The contract is in effect and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number nine, a resolution to acknowledge the City Council's contractual obligation and intent to maintain 228 acres centennial open spaces, public recreation and land in perpetuity. Number 10, resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $23,106 representing a donation from Friends of YRCC to support the summer fund for kids program and fall programs at the Yvonne Richardson Community Center.
 Resolution to approve change order number one to the construction manager at risk contract with Crossland Construction Company Incorporated in the amount of $488,246 for the demolition of the Old City Hospital.
 Number 12, a resolution to authorize the conversion of a half-time construction and contract management position to a full-time custodial position in the Facilities Management Division. Number 13, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 4 to the agreement with McGovern, Williams, and Yates, a division of Olson Associations.
 Associates incorporated any amount of $8,910 to provide an analysis recommendation and cost estimate to achieve LEED goal certification for the recently completed Recycling Trash Collection Division Office Building. And number 14, a resolution to approve a grant agreement with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Commission.
 program for a certified local government grant in the amount of $5,791 and to approve a budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Adele? Second. We have a motion and second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Sorry, I didn't catch that. Thank you, Adele.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Under unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to waive requirements for competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with Bob Weaver for the installation of Water Main along a 370-foot portion of
 Oxford Bend Road with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Feville not to exceed $6,535 and to approve project contingency in the amount of $1,307. This is on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. No? Okay. Adele? So moved. Mark? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. It's under which police call the vote.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $6,535 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,307. Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Before I talk about this cost share, I'd like to give a little bit of a background about the east side water service area of Fayetteville. Prior to 1996, the water service area extended to Slaughter Mountain, and then for whatever reason, the White River water system –
 could not operate anymore, and so that system was split into two parts where Springville took half of it and Fayetteville took the other half. So at that point our water service area goes on 45 all the way to the Knoll subdivision through Goshen and then on the northwest side of 45 it goes out to Beaveroma and on the southeast side it goes up Firetire Road all the way to Benson Mountain.
 So that's our service area from the city limits of Fayetteville out to Goshen. Oxford Bend Road, which is about across from Waterford Estates, a little bit further east of Everton Road, is where this water extension is going to be. The resident is doing a main extension as required by our ordinance, but because of the fact that there is some growth in that area and it will be growing, we are going
 wanted to require him to install 370 feet of 8 inch line rather than 4 inch line. That way that 8 inch will be in place for the future, for future growth. That's an added cost of $6500 if we came back later and just put in an 8 inch line by ourselves, that 370 feet would probably cost over $20,000. Excuse me, Tim could you get the mic a little closer?
 Okay, and so we see a savings of about twenty thousand dollars by doing this cost share and I'd be hampered Happy to answer any questions that you might have Mayor I might add a little bit of history there The reason this became part of our water supply system is that the residents out there who are being served by wells We're suffering with sulfur water
 And even though the leadership of their water district did not want to give up their positions, the customers banded together and required that that district join either Fayetteville or Springdale, depending on which was the more appropriate district. When we—and correct me if I'm wrong here, Tim—but when we agreed to accept this as our water district, we agreed that we would supply potable water, which is 100 percent
 household water, drinking water, showers, not necessarily firefighting water, but potable water throughout this entire area. Now they would have to build the mains, in this particular case, enlarge a main so that we would be better able to serve the other people in this area. But this is a duty that we have is to serve residents of our water district.
 If they request it, if they have access to our mains, we are required to supply the water to them when we accepted them in our water district. Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Two quick questions. How many houses does a 4-inch main serve, and how many more does an 8-inch main serve?
 Well, in this case, the forest should be extended to one house, but a four-inch main could serve a whole subdivision without fire flow. In the older parts of town, we have one-inch mains that are feeding subdivisions. An eight-inch would give you what you need, the required fire flow for any subdivision. You've got to have at least a six- or an eight-inch line to have fire hydrants on the system.
 So that is the course of wanting an agent system. Okay. Thanks. Mark. I mentioned this at Water Sewer Committee also. This is the area of most capital need as we move forward in our 20-year plan for providing water to the east side of our water district.
 And if we can get a savings of $20,000 now that's going to meet our 20-year plan in the future, I felt like it was a good investment to explore. At this time, there's not a critical need, but if our 20-year plan is accurate, and we certainly hope it is,
 then we know that there's going to be a critical need within 20 years on the east side of the water district. And so when we brought this from Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, it came without a recommendation. And that's the reason because we don't want to encourage sprawl, but at the same time we do have a responsibility of looking at the long-term management of water
 of the funds that we have in improving the water district. And so I supported it, but there was discussion on whether this was supporting
 So, I wanted to bring that out as a fair argument as we move forward. But, you know, I think that if you have a savings of $20,000 now, if we were waiting until it became critical, it could even be more in the future. So that's how I looked at it and I just wanted to mention that. Tim, what are they currently doing for fire protection in this area?
 There is no fire protection. There's no fire hydrants, so it would be rural fire protection. So it's rural fire protection. They do have fire protection. They just don't have it. It's the Goshen, right? The Goshen Volunteer. Yeah, Goshen Volunteer. Okay. My thoughts are that this was one of the areas in our water master plan that I thought we could cut back on investment in because it's so far out aside of our urban growth boundary. And it's not very populated. It's...
 an area that I think we should leave green and make that part of our enduring green network. I do think it's absolutely appropriate for us to cost share on the four-inch line, but I object to installing the eight-inch line. Although now that you mentioned this about fire protection, I mean, that is an absolutely a valid point. But if they're currently being served by the Goshen Fire Department, I'm not...
 I just I don't think that we need to be building a whole new subdivision out there right now Or in the foreseeable future and that four inch line would be adequate as you said for a subdivision and for multiple houses So I'm gonna be voting no on this one, but I would gladly support that four inch line cost share not the age Well, and I understand and respect all that's been said so far I would support it for a couple of reasons one is
 SPRAWL CAN BE LOOKED AT AS A DIRTY WORD. SOMETIMES I LOOK AT IT MORE AS OPTIONS.
 than Sprawl when you look at 20 years ago, what was out here, I'm looking at Google Earth and the pictures, if I had Google Earth 20 years ago, I can promise you it wouldn't look the same. There are, I don't know how many houses in these different subdivisions. I do understand keeping things green and all of that, but I also understand that this is an area of town because East Fayetteville,
 is growing at a rate exceeding most of its land ability. It is virtually impossible to find lots to build homes. And it is true that some of these homes are very large, but there's also two subdivisions going in with...
 What I would consider sort of your your average I don't know what the average square footage is in Fayetteville on the west side of town But they're very similar to those neighborhoods and there's two or three more that look to be being cleared for housing development so
 I think it's unavoidable that this area is going to continue to increase in popularity. The schools are outstanding. The accessibility now with 265 being widened. We've already heard 265 is one of the most traveled roads in northwest Arkansas, so it will continue to be. And I think more and more people are moving out this way. And the fact that we can save...
 money I think is our duty in the long run because I have a feeling in 10 or 20 years a council if we deny This will be struggling to pay for An investment that we could make now that they would would have ended up not having to deal with and save money So I appreciate the idea of curbing sprawl but I also like to give people options in how they want to live and in this case I
 I think it makes sense, and I appreciate the city staff looking to save money in this respect, so I'll be supporting it. Thank you. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think we should take our responsibilities seriously when we offer to bring water to a group of people like this. As our city attorney was pointing out, we have certain obligations and certain duties. I think we owe it to the people out there that are there today or the people that are coming there in the future.
 to provide them with the best service we can. And, you know, volunteer fire department protection is one level of protection, but having fire hydrants in the neighborhood greatly assists people with their homeowners' rights, what they'll be paying for insurance on those houses, the cost of construction, and just the public safety for the children and the families that live in those houses. So I'll be voting in favor of this, and I agree with Councilmember Tennant
 Many times what we call a sprawl on this council is nothing more than simply marketplace choice. We want people to be able to choose if they want to live in an infill situation in town, that's fine, nothing wrong with that, but some people prefer to have two acre lots on the edge of town and not be right in town. We want them to have those options for themselves as well. That's what the market does. It gives everybody what they want. Thank you.
 Excuse me. Tim, question about the map in the document.
 Shows that we're adding the 8 inch to the end of an existing 4 inch line? That is correct. What is that smaller diameter leading out to it due to the ability to provide fire protection there? Well, this one 370 foot of 8 inch pipe is not going to provide fire protection. It's just the start of saving what we think is saving money to put the 8 inch now. The rest will come later as the needs come.
 A four inch on an eight inch is not serving any real purpose, but to get it in now would be a savings. Okay. Are there, this is a very small window on the map and I apologize for not investigating this one earlier. Are there other segments that would have to be replaced besides this little one? Are we looking at a huge project to upgrade that service in the future? Yeah, for the most part there wouldn't be a replacement involved, it would just be the installation of water lines in that area.
 Okay, anything else from the council? Okay. Thank you, Tim. I'm going to open it up for public comment. Now, here's the rules and regs on that. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone, unless a council member brings you up to ask you questions, or a council member, yeah, brings you up to ask you questions, then you've got a five-minute time limit, unless the council, by majority vote, grants you more time. Okay.
 Don't know how much that might be, but whatever they decide upon, that's what we will do. Do not engage a member of the city council or anybody in the public. No personal attacks.
 Stay on topic. We're talking about the waterline. If you get off topic, I will do my best to bring you back to topic. If you refuse to get back on topic, you will have to take your seat. So everybody clear on all this? Give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Thank you all. My name is Aaron Ederman. I live at 849 South Washington. Great points, great things to think about. Okay.
 One thing that I think that I'm noticing is that well I think the discrepancy in what we see from a planning side as opposed to what is in the water So
 Trying to make a more clear picture of what we have in the, what we see from the planning documents as opposed to the water plan, it seems sort of different in trying to figure out how we can actually make those more clear so it's more clear when these make sense.
 WONDER ABOUT IS WHERE THIS COMES OUT OF. IT SEEMS LIKE THIS IS FUNDS COMING OUT OF INFIL, A COST SHARE THAT WAS DESIGNATED FOR INFIL SPECIFICALLY AND I COULD BE WRONG ON THAT BUT I WONDER IF THAT'S THE RIGHT FUNDS THAT IT SHOULD COME OUT OF. THANKS. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THIS? NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU.
 Good evening. Sonia DeVitas, 127 East Connor. I have a question. Is there any city revenue generated from the water that will be provided? Or, like, is that different if we say we're going to offer them also fire? Do you know what that is? And is that? Tim? Well, I'm not sure I quite understand the question. The revenue would be from the sale of the water. That would be the only revenue from this water line.
 You've got to stay at the microphone. I mean, you've got four minutes left here, but you need to be up here. So my question is, does it pay for itself? It would take a long time to get a return on investment of $6,000 for one house. Okay. Okay.
 You could? All right. I should note that every house that gets connected out there will pay a water impact fee because even though they're outside the city, they are paying impact fees if they're connected to our system. And I think, though, are the water rates the same or different for people that connect outside the city? They're slightly higher for those who connect outside the city limits. I forgot about that. Okay, who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 Lorraine O'Neill, I've moved since I was up here last, I think, to 070 East Spinell Link over at the Cliffs, apartment number three. And I agree with the councilmen who spoke up in favor of this because sprawl, when you're trying to promote growth of a city, to label sprawl as a dirty word, that's contradictory. Right.
 And as the city attorney pointed out, the fact that the city is really already obligated to do this, I think it would be very foolish to oppose it. So thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay, Adela. I move we go to the second reading. We're at the second. We need a motion to go to the third. I move we go to the third reading. Thank you. You're welcome.
 I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $6,535 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,307. Okay, what final comments we got from the council? Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. The last 15 minutes I changed my mind a couple of times. But what got me settled was thinking about the math.
 I'm not talking about the revenue necessarily, I'm talking about the math of some of our assumptions here. I just completed a project, I installed a fire hydrant and it cost me about $8500. Fire hydrants have to be within about 150 feet by our fire code, or at least the way we interpret it, to be useful during an operation, which when I look at that map means that every single parcel would need a fire hydrant on it for it to be useful.
 And they're not required for single family development, and I can't really imagine that anybody would volunteer to spend $8,500 on a fire hydrant if they were to build a house out there. When Tim answered us that the reason for the request was for fire hydrants, I was ready to vote for it until I started thinking about that, because I just don't think it's realistic that fire hydrants are going to get installed unless it's the city that's doing the installation and paying for the mains. If we were going to pay for the mains, I might be all for it.
 Kit told us that we're not obligated to install the mains, we're only obligated to provide water service to the mains that are installed. So that kind of pulled me back from that a little bit and then I remembered the answer to my first question to Tim, which was how many homes would a four inch line be sufficient for? And he said it would be sufficient for the entire subdivision. So that puts me in a situation where unless we're actually going to get hydrants out there, and I don't think that's realistic,
 I don't see why we would pay for an 8-inch line. And I kind of maybe go a little bit farther. I don't really see why we would cost share on a 4-inch line either. That seems a little bit like $6,000 or whatever to the benefit of a single property owner today. Maybe if we could find a way to spread that across future developments and benefit more than one homeowner, I would do it. But that seems more like a giveaway. So based on all that, I don't think the fire hydrants are going to happen. And the 4-inch line is sufficient. I'm going to vote no.
 Okay. Anybody else? All right. If there's no other final comments, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. No. Greg? Yes. Mark? No. Kim? Yes. Eddie? No. Kenneth? Yes. Dennis? Yes. The mayor takes five affirmative votes to pass an ordinance. Do you care to vote? We'll vote yes. Then the ordinance passed. All right.
 Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6152 for approximately 23.76 acres, located at 4005 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. This is left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading if anyone would like to. John? Aye.
 I move that we go to the second reading.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6152 for approximately 23.76 acres located at 4005 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Okay. Garth.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. We don't have anything additional to add. I'm happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant is also here. Okay, would the applicant like to address the Council? Okay, all right. Mayor and Councilman, ladies, we were here at the last meeting.
 As I said at that time I reiterate— Well, I'm having some trouble hearing you. Did you pull up, Michael? Okay. Here we go. Sorry about that. All right. At the last meeting, I reiterate what I said then. I made my report. I actually concurred with what the city staff report said, and I concurred with it to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission, I think unanimously voted to forward it on to you.
 So we would respect your request if you would approve this tonight. And if you have any questions, we'd be happy to answer them. Thank you. What questions do we have, Mr. O'Hall? Anybody? All right. Anything from the council? Okay, we're going to open it up for public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless council member brings you back to ask your questions. You have a five-minute limit. And unless by majority vote of the council, they give you more time.
 If you do not engage anybody of the city council or the public, no personal tax on folks. Stay on topic. The topic is the rezoning of this property. If you get off topic, I will bring you back. If you refuse to stay on topic, then I'll have to ask you to take your seat. All right, those are the rules. Please give us your name and your address and who would like to be first.
 David Franks, F-R-A-N-K-S. You need to have that actually closer to you. Don't push the microphone away. It was kind of creepy to have it that close. We need to be able to hear you. Well, okay. Is history relevant? Mr. Franks, you need to stay on the topic of the rezoning. You're either in favor of the rezoning or you're not. Well, okay. Thank you. No pie charts.
 I do not live within the city limits of Fayetteville, but I do have a Fayetteville address, which apparently is why I was rudely awakened one Saturday morning by a robocall from a woman who made scurrilous and unfounded claims about the dangers of public restrooms should Fayetteville's civil rights ordinance pass, knowing all the while that there are other dangers in the world. I believe that my inclusion in this mass home invasion qualifies me to speak here as a concerned citizen.
 The voice of the robocall and her husband, who do not have a Fayetteville address... Mr. Frank, you're getting off on people's personalities here. Let's try and stay with the rezoning. Okay. Okay? I question the motives of the property owners. As I understand it, the motives of property owners, oh, say, people who want to open a bar with an outdoor concert area, their past history with...
 adhering to city standards is relevant to a citizen concern? Actually, I think under zoning considerations, I have already supplied a memo to the council three or four years ago, I think, that said like or dislike of an applicant is not relevant to a zoning issue. Well, it isn't a like or dislike of the applicant. And so it should be decided upon the uses proposed by this and whether those uses are compatible with the neighborhood.
 uh past history of whether this person has uh you don't like what the person did uh i don't think that's really relevant it's really what the uses are and whether you object to the uses that are being proposed on this property as opposed to what can be allowed to be used right now which would be traffic safety compatibility of the neighborhood even if you think it's going to cause i think in some instances undue flooding which causes
 damage to other people's properties. Does usage of the property include putting businesses on it that might or might not discriminate against certain people? I don't think that would be, I don't think we can get into that. No, again, you must look at just the permitted uses that would be on there, not what the proposal might be or might not be, but what would be allowed to be on that property under the new proposed zoning as opposed to what's allowed right now.
 Mr. Frank, you're beginning to run. Your time is, you're down to two minutes. So you need to. Well, all righty. I can see one of three. Well, given the history behind these owners, regardless of what they do, Fayetteville should keep an eye on them. Because they already have a history of not being too friendly to the way Fayetteville is run. I see...
 It's probably that their uses will tend to undermine many of the things that the city has tried to accomplish. I'm not going to say they shouldn't get the rezoning based on like or dislike. I just think Fayetteville should be careful about keeping an eye on them, more careful than they are about keeping an eye on themselves. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Wood. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council here? Or what conversations would you like to have on where you want to go here? Okay, John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This is a fairly routine rezoning request. The planning...
 committee has already granted another rezoning of land that's up the mountain that has a slope. This is near the road. The land is not sloping very much there at all. I think we should probably grant this very easily, and I don't think we should get in personalities. I think if it meets the rules, whether we like it or not, whether we like the people behind it or not,
 We should grant within the rules. I think we've established that challenge. Sure. And anyway, that's all I have to say right now. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Adele, I'll be doing it. Yes, Mayor. My concern was what we heard at the last meeting about all of the trees on the mountain being cut and that our –
 um canopy requirements would be met with a i believe it eight foot border around this acreage that causes me great concern this is one of our last beautiful mountains and i think that we would be causing more drainage problems in this part of our city as we've seen in other places where we've cut
 big trees so i um i know we have we have canopy regulations but i do not um agree that we should allow all the the uh trees on this beautiful mountain to be cut and and maintain only an eight foot strip around the the border of the um the property so i need to um
 Here's some more explanation and more discussion, but at this time, I am not in favor of handling this beautiful property in this manner. Okay. Sarah? Thank you.
 Thank you. Adela echoes the concerns that I'm hearing from the community. I've been contacted by several constituents that are interested in what type of landscape and buffers that will be there between this proposed development and existing homes.
 on the mountain so perhaps if our development services director could talk a little bit about what the developer would be required to do in terms of maintaining tree preservation dealing with stormwater and any type of buffer this is by right zoning requests from the RA residential agricultural district to urban thoroughfare district
 It does not waive any storm drainage requirements. It does not waive any tree preservation requirements. They're all in effect and they will all be required as we go forward.
 And just for the benefit of the public watching or listening, can you elaborate a little bit on what those are just generally as far as percentage of tree canopy we require preserved? The UT Urban Thoroughfare District requires 15%. There has been, I almost hesitate to bring this up because there's no agreement, there are no easement, but there has been preliminary discussions about
 possibly meeting that requirement through a dedicated easement that is in purple on this map.
 That's one way they can meet that requirement, but it's not the only way. And it's also not the end of the discussion regarding what happens to the rest of the site. It has to go through planning if the proposed is subdivided. It has to go through site planning through the Planning Commission. And all of our goals and regulations regarding storm drainage and tree preservation, we're
 are all in effect. Thank you. Carl. It sounds like we're all having essentially the same concern over the canopy. The easement that we've talked about here looks kind of familiar to me. I think just a couple of weeks ago we talked about a property that did something, took a very similar approach a couple decades ago.
 And I don't think anyone was too thrilled with the way that the old JD China restaurant took everything all the way back to their easement line just to then come back after a change of owner and try to deal with that differently. And I worry that we may be setting ourselves up for a repeat performance on that. And I know this is also not the first large chunk of tree canopy that we've talked about recently.
 But I think there's a fundamental difference between looking at a commercial development and a place to put people, as we did in our most recent one over at Rolling Hills, where I think the arguments there were substantially different. So the trees, I guess, weigh a little more here for me than they may have in that other discussion. Okay. Mark. Okay.
 I'm going to reiterate something that Council Member Smith said. We had the experience where there was property that was split off at JD China, where they had a buffer that met their tree canopy preservation requirement, and then it changed ownership and it came back, and then there was a request to rezone that.
 WE ONLY NEEDED 15% OF WHAT WAS ALREADY GUARANTEED OF 15% OF THE PREVIOUS DEVELOPMENT. AND THAT IS MY CONCERN HERE. THE PREVIOUS SLIDE THAT WE SAW WITH THE CONCENTRATION OF THE BUFFER, THE BUFFER IS ACTUALLY QUITE NICE. IT'S GOING TO OFFER SOME PROTECTION, WHICH IS QUITE NICE, BUT MY CONCERN IS THE CONCENTRATION
 utilization in the future if this was split off and sold then it could be split off and then there would only be 15% of that that's left protected under the tree preservation plan so I that's my concern urban thoroughfare
 I think does have an appropriate use in this area. It's just the way that this is set up is as if we're repeating history where we had to look at this, and I don't think that we could forget that situation. Thanks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I wasn't so beefed with the thing that we just reviewed with the JD China and the lot split with the easement issue.
 I came back to the council and thought they had a right to do that, and I thought we were fairly well inoculated against that. But I do have a different concern here, and I want to ask a question of our development services director. How deep is that lot, roughly?
 Probably, this is probably about 800 feet. Okay. This may be a little more. Okay. So my thing is I feel like this is a little bit too much too fast. Everything inside the shape there, everything inside the outline is going to go to seven stories being allowed. I don't have any expectation that it would actually get constructed at seven stories across the whole thing, but—
 That's a heck of an allowance to do across the whole site. I would prefer to see a scheme that was what I might call laminated, where we had urban thoroughfare, maybe the first 150 feet or so, against Martin Luther King Boulevard in an intermediate zone.
 from there to the back of the property. Maybe that's RIU or Neighborhood Services General or something that's very flexible but a step down in intensity. I think that gets to the tree cover issue in a meaningful way. That's not preservation, but it would require more of the canopy to be preserved. I think it would still allow the uses, and it would avoid this concern I have about that.
 allowing seven stories all of a sudden on such a huge piece of property, even 800 feet away from the road. Okay. Sarah. Thank you. I would agree with Council Member Petty's comments. Just because I do feel like we have a responsibility to –
 be conservative with the tree canopy and the development process that is going on here. I do think that urban thoroughfare is very appropriate along that street frontage, but I would like to see some sort of stepped back scheme. And I'm uncomfortable approving anything based on this alleged promise of this residential agriculture buffer. We have nothing, there's nothing that holds them to that.
 So, I think when we have a plan that's more firm, I would be willing to support some urban thoroughfare along MLK, but again with some sort of a phased or step-back approach to transition up to that mountain. John? I'll give it one more try, Mayor. Our developer, our director of development has told us.
 that the tree canopy rules will still apply to this entire property. If we don't like the way the applicant is proposing to meet his obligations under our tree canopy rules, perhaps it's time for us to change those rules. I don't think it's fair for us to come in and say to an applicant, yes, you're meeting the rules, but we don't like it in any way, so we're not going to approve your development. I think that wouldn't be equitable.
 So I would encourage us to grant this request, although I'm not terribly optimistic from the comments I've heard tonight. I would ask us to put aside other issues that might be in the back of our minds and just do it strictly on a basis of, is he going to meet the rules? And I don't see how he wouldn't meet the rules. The hillside development rules will still apply. The canopy rules will still apply. And whoever develops this.
 whether it be the person making this request or someone else, has to meet all those rules. And it's just like our director of development said, we have a long way to go. We have a lot of hoops to jump through before anything gets built here. Large-scale development, planning, lot splits, all sorts of things can happen. And every step along the way, all those rules have to be met. So I'd encourage you to vote for this.
 Thank you. Okay. Kyle? I think we have to remember that we're not looking at a specific development here. We're looking at choosing which rules to apply to this land because we have different rules for different zones of town. And there's a certain set of rules on here now, and I'm absolutely sure that if it were developed they would be held to the rules of tree preservation under residential agriculture. We're being asked to change the rules.
 I think we have to make sure that if we change the rules, we change something that's right for that land. I think what I'm hearing here is that urban thoroughfare that deep is the wrong set of rules to hold any development to in this property. Okay. Thank you. We're on the second reading. Is that right? Yeah. We haven't even gone to the third reading yet and I did not know what you all wanted to do. I might say something about that.
 first i just wanted to um maybe as quick as i could reject the idea that this might be about anything else than the development requirements uh uh i want to signal just as clear as i can that i'm ready to vote for uh for the the plan i outlined um to to reduce the requirements and and create the the the new allowances that urban thoroughfare would offer for this section that's close to martin luther king i'm eager to do that
 On a scale of 1 to 10, how excited I am, it's an 11.
 And that includes a plan that would do a lesser zone on the remainder of the property with the RA held back as it's already been described. I'd make an amendment now, but I don't want to run afoul of the applicant's planned uses. And I would request that maybe if the... It seems like the council has given off, at least some members of the council are not giving off a signal here. If there is a laminated proposal...
 If there is a laminated proposal that still allows the proposed uses, I would hope that could be worked out with the applicant and I could be excited to vote in two weeks. I'm very excited about this reading.
 Our city plan is definitely a guide and not a straitjacket, and council should use it as such a guide for your decisions. One thing the Planning Commission looked at was that designation.
 of city neighborhood, the blue designation goes very deep. Now I hear logical arguments for not going that deep, but I just wanted you to know that it does go to the road here. They were kind of following that guide when they made that recommendation. But that doesn't mean that council in your legislative authority can't choose to refine
 do i quickly respond to that sure um i i appreciate that i think one of the things that we maybe need to talk more about in all these meetings is uh you know we got city neighborhood area and residential neighborhood area and agriculture area and a couple others on the future land use map and we've got maybe uh four times as many zones as we have future land use map um designation so i'm i'm pretty comfortable
 with this laminated idea that it still meets the future land use map intent and i mean i'm ready to support a mix of uses in the entire boundary that's drawn i'm ready to support uh diverse housing options and fairly intense housing options but what i'm not quite ready to support is an allowance for seven story development across the whole thing my camp comments weren't uh met to argue against that rationale i was just wanting the council to have that information okay hi
 had the same concerns and the same concerns on the tree canopy as well. Well, we are on the second reading. If you want to hold it two weeks and see maybe something can be worked out. I won't certainly be fair in this process, and I don't think anybody on this council is taking any personal, you know, making any personal stands against anybody. So I'll bring you back tomorrow.
 clarification, I hope. I think I understood someone say eight feet buffer in the beginning. There is no eight foot buffer agreed to. There's eight acres that in our planning commission meeting, they asked us if we would consider a buffer in the rear on the hillside and leave the trees there between the folks up on top.
 and the commercial down below. And that's where this comes from. But the area that you see in the purple and there's a couple other little knob that sticks out exceeds that which is required by the city for the zoning that's been requested and the zoning that exists by quite a bit. And that's why this is like this. We thought we had something already worked out that staff, planning commission,
 We hoped that the council would see that that's what they wanted, was to leave that buffer in the back on the hillside, and that's what we did. Now, that doesn't say we're going to clear-cut everything down front. It gives, I think, City Attorney Meekton last meeting, it allows for it, but it's practically impossible to cut everything down, I think, up front, but there might be some nice trees that are left, but I'm just saying we did what we was asked to do, and we also met the
 your city plan for future zoning, that's on your file. And your city staff confirmed that and they thought we were doing a good job and I hope that we had. If you're talking about doing some modifications, I wish we'd have had it on before this meeting. It's been on the docket for quite a while so we could have been called.
 and talk to and so forth. But anyway, I would again—I feel like we have already accomplished everything that was requested through the staff, planning commission, and even to hear
 Again, I'm ready to answer any questions you may have. Thank you Mayor. Okay, so you don't want to work on anything else? I didn't say we wouldn't work, I just thought we already got to that point. I really think that we met the requirements of your deal, but if somebody got some comments we'd like to listen to them.
 I would say, Mr. Milholland, there have been comments made and if you lose this rezoning then you can't come back with the same rezoning for a year.
 And I think that with some of the comments I heard from the aldermen, it would probably behoove you all to take a little time and get with planning and see if some of those comments can be addressed. Because a lot of the uses, in fact they weren't complaining about the uses, but the intensity of that farther away from the road, probably not necessary for your project and gives us
 Plant City Council a little bit of disquiet and they make the decision. So I would listen to them very carefully. Yeah, Mr. Mulholland, what I was trying to get across to you is that you could work a couple weeks on trying to bring something else. Or I'm sure they'll be prepared to vote tonight. We have met the planning commission staff, the planning staff and the planning commission. If there's someone here who can raise their hand and say we'll meet you at the planning office on a certain day, we'll be there.
 We'll be happy to let it go another month, but we'd like some responses of what you want. Always have. So you don't mind leaving it on this reading and being able to work with the planning commission before the, I mean the planning department, excuse me, before the next meeting? If there's someone here who wants to have an input, talk to us.
 We've always been available, but we'll do it again for another 30 days if that's what it takes. We're talking two weeks, Mr. Muller. Two weeks, okay. Next city council meeting. Two weeks in. We're just trying to give you some time to work something out. Please set a time when you want me at the planning staff. We'll be there. Okay. Well, let's leave it on this. You want to leave it on this reading, council? All right. All right, and we'll take it up in two weeks. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Moving right along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to approve the application of Tanner Bassett on behalf of Roost Motor Club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Federal at 3582 North Arkansas Highway 112. Okay. This is the Roost Motor Club private club permit? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 Whereas, Act 1112 of 2007, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arc Star Code Annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs in the State of Arkansas, requires that the City Council approve, by ordinance, an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit an application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves the application of Tanner Bassett on behalf of the Roost Motor Club, a copy of which is attached to the staff memo, for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 3582 North Highway 112 under conditions set forth in Section 2.
 Section 2 of this approval is subject to the following conditions which must be satisfied prior to the issuance of the City Private Club Permit. Number 1, the business owner or manager shall contact the Fayetteville Police Department's community-oriented policing division to schedule training for staff to properly identify fraudulent identifications.
 2. A multi-camera surveillance system must be installed on the inside of the business to provide video surveillance of the main entrance, exit, bar area, and registers. 3. The business owner or manager shall provide a quote good neighbor unquote policy to surrounding businesses and residents of the club, if any. 4. The Arkansas Alcoholic Beverage Control Permit holder
 associated with the ruse motor club shall obtain the minimum training requirements as a private security officer as to find an aca 17-40-208 and shall receive a training certificate a Copy of the training certificate shall be provided to the Fayetteville Police Department special events division supervisor Okay G
 I don't really know what I can add that Kit didn't say. Basically this is an application from the Roos Motor Club for a private club to be located at 3582 North Highway 112. They provided us all the information that we've asked for. Those what the stipulations that Kit read some of those are like the good neighbor policy that's actually a requirement of having ABC permits and we've kind of just copied some of that language so even if that wasn't in our stipulations or our ordinance
 Once they got their ABC permit, they still had to abide by that good neighbor policy. The rest of the items, the camera, the eight hours of training, those are just what have become our normal stipulations for a private club application. I'd be happy to answer any questions. All right. Kyle. I think this is the first one of these we've done outside the entertainment district since the rules changed, or the...
 I think that's correct. We've done one maybe a month or so ago that might have been right on the boundary of the entertainment district. But, yeah, this is definitely the one outside of downtown. Are these the same additional conditions we've asked from everybody else? And Matt.
 Yeah, so I like all the stipulations, but I do have some questions about the private security officer training. Could you describe what that is in a little bit more detail? That's not a private investigator. Right. So the state offers different levels of security officer training, and I think our first idea was to make them a licensed security guard. And what that provides is eight hours of training. It talks about use of force, when a private security officer can make an arrest, and what that does is it gives them a chance to make a decision.
 And then there's specific training, whether that security guard is going to be at a bar or a motel, there's specific training about that. But we quickly learned that you can't have that license unless you're working for a private security company. So the idea now is just for the holder of the ABC permit to attend the eight hours of training, not make him have,
 the security officer license through the state, but just 10 to 8 hours of training. And that way he can train his bouncers and some of his people how to better deal with disturbances and what they're allowed to do and those type of things when a situation becomes volatile in their bar. Okay, that makes sense. Are there frequent trainings available? Yes, there's several people throughout the state and all you have to do is contact one of those persons that's authorized to do that training for the state and they set that training up. Okay, thanks.
 Okay, any other questions from the council on this? All right, what public comment do we have? Let me go through the rules again. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless a city council member brings you back up to ask you questions. We have a five-minute limit. Unless by majority vote of the council, they give you more time. Don't engage any member of the city council or council
 or anyone from the public, any personal attacks, stay on topic. If you get off topic, I'll try and bring you back to the topic. If you don't, then I will have to ask you to take your seat. Everybody understands the rules. Who would like to be first? And maybe the applicant should be first? I apologize, yes. I should have already done that. But the applicant will have to approach and say something to the counsel.
 Okey-dokey, fine. I guess not. All right, so we will start with the public comment again. Who would like to be first? Please give us your name and address. Okay, I will bring it back to the city council. Matthew. Yeah, I guess I have a little bit more on the private security officer thing. Just from a practical standpoint, I'm completely fine with the requirement, but I wonder if we might administer it a little bit –
 leniently with regards to how quickly they can get it. The last private club permit we did was actually a private club that I'm one of the landlords for and that was the first club that we imposed this requirement on and they've had a bear of a time getting the training. There's only one person licensed to provide the training in this part of the state.
 It seems like a very low number can provide it across the rest of the state. And the last two times they've had it scheduled, there are so few requests, they're the only ones that are asking for it to be scheduled. And it's been canceled both times. So even now we're three months in to that permit, maybe two and a half months in, and they can't get a training scheduled. So I'm fine with the requirement, but I wonder if we might enforce it in a manner that allows –
 them to open as long as they get it within a certain year and maybe they're violated within a year or within six months or something like that and then maybe we do violations afterwards. My intent here is to provide an opportunity for all these private club holders to batch their trainings together so that it makes it more worthwhile for somebody who's certified to provide one of these workshops because right now it just seems like there's not enough demand for somebody to actually take the time to spend eight hours with someone.
 You could certainly move to amend subsection 4 of the requirements, where, as it says, as a private security officer, you could say within six months of the issuance of the alcohol permit.
 Chief, this is a brand new requirement. We've never had it before. What do you think? Yeah, I mean, the situation you're describing was kind of a learning curve for all of us, I think, and I think it has been a little bit of a hurdle to get over. I sure don't have a problem us extending that time a little bit, especially, you know, I mean, I'd really like to see it before they open, but if they're making some attempt and the training keeps getting canceled, I sure don't have a problem extending that three months, six months, or something like that as long as they can show us that they were attempting to get it and just have been unable to get it scheduled. Mm-hmm.
 I guess between the two of you, is this something we need to amend the ordinance on, or is this something we could do with maybe the mayor and the chief to do with the policy? No, you need to amend the ordinance. The ordinance is going to control. And right now, the way I would read it is that they must do it before. That's a condition of getting this permit. And so until they have accomplished that, then the permit would not be issued. So you would need to say on number four, as a private security officer,
 Within six months of the issuance of the permit or some other time limit after the issuance of the permit Okay, well then I'll make a motion to amend. I think it's stipulation number six to allow Permit or to require permit holders to get the the specified training within six months of their opening date. Okay, so the amendment is Stipulation to get your training in six months of the permit, right? Correct. Okay, so
 Everybody? OK, we've got a whole laundry list of folks here. All right, Adela. I want to second that motion. OK, very good. Thank you. Matthew? Oh, I'm sorry. You're killing me. There goes the list. But the list is gone. Everybody had their holidays early. It's magic. Anyway, yeah, it's magic. OK, we have the amendment.
 What discussion do we have on the amendment? Anything? Okay. A public comment do we have on the amendment? I don't have to go through the rules again I'm sure. All right, I'm going to break back to the council. Sarah? What is the mechanism that we have to hold them accountable and how will we be checking back with them in six months? I mean I support the idea of this as long as we're following up and making sure it happens.
 That was a question we had when we first started this. How would we know when they'd had the training, who's responsible for getting the training? So that's why we attached it to the ABC permit. So anytime anybody changed the ABC permit, then we get notification of that through the ABC. So anytime that happens, we would know that person would have the six-month period of time to get that training. We'll handle that end of it. Okay, thank you. Okay, Tom.
 I guess this is kind of on the permit applicant, but I would hate to see somebody wait around six months, try to schedule it, and then run into the same problem. I think I'd still like to see some sort of, like you were saying, a show that they've attempted to get it scheduled on the front end, and then so that six months really is a grace period rather than a waiting period.
 Yeah, I'm not sure. That may complicate things more than it's worth. I mean, obviously, I don't think we're going to want to be in the business of shutting someone down once they get their bar open in the late six months. So...
 However, I will say that they have to get a city permit usually every year showing they paid the taxes and everything else. If they hadn't paid the taxes, we shut them down. So this is just another requirement that they've got to follow what we have said. And no one likes to shut businesses down without a doubt, but we have in the past when they don't follow the rules. And since they have to go back to accounting every year to show that they've been paying their taxes.
 to renew their license, I think that's certainly something we can look at at that point in time too when they go back for renewal. And the other thing is, I don't think the chief should have to hold their hands. No. You know, they're running an establishment, they've got lots of rules to follow, not just our rules, and we shouldn't be over there having an argument, have you got your permit yet? Have you taken your training?
 You know, I'm not sure what the procedure is for pulling someone's business license. I'm not sure if that comes in front of this board or not. It's not just a business license. Their alcohol permit can be taken if they have not paid their taxes. So obviously if someone didn't get that and it come time, you all would hear that and have the opportunity to weigh in on that at that point. Yes. I know I would at the office, get to weigh in on it.
 Way before it made it in here. Yes. Sarah. It's this one down here. Oh, I'm sorry. So, I'm sorry, Chief. But when they take this training, does it have to be specific to this area? Could they take it somewhere else in the state? No, they could take it anywhere in the state by one of these persons that's authorized by the state police to do it. So they could piggyback with some other part of the state. That's correct. That's what I have to do sometimes when I have my training. I don't.
 It's not always in Fayetteville, so I don't think that's unreasonable to ask for that. But I really don't, you know, to Matthew's point, I'm not sure if these are regularly scheduled or it's on an ask-needed basis. I don't know if you would run into the same problem in Little Rock if you called the person in Little Rock. I don't know if he's going to wait until he tries to get a group and do a group. You know, it probably doesn't make much sense from a business standpoint to do one person at a time as they call you.
 But you could definitely do it in other locations in the state and get the same training. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. Anything else on the amendment? Council Member Boccia or something else? No. Okay. That's okay.
 Let's just check. Okay. If there's not any further discussion, everybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Just for the amendment. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now we're back to the ordinance itself. We are on the first reading of the amended ordinance.
 And so, Adele? I move we move to the second reading. Mark? I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Mark, did you put the second thing in? Thank you. All right. Adele, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Grimes? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 in order to approve the application of tanner bassett on behalf of the roast roost motor club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of fayetteville at 3582 north arkansas highway 112. okay adele i move we go to the third and final reading mark i will second that okay we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final rule sunday would you please call the roll yes
 Right, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. An ordinance approved the application of Tanner Bassett on behalf of the Roost Motor Club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 3582 North Arkansas Highway 112. Okay, any final comments from the council on this?
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number two, a resolution to authorize a professional services agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 18-02 in the amount of not to exceed $229,222 for a stormwater utility feasibility study and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 As you all know, in 2017, we had a very large storm event that was very devastating to many properties here and lots of damage, lots of flooded streets, etc. And so as we...
 We evaluated that, went through that, and we determined about $15 to $20 million worth of improvements that are needed to kind of get our storm drainage system up to standard. At the time, we talked about funding sources.
 The upcoming bond issue is something that we need to be able to fund to kind of catch up. But we also talked about a stormwater utility to create a system, a funding source, so that we wouldn't get behind like this again. We'd be able to have a funding source that would be stable and perpetual and would allow us to maintain our system properly.
 So in August of 2017, the council recognized this need and approved a resolution expressing the city's intent to move forward with the stormwater feasibility study. Since that time, we've worked on a request for qualifications, received proposals from seven firms. CH2M Hill was the top firm selected. We've been negotiating the contract with CH2M Hill over the years.
 past few months.
 And we're now ready to present that contract to the council for your approval Just to give you a little bit of information about what the the process will be what this what this scope will be Really kind of two major parts one is the development of the the stormwater program costs So looking at our operation and maintenance cost capital cost permitting regulation regulatory items
 all of those things, and looking at what our extent and level of service is
 could be with the stormwater utility. There will be some points along the way that policy decisions will be needed from the council to make those decisions about what that extended level of service should be. Based on that level of service, the second part of that is the fee that would be required to provide that level of service.
 So, the consultant will do both of those items, will provide that information to the council for ultimately to make a decision about the rate versus the level of service. The other big item, the big part of that will be sprinkled throughout this process is the public and stakeholder engagement. We have a very robust process planned to help inform the public and our major stakeholders
 about what a stormwater utility could do for them, what the cost of that would be, what the benefits would be, et cetera. Looking at the schedule...
 The plan is at this point some meetings, chartering meetings just going to get started in late June, but then most of the summer will be spent by the consultant gathering data and analyzing that data, working on that cost of service. So as we get later into the fall,
 As we get later into the fall there will be a series of meetings where they will present those results to the city council and to stakeholders. Ultimately in spring of 2019 we'll be ready to start talking about that final level of service, what the fee would be related to that and if the council decides to move forward
 with the stormwater utility, there would then be the implementation of the utility and all the things that have to be done as part of that. We're very excited to get this study moving forward. I think one other thing I want to say and we'll talk about the budget just a little bit, but regardless of what the end result of this is, the information that will be gathered and the cost of service,
 The level of service that we talk about will be useful information as we go forward to really have a better handle of what our stormwater system is here in Fayetteville. The cost at the time that we presented the resolution in 2017 was estimated at $2.
 $200,000. We do have a proposed fee of $229,222 after we negotiated all of the details. So we also are requesting a budget adjustment to increase that $200,000 budget by $29,498. With that, I'll answer questions. What questions do we have, Chris, on this council? I know this has been...
 You've been discussing this for a long time, so I know it's been to the Water and Sewer Committee a few times, Mark? Yes. This has been at the forefront of discussion on how to move forward with this at the Water and Sewer Committee because we know that there are infrastructure situations that we need to deal with.
 And then I also was on the selection committee, and I want to say we had excellent proposals, but with our four-year relationship with CH2M Hill, or CH2Hill, whatever they go by. They even go by Jacobs these days. They had an insight.
 on the community engagement that we have here in Fayetteville. And I think that the community engagement is going to be a big part of this as well as looking at the –
 EXTENT OF SERVICES THAT WE CAN OFFER WITH THIS. THEY ALSO HAD AN INSIGHT ON THE STATUTES THAT WE WILL HAVE TO MEET IN OUR LEGISLATION BECAUSE SOME OTHER CITIES HAVE HAD TO DEAL WITH SOME LEGAL ISSUES AS THEY MOVED FORWARD. AND SO THESE ARE SOME THINGS THAT I THOUGHT WERE IMPORTANT. AND SO IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT, WE'RE GETTING.
 this additional support, not just looking at a rate, but looking at community engagement. They were very adamant about that, as well as the integration of legal expertise on how to move forward within the state of Arkansas. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm excited to see this come to fruition, to see us move that ball down the field forward
 I have constituents in my ward that keep a pallet of sandbags in their driveway. If it rains more than an inch or two, they're getting water in their house. During our prior discussions on this topic, I think we all agreed that we would make people who are getting water in their house a priority over those people getting water in their yard or on their street. I would think that people getting water in their house should get the highest priority in our efforts to protect them.
 bring about good drainage in our city. I think I told you all the story when I was single, my house, we'd just open the back door and sweep the water right on through. But a French drain in the front yard solved that problem. My wife wouldn't put up with it. Single guys tend to be more tolerant of those things. So I'm very familiar with flooding and water in the house, and I'd like to agree again that we'll make those people a priority.
 Anything else from the council? All right, up there. Thank you. I'm really excited to see this moving forward. And I would like to compliment CH2M on their excellent proposal. It was very thorough, very professional. And I think that the process that they outlined is exactly what we need to be striving for in this community.
 But I'm really excited about the stormwater utility because I think that there is a perception that water is free. And water is actually very expensive and the impacts of water can be extraordinarily significant. I live down in the flood plain, a house, two houses down from me actually was lifted up off its foundation and rotated about two inches. Which doesn't seem like a lot until it's your house not sitting on foundation anymore because of flooding issues.
 So, you know, I think that this is going to do a lot to help new development pay for the cost of the infrastructure that it takes to support that development. I think that this can be a great tool to help us incentivize low impact development strategies and be smarter about how we deal with stormwater. Yeah.
 And, you know, overall, I think it's just helping us keep a better budget as a city and be very responsible with our resource use and having the people who are creating the problems help us.
 Pay for the solution. So I think this is an excellent proposal and we'll do great things for our community and particularly for my ward, which has so much area in the floodplain and so many people that are impacted. But I do agree with Council Member Latour that people with water in their homes is the areas of the highest priority. But then I would also add to that people whose neighborhoods are
 are inundated to the point that emergency vehicles can't access them because we have a lot especially in that big that big last flooding incident we had quite a few neighborhoods that were inaccessible by emergency vehicles and that is a safety hazard and you know the three things life safety welfare those are our two three biggest responsibilities on this council and this will help us address those thank you okay
 Adele. Yes, Mayor. I'm delighted to see us coming forward with this. As many of you know, there have been lots of complaints in our Ward 1 about storm drainage problems. So I'm delighted to see this happen, and the sooner the better. And I'm delighted that CH2M Hill
 or Jacob, excuse me, is now going to be handling this study. So thank you so much to our engineering department for bringing this to our attention. Thank you. Yes. No, fix them too. When everybody gets done, I'll wait to make a motion to approve. Okay. All right.
 Now we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless the city council brings you back to ask questions. You have a five-minute limit unless the majority of the council gives you more time. Don't engage anybody at the city council or in the public. No personal attacks. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will bring you back to the topic. If you do not come back to the topic, I will ask you to take a seat. So who would like to be first? Give us your name and address.
 good evening mayor will dockery 4149 west brad street mr mayor i love fayetteville for myriad reasons just like you but one of my reasons is the topography nestled here at the edge of the boston mountains in the ozark range fayetteville has never been short of ridges and vistas these same mountains full of churdy limestone sandstone and shale also heavily influence the hydrography of the area when mid latitude cyclones and convective fronts drop rain in our fair city the hills and mountains channel it into streams draining it into the white and illinois rivers
 With our continued growth boom now nearing three decades, dramatic changes to the landscape have occurred. We see these urban changes most strikingly when we get heavy rainfall. No longer do we have large swaths of permeable land full of second growth forests supplemented by fields and local farms. We now have covered them with impervious surfaces of parking lots, roads, and rooftops. These alterations increase the velocity and discharge, increase flood occurrence and reoccurrence.
 and increase the maximum of floods. Furthermore, they decrease our streams channel depth and flow and decrease the lag time between rainfall and flow. This is all from geologist Dr. Amanda Keene-Zibert, who did a study on Fayetteville's mud and Skull Creeks from 2000 to 2007. In layman's terms, the way we have done urbanization here makes it flood more often with less water and the floods are worse. So I applaud the city for bringing forward this resolution, this forward thinking,
 With our parks bearing an ever-increasing burden of being our permeable spaces, 21 events since 1990 where the daily rainfall exceeded three or more inches, which if you recall is the amount initially reported of what happened in Ellicott City, Maryland this past week,
 So, 21 events of that happening since 1990 and excessive damage from 1% chance floods in 2011 and 2017, stormwater containment will be an important part of protecting our city's future. Let's not wait for a tragedy like Ellicott City in Maryland to happen or the landslides in California to happen before we address this. Let's join our city's forefathers who in 1974 passed an ordinance, Ordinance 2018, an ordinance to limit and control flooding and flood damage. And one last thing.
 Let us please be mindful that while there are strict engineering solutions made of concrete and pipes, that there are also other stormwater management solutions that are a win-win-win for the community. Solutions that allow for recreation, creation, and maintenance of wildlife habitats and protect our drinking water sources all while managing our stormwater needs. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Romaine O'Neill, 207-0 East Pinella Lane, Department 3. Generally speaking, the feasibility study may sound on the surface like a good idea, and most of the times whenever I oppose something that the city council is considering, it's because of financial concerns, and that's my concern here.
 Everyone who lives in this city and has lived in this city for any length of time knows what the problems are. So wasting money on a study whenever you already know where the problems are seems a little bit foolish to me. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes. Do you approve the resolution? Yes.
 Sarah? Second that. Motion and second to approve resolution. Is there any final comments from the council? Well I would like to say that this is something that we've been talking about since I was on the city council in 2009. Adele remembers that we've come through a couple of free city council meetings in that
 We talked about the stormwater utilities back then and it's just taken what 17, 18 years to get from the first time they started talking about it until now. And it's an amazing moment I think that we're actually looking into something that's going to help determine the future of this city as far as drainage and water.
 stormwater runoff because I've seen since I've been on the council year after year, it continues to get worse and worse and worse.
 and we've seen flooding all over town. And I applaud this council for taking this up and the Water and Sewer Committee and everybody in the staff that's worked on this to get us this far. And I certainly want to commend you all. This is really one of those historic moments we're doing here in this city. So thank you all for that very much. All right, if there's nothing else, Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And I might add, I am going to probably set up an ad hoc committee between the water and sewer and the transportation, probably two of each and then because this affects not only just water and sewer and runoff, it affects transportation as well. So I'm going to set up a special committee ad hoc committee.
 I don't know how long that will last, and I haven't figured out who to put on it yet. But other than that, we're moving right along with that as well. Anyway, thank you all very much. All right, the next order of business we have is C3. And this is not an addition, but we have some numbers in it now that we didn't have on your agenda.
 So then it reads a resolution to award bid number 18-27 to authorize a contract with NAB Host Construction Incorporated in the amount of $2,793,590.50 for the construction of a portion of Highway 112 Maple Street between Razorback Road and Garland Avenue to approve a project contingency in the amount of $280,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is a project that we've been working on for several years now, trying to find a way to get the funding available for the project. In 2014, we secured $2.4 million in federal aid funding for the project, and that was for the section between Garland Avenue and Razorback Road, the section of Maple Street that essentially runs north of the Razorback Stadium.
 So, um, that portion of the project was bid by the State Highway Department in 2015. They actually bid it twice. Uh, the first bid was about 4.2 million. The second was about 4.5 million. Uh, so substantially higher than the amount of funding that we had available. Uh, so after that time we began discussing with the Highway Department ways to get this project done.
 They agreed to provide additional funding for the project. In return, the city agreed to take over the highway, the street, once the work is complete.
 So, we took the project over, we worked with the U of A and they actually provided the redesign for the project. We added the overlay of both Razorback Road from Maple Street down to Leroy Pond and the overlay of Highway 112 Garland Avenue between Maple and Maple Street.
 and Weddington. So the overlays of that have been added. So we essentially have a new facility all the way from Leroy Pond through Weddington as part of this project. So we put this out for bid and received bids on June 1st. The low bidder was Nabholz Construction in the amount of $2,793,590.50.
 They are also the contractor for some of the work going on north of the stadium, so they're ready to go to work.
 And I apologize for bringing these numbers to you in such a short time after we received bids, but we do want to try to hit the summer window with the U of A campus as much as possible. So we're working very hard with the State Highway Department to get approval on their side. So we would request approval of this contract tonight. We'll start working on the paperwork and get the contractor moving forward as quickly as possible. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Christian Council? Everybody good? All right. What public comment do we have? Everybody just want to turn to the microphone. Okay.
 unless city council brings you back for to ask questions five minute limit don't engage a member of the city council or public any personal tax stay on topic if you get off topic i will bring you back to topic if you refuse to get on topic then i'll have to ask you to take your seat so who would like to be first and please give us your name and address okay well i'll bring it back to the city council john may i move we pass the resolution adela i move we second i second with that
 We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Chris, I want to thank you for your work on this. Well done. And Transportation Committee, I know, reviewed that, so thank you all. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all.
 Number four, resolution to award RFP 18-04 to authorize contract with RDG, IA Incorporated, DBA, RDG Planning and Design in the amount of $153,066 for the development of the Highway 71B corridor plan to approve project contingency in the amount of $46,934 and to approve the budget adjustment. Garner, I believe you have this.
 Yes, sir. Mayor and Council staff that's working on this project is very pleased and excited to bring this forward for your consideration. We think it's an important project and it starts a process that could lead to repositioning the highway that runs through our city like most American cities.
 We have a highway that kind of separates the city, and this project is an ongoing effort. It's not new. Fayetteville has been working on this for some time to start addressing that. So I did a fairly extended presentation at your agenda committee meeting, and we had a good discussion. I'm going to do sort of an abbreviated recap of that presentation.
 As you'll recall, the original proposal was from North Street to the northern city limits on February 20. You added the two sections, Archibald Yeld and then Takeda Springs, so now we have a northern study area and a southern study area plus Archibald Yeld.
 All of these corridors that divide are cities that have grown in a strip pattern since World War II. They not only divide the entire city, but they are also the intersection of so many of Fayetteville's goals.
 goal of multimodal transportation can start to be addressed, economic development. Underused properties all along this corridor that can be redeveloped and added to our tax base. There has been a citizen committee and a grant that looked at the corridor for active and healthy living. It is so visible, it is such an obvious place to start addressing that issue. Image and livability.
 Sustainability and low impact development, again the visibility is just a great opportunity to start demonstrating state of the art solutions. And lastly but certainly not least, safety. This is a dangerous corridor and whatever we do we want to make it safer.
 So, the request for proposal got an outstanding response. This is to your credit and to Fayetteville's credit and to Northwest Arkansas' credit. People are interested in working for Fayetteville. Thirteen teams responded. It was a request for proposal, so it wasn't an easy request to respond to.
 The selection committee ended up interviewing four teams. All of them were very talented. All of them brought a lot to the table. The selection committee recommended the team led by RDG Planning and Design and Garvey Engineering, which is headquartered out of North Little Rock and has an office here and has familiarity and done a lot of work in Fayetteville. And Grun and Grun for the market study, which is a very important part of this project.
 Those of you who have served on selection committees are familiar with these criteria and qualifications for a specific project. The team that was recommended to you by the selection committee has done many, many corridor studies. In fact, that is one of their specialties that they bring to the table.
 I'LL TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE PROPOSED MESSAGE FOR DOING THE WORK. IN TERMS OF PAST PERFORMANCE, GARBRA HAS A LONG HISTORY IN FAYETTEVILLE, AND THE RDG PLANNING DESIGN HAS MANY, MANY REPEAT CUSTOMERS WHICH GOES TO PAST PERFORMANCE. AND LASTLY, COSTS AND FEES, AND I'LL TALK ABOUT THAT LATER.
 The proposed method of doing the work, the proposal is to do a citizen steering committee would be appointed, a technical committee. They look at a full range of tools, websites, social media. This was the language in their proposal.
 Communications has synced that a little bit and we have a signed contract that now changes the Survey Monkey part of it and the website part of it to conform with our ongoing efforts to buy new software. But we got that in sync with what we're proposing to do.
 So, a proposed method of work starts with existing conditions and then they help us with the implementations.
 You can see that the market analysis is prominent, creating a consensus vision for the corridor where the property owners are proposed to be invited and given many, many opportunities to get involved in this corridor, and if we can't develop consensus about the vision,
 The plan will have a short shelf life, so that's so important. And then there's a lot of other work that needs to be done. We need to look at the land use alternatives, the transportation improvements.
 streetscape, urban design, and capital infrastructure. This is where the projects could spin off for bond issue funding or other funding that may become available. Regulating plan is just a current term for looking at the zoning and the regulations and making sure that they support the corridor vision and the public investment and then the approval process.
 The costs and fees, as you will recall, last year's budget had budgeted $100,000, which was rolled over to this year. The signed contract calls for $153,000. The budget amendment that we are asking for requests $100,000 with the remainder being
 So, with that, staff recommends approval of both the budget amendment and the contract, and I would be happy to entertain your questions. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. What questions do we have regarding the council? CHAIRMAN BRYANT. MS. Thank you. In reading this contract, I will say it was a big contrast between the one that CH2M presented with us and this one that we are seeing from RDG. I feel like we need to tighten this up quite a bit.
 Under, let's see, I mean, I guess, as far as my questions for Garner, let's start with in the contract, what...
 I have concerns about the Archibald Yell portion. It says the portion of the corridor does not need additional evaluation of traffic and pedestrian alternatives, only land use recommendations. And from our mobility plan, my understanding is that we received several potential scenarios and that this scope of work would help us narrow down and actually select the appropriate scenario. So we do actually need them to weigh in on that.
 Absolutely. Okay, well that's not stated in the contract. The contract is anticipating using the work that was completed with Nelson Nygaard as
 The point was we don't want to redo all the work that was done by Nelson Nygaard, which we've already paid for, which looked at it from an engineering perspective and selected it as one of eight projects that received a lot more attention.
 Actually, they recommend it as one of the prime candidates for a road diet type treatment going down to three lanes. The proposal there is to recognize all that good work and look at the contextual relationships, the zoning adjacent to it.
 Right, well the contract actually states this portion of the corridor does not need additional evaluation of traffic and pedestrian alternatives, although we were presented with several alternatives and we need their further guidance in selecting which alternative is the most appropriate. So right now the contract doesn't include that in their scope of work. I would really like to see that language hammered out to be more clear. The other thing is...
 Up in Issues to be Resolved, which is number two in the contract, 2C, it talks about the corridor being a city neighborhood area, and it talks about the different transects in...
 But then it goes on to say that the corridor plan shall reevaluate this designation and suggest applicable changes. And what I'm concerned about is, based on a lot of the examples that they showed in their work during the selection committee, they talked about...
 that some areas of the commercial strip may not be appropriate for the level of inclusive mobility and mixed-use zoning that we have designated in our future land use plan. And the way the contract is worded states that they are going to re-evaluate these land use designations instead of basically giving us the design to show us how to achieve the goals we've already outlined.
 I understand the point, and I basically agree with it, but in terms of your intent. But if you look at the original listing I have here. Right, I'm looking at their contract because that's what they're held to. I want to answer the question. Okay. These Fayetteville goals are often trade-offs, and sometimes some of the design goals that we have
 Some of the goals for multimodal transportation have to have a tradeoff element in order to realize a practical solution or a goal of improving our tax base and economic development. The specific item I recall from their presentation—
 was in Des Moines, Iowa where they helped place the corridor plan called for the buildings to be on the street. And they showed how they orientated that building and articulated the street side of it, but still had parking in front of it.
 So, they could persuade the grocery store to put the building on the street and the sidewalk rather than setting it back with parking in front of it, which is a process that these studies need to realize. One is some of these goals are tradeoffs, and we have to figure out how to take the next practical step.
 I heard their presentation with respect to that issue.
 I guess I have a lot of things in the contract that I feel are not, first of all there's no mention of storm water. And this is a major issue for us on the 71B corridors, it is all over our city. There's no mention of attainable housing. And that's not in any of the inventories or anything, and yet that's one of our primary city plan goals. And there's one mention of our city plan 2030. There's no mention of our vision 2050 guiding principles.
 You know, there's talk about the initial staff stakeholder meeting done in person or via conference call. I don't feel that that meets the bar that we need to meet in order to kick off what will ultimately result in hundreds of millions of dollars of investment in our downtown and shape our city for centuries.
 I don't see the changes in terms of the communications changes that you mentioned earlier beyond Survey Monkey. I don't see that included in the contract. And normally I wouldn't be quite so nitpicky on a contract, but as a person who is on the selection committee, this was the team that I would have thrown out. This was the team that I was the least impressed by their work. I was the least impressed by their team dynamics.
 I saw one person dominate the meeting when he had a table full of other professionals and all the other groups engaged the whole team. And yet we need a team that is good at consensus building, that can work with a lot of different types of people because that's gonna be the key to making this project a success. And I didn't feel this firm embodied that. So when I see a...
 a contract with a lot of loopholes in it, what really kind of looks like a template that they've kind of plugged in a few things specific to our project. I'm not impressed. I mean, I don't feel like it adequately addresses the goals that we've set forth for our city. And I mean, this is going to shape our city for centuries.
 And we're going to be investing a lot of money, not just for the public money, but also the private sector is going to come up. And I feel like we need to do this right. And I have a lot of concerns that this is not the right team to do that job. So with that, I'll turn it over. Okay. What other questions do we have from the council? Mark. With that discussion, I'm wondering if we could table this. I'm thinking out loud here.
 Because I would like to take a look at the documents that were provided to the committee and look at the relevance, comparative relevance. So I'm going to move that we table this for two weeks so that those of us that have not looked at the documents have the opportunity to understand better the concerns that are mentioned by Council Member Marsh.
 Okay. John? Second the motion, Mayor. Okay. Before we table it, I would like to take public comment, if I may. Is that all right with the motion? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Seeing that, I'm bringing it back to the council. So, sure. Yeah, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. Can you just close to us if the vote at the selection committee was split?
 It was a close vote. You asked him to split. It was, yes. Split for a clear second or split across two or three other firms? I don't have the answer to that. I don't know—I would like an opportunity to suggest an alternative.
 to tabling it. We are anxious to get started on this. We have a motion and a second on the floor, do we not, Kent? Yes, and that takes precedence. I'm interested in hearing if there is an alternative that would affect my vote on it. I'm just looking on prestige here. Vote down this motion and then we can have a discussion. I think Susan wanted to discuss the communication plan.
 Sarah, if you don't mind, I'd like to address the points that you didn't see in the revised version of the contract because I just wanted to point out that we did make some changes in item 6B.
 to insert the communication team and to make sure that we had a similar approach as the CH2M or Jacobs because we kind of have a routine now in how we do the public engagement. And previously this contractor had indicated they wanted to manage that for us, build a project website and we basically said no, we'd like to use our tools. And so we changed contract
 B, 2 and 2A, 2 and 2A and then over in deliverables they had previously indicated they wanted to build the brand and a project website and we in fact said you know we'd like to work with you and ask you to use our brand colors and you know different things that would make it be more implementable on our project website. So we are, we did make a decision.
 significant changes to that particular scope. Okay, so we're absorbing the scope. Was there any reduction in fee commensurate with that reduction in scope? No, there were not. Okay, I think Councilman Pate wanted some information before he goes on the table. No, I just wanted to, if there was an alternate that's presented to the tabling, I'd love to hear it. I did want to say that in the selection committee, the next firm was selected
 I believe it was one or two points. It was a very small difference between this and Dover coal, which was the second choice. I would like to hear your alternative, Garner, on how I am going to make coal. Well, my suggestion is that first of all, engineering contracts and
 Broad visioning contracts that are reaching out to the community and developing consensus regarding a vision are a little bit like comparing apples and oranges. Engineering contracts are building specific.
 things in the community. But I do think Councilmember Marsh makes some very good points. I think every one of those could easily be achieved.
 through the existing conditions and transportation review, the kickoff opening work product. And I would just like to sit down and make a list of everything that needs to be done and make sure that we get that done and proceed rather than we're already...
 Our goal was to get this done in 2018. This work program calls for a year, so we're going to be halfway into next year. I know we have a bond issue coming up. I think this process could go a long way towards getting the community involved in investing our limited resources to improve this corridor.
 But I think the point is either they're going to vote or they're going to table it tonight. Yeah. So it would depend on how long you want to table it. I spoke two weeks. We'll leave it two weeks is my point. I think we can wait two weeks. Okay? Well, that's my opinion. Do we take public comment on this? Does anybody remember out there? I don't. Thank you.
 All right, we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks, correct? Correct. Any other discussion? All right, let's vote on that first. All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Mark. Yes. Finn. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, moving along to number five. Thank you all.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6176 for approximately 0.25 acres located at 714 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Kip. Be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, yes mayor and council this is a one lot rezoning request It's a proposal to rezone from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban The lot is across from Walker Park senior Center and it is 75 foot wide I believe the applicant wishes to
 to build two single-family homes, and the NC district requires 40 foot per lot. So the adopted plans are the Walker Park Neighborhood Plan, which encourages a variety of residential building types. Issues are it is predominantly occupied by small single-family homes.
 and whether or not the one lot NC to RIU is appropriate. Just to look at a little broader perspective, here is the subject property. You have zone I, similar zoning immediately to the north, downtown General's the blue. Yellow is RSF 18, so there are a number of
 PARCELS THAT HAVE RECEIVED REZONING IN RECENT YEARS. WITH THAT, STAFF AND PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMEND APPROVAL. I'D BE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS. NEW SPEAKER P. ZACH, WOULD YOU LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE COUNCIL? NEW SPEAKER P. THANK YOU. ZACH EIDERMAN, 849 SOUTH WASHINGTON AVE.
 directly behind my property. I'm looking to develop it behind the property that I live in. I'm happy to answer any questions. What question do we have? Kyle has a question. Hi.
 I was worried I wasn't going to get to ask this question, but now that I see who I'm talking to, I think you can handle this one. So the issue that...
 Gardner mentioned is that you can't split a 75 foot lot into two 40 foot lots in neighborhood conservation So our AU has a 18 foot minimum lot with RSF 18 Which is also some of the other ones I've talked about here lets you do 30 which you you could flip Why did you pick that one? Well, we have done RSF 18 on a couple other lots in the neighborhood We came up with
 On one, we were doing some one-bedroom cottages, which I guess is on the agenda. Actually, I think we have addressed some of those issues. But we came up with needing a conditional use permit, variants, probably six variances on that. And we were just building...
 four one-bedroom cottages, 2,000 square feet. It just was really prohibitive to... I mean, we figured it out, but it was just really challenging. On another property just down the street, we were using that to RSF 18, and we had to...
 go through numerous processes as well. We were trying to build a house with an ADU attached, get a conditionally used permit to make a duplex so we could rent it out if we needed to, both sides. And that took, again, a considerable amount of time trying to go through all the whole process. RIU is a little more flexibility. And we could have gone the ADU route potentially. What we'd like to do is build a house with...
 ADU, TWO HOUSES WITH TWO ADUs, AND PRIOR TO HAVING THE PROPOSAL BEFORE YOU TONIGHT, THAT WASN'T AN OPTION. SO HOPEFULLY THAT ANSWERS YOUR QUESTION. NEW SPEAKER THANKS. NEW SPEAKER OKAY. ANYTHING ELSE? ANY QUESTIONS? ALL RIGHT. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU.
 I'll open it up to public comment. I believe there's nobody here that hasn't already heard the rules before, so I won't go through those again. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll go right back to the council. Sarah. May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? John. Second reading. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 i know we suspend the rose and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading son would you please call the road yeah yes yes yes yes yes
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6176 for approximately a quarter acre located at 714 South College Avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban Okay, final comments from the council on this. It's been a good looking project. Saunders, please call the roll. Smith? Gray?
 Yes. March? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number six, a resolution to approve a lesser dedication of 23.5 feet from center line rather than 29.5 feet from center line of College Avenue because of undue hardship
 difficulties for the landowner. Garner? Yes, Mayor. We did get a request from the applicant that they wish to withdraw this request and I believe the City Attorney has recommended the proper motion would be to indefinitely table the item. Yes, if the applicant is here I would like them to confirm that this is what they would like to do.
 Yeah, I'm just curious, indefinitely table versus— So that would be fine with you? Yeah. Okay, thanks. Okay. All right. John? I move we indefinitely table this proposal. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to indefinitely table. Table indefinitely. Anybody else? John? Okay. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Greg? Yes. Mark? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Mitch? Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 7, an ordinance to amend 164.19, accessory dwelling units of the Unified Development Code to encourage the construction of more accessory dwelling units in that kit.
 Whereas removing impediments to building accessory dwelling units will support the goals of City Plan 2030 by making appropriate infill and revitalization of the city's highest priority and creating opportunities for attainable housing. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 164.19, Accessory Dwelling Units, and enact a new Section 164.19 as follows. Subsection 8, Purpose. Accessory Dwelling Units are allowed in certain situations to create new housing units while respecting the character and pattern of small-scale traditional town form, increase the housing stock of existing neighborhoods in a manner that is compatible with established housing
 massing, scale, and development patterns, allow more efficient use of existing housing stock and infrastructure, provide a means for residents, particularly seniors, single parents, and families with grown children to remain in their homes and neighborhoods and obtain extra income, security, companionship services, and provide a broader range of accessible and more attainable housing.
 Section B intent, planning staff shall evaluate the following criteria for the review and approval of an accessory dwelling application. Number one, the property shall have infrastructure, water, sewer, gas, electric, etc., that meets the city standards to serve the accessory dwelling unit. Two, a two-story accessory dwelling unit shall limit the major access, stairs, decks, entry doors, and major windows.
 to the walls facing the principal dwelling or to the alley if applicable, windows that impact the privacy of neighboring side or rear yards shall be minimized. Three, the orientation and location of buildings, structures, open spaces, and other features of the site should protect and maintain natural resources, including significant trees and shrubs, to the extent feasible, and minimize alteration of natural landforms.
 Building profiles, location, and orientation should relate to the natural landforms. Subsection C, Administrative Design, Review, and Approval. All accessory dwelling units shall meet the following standards for administrative approval by the Zoning and Development Administrator. Prior to approval of an accessory dwelling unit, the Zoning and Development Administrator shall find that 1. Maximum square feet.
 the accessory dwelling unit shall not be greater than 1200 square feet of habitable space per lot zoning the accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all underlining zoning requirements including but not limited to building area bulk in area and setbacks with the exception of density units subsection 3 parking for accessory dwelling units with individual or combined about habitable space greater than 800 square feet
 One parking space shall be provided on-site. Required parking for the accessory dwelling unit is in addition to the required parking for the principal dwelling unit. On-street parking may be counted towards the total parking requirement where it is allowed in a public right-of-way adjacent to the subject property. Maximum number of accessory dwelling units per lot.
 A maximum of one detached and one attached or interior accessory dwelling unit provided the combined square footage does not exceed 1,200 square feet. Other code requirements. The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with the requirements of the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code as adopted in Section 173.02 of the Unified Development Code. Six, maximum occupancy of the accessory dwelling units.
 A maximum of two persons shall reside in accessory dwelling units per lot. Building height and stories of attached accessory dwelling units shall be a maximum of 25 feet in height to the roof peak measured from the existing adjacent grade. Subsection B, an attached accessory dwelling unit may occupy a basement, first or second story of a principal dwelling unit and shall not be taller than the roof lines of the principal dwelling unit.
 Section D, Planning Commission approval. An applicant may request approval from the Planning Commission of a variance from the maximum size requirements for size, square feet, height, and materials for an accessory dwelling unit where unique circumstances exist and the effect will not adversely affect the adjoining or neighboring property owners. The applicant shall provide notification to the adjacent property owners prior to the date of the meeting. Section D.
 Subsection E, existing detached second accessory dwelling units. Existing detached second dwelling units approved by the Planning Commission by conditional use and constructed shall be considered a legal conforming accessory dwelling unit on the property. And subsection F, violation of the requirements herein shall be prosecuted to the maximum extent of law.
 I should point out that there has been some discussion between my office and planning about certain parts of this, especially C6, which is maximum occupancy of the accessory dwelling unit.
 I have presented three options for you, the first two last week, and then in response to Andrew Garner and Garner Stoll, I have also offered you another one. So you have occupancy limits of two, three, or four, depending on which you choose.
 I offered the two and four first, but the third one has been suggested because of requests from Garner Stoll and Andrew Garner, and that would limit the number of persons occupying an accessory dwelling unit if there is more than one to two in one unit, and if in fact there is a person in the third unit who would be a member of the related family living in
 A relative of the people living in the house, who are living in the house as a family unit, not three unrelated people, but a family unit, would also be allowed to occupy one of the two allowed accessory dwelling units. So that would mean there could be a total of three people in the accessory dwelling units rather than two, which was what I understood they wanted in the first place.
 So, I think this is something you all need to figure out and when you figure it out then I would suggest that you make a motion to one of the three choices you have which A would be if you have two accessory dwelling units you can only have two additional people which would mean each dwelling unit would have a signal occupancy or one would have to have zero occupancy which doesn't seem to make much sense.
 Or, Ex. B would say that both of the accessory dwelling units, if there were two, could have up to two. And then the third one, which I think is now the recommendation of the planning department, is that there could be two unrelated people.
 in one accessory dwelling unit, but the second one would only be able to be occupied by someone related to the family that's living in the main house. So you all need to figure out what you want to do and then we'll go from there. Gardner, let's start with you. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Please bring this forward. We had two very productive sessions with our Planning Commission.
 They dug into the details, they found lots of examples nationally, and one thing we all found out is that everybody is looking at this issue right now. Fayetteville adopted an accessory drilling unit ordinance in 2008, and I've been trying to find out since I came here how many units have actually been constructed, and as near as I can tell it's one or two per year.
 So, not many have been constructed and there are many reasons for that and some are regulatory but not all. But just so the code can be understood that's in front of you today, there are three types of accessory dwelling units allowed in the Fayetteville Code today and the proposal is to leave that unchanged, that is interior, attached, and detached.
 Kit read the purpose statement. One way of looking at the changes recommended by staff and Planning Commission is we really took a deep dive and said, what are we asking for ADUs that we don't require for single family houses since this is an extended family, extended living concept?
 So, we had additional exterior design requirements. We had an additional parking space, which now is recommended not to be required unless you build more than 800 square feet. And I think the big one was the deed restriction requiring the property owner to permanently occupy the principal or the accessory dwelling unit.
 All that, implementing this required a separate process, so you had to go through an application for an accessory dwelling unit and then come back and get a billing permit. We think if the changes recommended by the Planning Commission are approved by you all, we can go straight to a billing permit.
 Other changes, the Planning Commission recommended actually strengthening the privacy goals so that the accessory dwelling unit doesn't infringe on the privacy of the adjacent properties. The recommendation is to allow one detached and one attached, provided that the total square footage couldn't exceed 1,200 square feet.
 Kit mentioned the issues of occupants. The recommendation is real simple. We're keeping the status quo with regard to occupants. The recommendation is that a family, a related family, plus two individuals.
 And those two additional persons doesn't go to four when you have two ADUs, it stays at two. So family plus two, that's the recommendation. An alternative I wanted to—I believe the deed restriction is an impediment.
 But I have found around the country a requirement that the owner live there. You could retain that and eliminate the need restrictions. We have many, many zoning requirements that we don't require being placed as a need restriction.
 The existing ordinance allows 950 square feet. The Planning Commission recommendation is to go to 1,200 square feet, but that's also an alternative for discussion. So with that, we recommend changes as recommended by the Planning Commission. I want to make it perfectly clear that this is pushing the envelope towards reducing the restrictions fairly aggressively.
 both in terms of size and parking, but not occupancy. The occupancy requirements that are in the existing ordinance are very typical from the ordinances I have found nationwide. With that, I would answer any questions. Okay. Let's start with Matt. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank staff and the Planning Commission for all the hard work. I think this is one of those things that Fayetteville has proposed.
 should be very proud of. It is aggressive, but I'm reminded of something we did a while ago where we removed minimum parking requirements for commercial development in the city and eliminated one of the most cited barriers to commercial redevelopment at that time. And I think today we're looking at it as an opportunity to eliminate one of the most cited barriers to accessory dwelling unit development.
 This is probably about the best kind of housing we could ask for, in my opinion, and it's why I'm so grateful to staff and for Planning Commission for what we've got before us. This kind of housing, when it gets built, it gets built in the right spot, meaning it gets built on parcels that already have people living on them in neighborhoods where people are already living, meaning that we're increasing the efficiency of the services that we are providing when every one of these gets built.
 And it's a more gentle way of adding housing than so many of the teardown projects that we're seeing around town. This doesn't require teardowns to add new housing like things that are more intense might be. I honestly think it's one of the smartest ordinances we've seen in my 10 years.
 And I'm very excited to vote for it. The logic of family plus two and maintaining that I think is really smart. And I think I'm going to make a motion about the exhibit. I might personally be even more aggressive. I know that every part of this I think is backed up by...
 precedent in history and I think some really sound justifications that we can all think through even though we might be taking a leadership position here. I think we have really defensible reasons for every part of this proposal.
 more aggressive about the occupancy or the family definitions, which I think might have some constitutional problems. I'm not picking that battle here. I think that what's been proposed is the right balance in the context of what's here. So I'd like to make a motion to amend this with option C, which I read as really clarifying the intent in the unclear language that we have in the version before us.
 I would ask that you also, I noticed that in doing this, I hadn't even realized it before I looked at it very closely, but the very last subsection F is not on any other development regulation, and I think it was put on there because it was so contentious at first, but it says a violation of the requirements herein shall be prosecuted to the maximum extent of the law. Well,
 Every violation is going to be prosecuted the same way. We don't need to have that on there. I think it implies that we don't prosecute other violations through the maximum incentive law. So I would just suggest that you repeal subsection F. It kind of goes without saying, and it kind of implies that we don't do the same for other ordinances. I hadn't even noticed that. I think it was a throwback to when this was a first pass because it was so controversial. You mean subsection J, right? You said F, but that's about planning commission approval.
 J is about violation. Okay, the one that's printed on my screen here is F, but if it's J now because we've added some other things, then that's fine. Maybe I'm looking at it. All right, well, then the motion is to enact the replacement language, Exhibit C, in the memo that's before us, and to remove the paragraph that's superfluous about the maximum extent of the law. Thanks. Okay.
 Do we have a second? Okay, Kyle. All right. A motion and a second to amend to option three and repeal subsection J. Yes, yes, options C, right. All right. So shall we discuss that or? Yes, Sarah. Oh, sorry. Mark, I apologize. Yes.
 Whenever we, when this came to the agenda session and I brought it up, there was one plus one or two plus two, and then we suddenly have one plus two. I'm just going to say it. We already have a problem with over-occupancy, and in some of our neighborhoods we're inviting more over-occupancy, and I think that being as aggressive, I would like to see it go to,
 the B rather than the C, well the one plus one, what was that? That's A. A, initially, see how it works out and then we can come and revisit it. If anyone thinks that we're not getting a lot of over-occupancy and a lot of concern about the number of occupants and dwellings, they're not obviously getting the same phone calls that I get.
 And so I can't support this. I'm going to have to say a step at a time and look at the A for a maximum of two occupants. May I address that? I think I've addressed it. I'm sorry. Well, the intent from Planning Commission was to keep the occupancy as it is presently,
 It allows a family plus two. You don't get—if a family member, if a related family member chooses to occupy interior or the attached ADU—the way I read A is that one of them would have to be left vacant. And I'm not sure—is that your intent?
 seems like a waste of space. It's not unusual for a family to have an in-law or a grandma or a grandfather living with them. They meet the definition of a family in our code. And the way I read, see, is it would allow that person to occupy the—
 one ADU and then the second ADU is capped at two unrelated. So it is family plus two. It is family plus two presently, it is family plus two in the proposed ordinance. Thank you. The issues that come up in my neighborhood are about cars.
 and noise are the big ones. So I don't care if the person living in the second ADU is your cousin. If they're driving a car, you know, and parking it in, you know, in the neighborhood and, or they're playing loud music, you know, I don't, I'm not concerned with the relationship of the people in the housing unit. You know, it's, so to me, I'm looking at the number of occupants that we're adding to neighborhoods.
 And so while I might be willing to make some allowances for children under the age of 18, as a dependent child in one of the units, I might be able to be convinced on that, but ultimately I don't wanna see us adding more cars and more noise when this is really about adding affordable housing. And if you've got two ADUs and you've got a maximum of 1200 square feet, those are 600 foot units,
 I think it's absolutely reasonable to limit that occupancy to one because by adding all these extra adults with their vehicles to neighborhoods, that's where we're going to start seeing a lot more opposition. So I am going to agree with Mark that I favor option A. I think that that will make this much more palatable, I know certainly in my neighborhood, and hopefully in others as well. Okay. Kyle. Yeah.
 I can certainly appreciate all the allowances for family, but since those aren't in here, or the allowances for underage minors, without that it seems like sticking with the intent of family, the reason I seconded the motion for option C was it seems like it's not
 feels like it goes ahead and takes care of that if we want to regulate cars and noise i hope we will regulate cars and noise instead of instead of trying to play the numbers game on here i think this one's you know by adding an additional unit and putting um
 a grandmother or a adult child in it. I think we're not really adding any more to the lot or the land area than we would be if we were doubling them up in the spare bedroom. It just allows a little more private place for maybe some of the more extended family. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Ultimately, I think I'll support this ordinance, whether it's option A or option C. And that's not a hill I'm really going to die on. But in defense of option C, I do think that we are maybe looking for things that we could –
 amplifying the impacts of this in our mind. For me, it comes back to a simple test. If I have a project like this and I've got two 600-square-foot ADUs, one detached and one attached like the ordinance allows us to propose, if I have a family member living with me, I can do that just fine with option C, but if it's option A, I'm not allowed to give them their own kitchen. I mean, that's what this comes down to. I can have as many family members as I want live with me, I just can't give one of them their own kitchen.
 Because that's the difference between having a big bedroom suite and a proper dwelling unit. And for me that's a real arbitrary line to cross.
 It doesn't make sense to me that we would put a restriction on people who want just a little more privacy like that. I think we need to think about these thresholds in practical terms. We've already reduced the requirement for parking. We've kept them from doing two ADUs that are big, so we're keeping occupancy down by market forces.
 because you just can't put that many people in a 600 square foot unit. I think roommates will be uncommon. But I think about another scenario too where if I've got one person, if I've got these two ADUs and then somebody falls on hard times and they have to take a roommate, I am forcing an eviction with option A. And I'm not comfortable with that.
 for a lot of reasons. So for me, it's these two things. What is the real problem with two unrelated people living together and me giving a family member their own kitchen? Because that's what option C allows. The only difference between option C and option A is I can't give them a kitchen or I have to evict somebody if they have to double up. Very much. Yes. I'm leaning toward option C myself because...
 Kyle hit on this. I think we can correct any, or we can address any parking issues maybe later on down the road. But I'm thinking about if you have, you know, as I have family that is aging and I think about caregivers. If you have someone living with you, you might also want a caregiver. And that caregiver might have a child or something like that. So you end up with more than one.
 you end up with more than one person living in the accessory dwelling that's not attached to the house or not part of the house. If Grandpa lives in the house. So these are all things that I consider, and I'm leaning toward option C. I think that's a better choice. Okay. Well, now we'll take some public comment. I think everybody knows the rules. Let's rock and roll here. All right. Three.
 Hi, good evening, Mayor. My name is Theresa Turk. I live at 1408 West Cleveland.
 I think we have major serious over occupancy issues here. I think that will exacerbate those issues. I'm also concerned about the parking, the noise. And basically, 1,200 feet, that's a huge place. That's a lot of square feet. So I personally am in favor of keeping things the way they are.
 I just think that this will cause more problems. We've got lots of issues right now, and loosening those requirements I don't agree with. So thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this on this?
 ZARA NEIDERMANN, 849 SOUTH WASHINGTON. I REALLY THINK THIS IS A GREAT PROPOSAL. WHEN WE TALK ABOUT OVEROCCUPANCY, WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO LIVE IN PLACES THAT MAY HAVE TROUBLE FINDING HOUSING THAT IS AFFORDABLE. AND SO LOOKING AT OPTIONS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING, I WAS HERE LAST NIGHT WITH A FAMILY MEMBER
 probably some of you, there was a whole roomful, talking about how do we find affordable housing. And so I think that...
 THIS REALLY GIVES A SOFT WAY TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING. IT PROVIDES ADDITIONAL INCOME FOR THE HOMEOWNER. IT PROVIDES JUST A SOFT WAY AS OPPOSED TO NECESSARILY REZONING SOMETHING, BUILDING A LARGER APARTMENT COMPLEX OF STUDENT HOUSING. WE HAVE STUDENTS. WE HAVE MORE AND MORE STUDENTS COMING.
 Pretending that we're not going to have those students or that they're going to all be pushed further out into other places, to big apartment complexes that I think most people in the city aren't necessarily supportive of. I think that this is a nice way to help with housing affordably across the board. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 thank you mr mayor romaine o'neill 207o east finnell link department three i'm in favor of this i think it's a good thing that the city is allowing for the future because there are more and more aging people i'm in that category hopefully
 I don't have anyone living in the city who has property who would be interested in building such a dwelling, but I think there probably are many in the city who are in that situation. And I think this is a very good thing to try to help families stay together. And whether it's option A or option C, I think that's trying to legislate morality.
 Because we all know that if someone is determined to try to circumvent the rules, they will do so. Oh, this is my brother. Now, to what measure do you go to to determine whether or not that person is actually a relative? And that, I think, is a concern. And I don't think option A or option C is irrelevant. I mean, I think that option A or option C is irrelevant. I don't know what option A is.
 But I think it's a good thing that something like this is being considered, and I think you should move forward on it. Thank you. My name is Robin Devine, and I live at 1000 Boone Street, South Fayetteville. I was under the impression that a mother-in-law house was half the size of the homeowner's house. Is that not true?
 No, I don't believe it is. Okay, so my house is 700 square feet. The house is a single person, a dog and a cat quite well, thank you, with room left over. So I could actually put a 1,200 square foot house behind my house? That's correct. In the garden? Yes. That's really, I think, amazing. Thank you. I was just going to clarify. And I do believe in having mother-in-law houses for, I just believe in having a neighbor behind you if that's what you need.
 whether it's for your own income or my age as I get older needing a caretaker to live there, or a sister coming from out of state, whatever the reasons are, I'm in favor of mother-in-law type housing. Thank you. Mayor. Robin, may I ask you a question? Robin, may I bring you back up here?
 Thank you. Since you've been spearheading the movement in the Great House Park area to deal with infill and how we're going to accommodate new housing units, what is your opinion on the option A, which is basically limiting it to two people, regardless of the relationship total, or option C, which is two people plus family that could add in? Do you have a preference or some insight into that, which could result in more than two additional people?
 I haven't really thought about that, Ms. Sarah, so I don't really have an informed opinion about that at the moment. And I'm also under the impression that whether or not this passes or doesn't pass, you still can have a mother-in-law house. Everybody in Fayetteville that owns a house can have a mother-in-law house behind their house. So that doesn't change. It's just the amount of occupancy. Right. So if you were to build that 1,200-square-foot unit in your backyard, you know...
 say you put two units there, so two 600 square foot units, you know, option C would allow you to rent one to, say, your mother or other relative, and then one other person in the other unit, whereas in option C...
 C, or I'm sorry, option A, sorry, I explained that right. Yeah, C, you can have two other people. Two additional people plus that relative. Now, thinking about that in terms of our neighborhood and the density, how...
 I'm looking for feedback because I want this to be palatable to our neighborhood. The big thing that comes to my mind, I remember Hurricane Harvey in Houston. Not that we're anything like Hurricane Harvey in Houston, but we are in a flood plain. When I got my little lot, which is a third of an acre, bought one about 2002, I asked a dowser to come and...
 water which, whatever you want to call it. She said there was three underground creeks and a wet weather spring on my property. When it rains, the water gets this big above the ground level on my property, and I'm not in the floodplain. I'm more concerned about, and I have swales that move it so my house doesn't get wet. I am more concerned about how much housing could go in our floodplain area because of the, that would be more of my concern than the people.
 Okay, so it's the density of building and not the occupants and the number of cars and things in the neighborhood. Without thinking about it too much, just for my neighborhood, just because we're in such a wet area. So we're just talking about the modification to this, right, at this point, not the actual thing. I have a question. Does either of these affect, like if you're a single parent and you have two kids, because in a lot of our other cities who have used this, the ADUs, a lot of single parents use these ADUs with them.
 with their kids when they move out, like if they get divorced or they're widowed or something like that, help get us back on their feet. And we talk about how we want a sustainable path to prosperity and stuff like that, and that's what this is for. So I'll defer to the council's wisdom here, but let's just make sure that we're not blocking out parents with their children. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Okay.
 Bring it back to the council. I believe we have a motion and a second to adopt option three. I'm sorry. Seat. Sorry. And to repeal the superfluous. Gotcha. I gotcha. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 March yes, no Yes Yes, okay Motion passed all right now. We have the amended ordinance before us correct. Yes, that's correct, okay All right, who would like to address this from the public on the amended ordinance? I'm sorry
 I have more amendments to propose. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Hang on. Well, let me... I'm sorry. I missed that. If you want to take the comment... Okay. All right. So in looking at the amendments, overall, I think this is a fantastic ordinance, and we are moving in the right direction, and I really... I like what we're doing here. I have a few small concerns. One of them is about the...
 I guess it's item three, which is, um, about limiting the major access stairs, decks, entry doors, and major windows to the walls facing the principal dwelling or to the alley if applicable. And I agree with the intent here. Um, but I would like to amend that to say that they can face the principal dwelling, the public way, or the interior of the property so that, um,
 I think that we're covered in this, that windows that impact the privacy of the neighboring side or rear yard shall be minimized because for larger parcels, it doesn't really make sense to basically say the windows can only face the principal dwelling. Um, when they could face a garden area, they could face a trail, they could face some other kind of easement or public land. So if we say, okay, you know, we're already limiting the, um,
 impact to the privacy of the neighboring side or rear yard. So beyond that, I don't see a need to limit the fenestration of the buildings. Thanks.
 does that make sense you're looking at me well i'm trying to get that wrapped wrapped around that okay give me an example so um i think about uh the property that i live on i could build an accessory like a garage apartment in the back um and i would obviously want to limit the the windows that would face the neighboring property but on the other side of the property well i've got a trail in the backyard i have a wooded area on the side yard and i would really like to make that accessory dwelling unit for
 my garden, but under this current code I would have to get a variance to do that. And that just seems, you know, the intent is to limit the intrusion onto other people's land and I think that that's a very good intent and we should leave that. But right now it says that you know the windows either have to propose face the principal dwelling or the alleyway. So I think that we could broaden that and just say
 Basically, we could say windows that impact the privacy of the neighboring side should be minimized, shall be minimized. I think that would cover us under Section 3. And your amendment is to minimize? Yes. Basically to say, strike the first sentence of Item 3 and on the second sentence say that windows that impact the privacy of neighboring side or rear yard shall be minimized.
 Well, the one I'm looking at on the screen is subsection 2 where it says, A two-story accessory dwelling unit shall limit the major access stairs, decks, entry doors and major windows to the walls facing the principal dwelling or to the alley if applicable.
 Is that not what you're, is that what you're looking at, that subsection? Yeah, I think I'm, is what we're getting on the Granicus different than what we're pulling up on the screen here? Because I'm seeing different things than you. That might be the original one as opposed to the one that's been proposed to be amended to. You might be looking at the current law. Okay, it would be nice if our Granicus could be updated so that we're consistent in what we're.
 Okay, okay, so I'll look on the screen up here. I think I understand what you're trying to say though. Yeah, basically, you know, so we don't want them intruding on the privacy of the neighbors, but they can face any other direction. So you know, mine could face the trail, it could face my garden, it could face my home, but it could not face my neighbor's backyard. So you would block it intruding on the neighbors, but you could put your windows anywhere else you want? Anywhere else as long as I'm not intruding on the privacy of the neighbors.
 And of course, I think that it was important that that was talking about a two-story structure which is obviously going to be much more impactful to your neighbors. Right. But a two-story building can be built under the height limitation. And then I also want to address the height limitation. I think it's already on your screen right now.
 Yeah, B-3. Right, right. I think that's the word. Okay. So, yeah, this is different than what I'm seeing on the grant, I guess. But what the council is seeing on the screen is probably not the final agenda. We cannot change that. Okay. We cannot say it that way. And that's the reason we can't be emailing you an email.
 Okay, thank you. Okay, and I like to follow along on my iPad with the documents while I'm doing stuff here, so that's creating some discrepancies. Okay, so B intent section 3. Actually, no, that's not. Sorry, section 2. Section 2.
 Yes. So I would just say windows that impact the privacy of the neighboring side or rear yard shall be minimized. And I think we could strike that first sentence. Because it doesn't really matter if it's a one-story or a two-story. If they're looking at your backyard or in your window, that's inappropriate. You're right. That's correct. But you could put it, as long as it's not in treatment, and maybe put the windows anywhere else you want to put them.
 What about the stairs and decks and entry doors? Yeah, all of that. So maybe we could say—this is hard to draft while I'm talking—just say that ADUs shall generally limit the major access, stairs, decks, entry doors, and major windows away from neighboring structures and yards.
 I thought the first thing you worded it was a lot more simple. I think so, too. I think maybe if we used should as opposed to shall, then that gives guidance to not only the homeowner but also planning, but doesn't require you absolutely to come get a variance if you can convince planning that...
 this is a proper design. Well, I think that our intent was to make this a simpler process. Where you don't have to go through all of that. So I was just, you know, the intent is basically we don't intrude on the privacy of neighbors. And so I think we could simplify this language to avoid...
 to avoid having to go and explain that in front of the Planning Commission. Well, if it said should, it wouldn't have to go to the Planning Commission. That would be something. If it was being approved, I don't know where these would be approved. Garner, do you know where these...
 ACUs would be approved administratively or would they be approved by the Planning Commission? Yes, they would be approved administratively if they meet the ordinance. It does have a provision for variances to go to the Planning Commission. But if we had should it would not necessarily be a variance. Now if it is a shall that would be a variance.
 I would suggest maybe that we leave this on the first reading. Let me substitute the actual ordinance that includes C and gets rid of the last subsection so we can give you something a little bit cleaner to look at. And I will also, if you want me to, work on that language to try to make it where maybe you would not have to have a variance there.
 But let me kind of poll the rest of the City Council. Do you think that this language is a little bit too difficult for ACUs or would you want to keep that language in there to better protect neighbors? I kind of want to see where your City Council wants to go on this. All right, let's get going down the list here. John? Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Sir, I share the concerns that Councilmember Marsh is expressing. We want to protect the privacy of neighbors. But just like my neighbor doesn't want me looking into their windows, I don't want them looking into mine either. So I think there's a natural tendency of homeowners just left to themselves and their own devices to design their houses with windows to promote privacy.
 and to protect privacy. When I built an auxiliary building on my place, my wife made sure the windows were facing away from our house because we didn't want them looking at us, et cetera. I think there's a natural tendency among people. I can support what you're proposing, but I think they'd do it anyway.
 And that's why I can support it. If the regulation is what people would naturally do, I can support the regulation. I don't think we need it. I think it's superfluous. But just to make sure, that's fine. I support the idea. The concept is good. I just want to point that out. I think we probably should leave it on first reading because there are going to be several things we need to go back and change to come up with something we all like.
 So I'd support leaving it on first reading if you want my poll. I know, but Sarah, you had some more amendments you wanted to put in. Yeah, and then I just would also, in response to Latour's comments, I think if somebody is designing a custom dwelling in their own backyard, that is absolutely the case, but when we start seeing more speculative development, we might see stock plans plop down in backyards,
 prefab structures and then that becomes a greater issue. So I think that's why we do have to worry about that. I know that's becoming more and more common in other cities and I don't want to see people just getting a prefab dwelling and dropping it down and messing up somebody's privacy in their backyard. So it's really just about respecting people's privacy without limiting
 property owner's rights. But then the second thing that I wanted to propose is to eliminate the height restrictions and just keep that consistent with the zoning. Our zoning already limits the height
 of structures and I don't think that somebody having a one-story house should preclude them from having an ADU over their garage in the backyard. We've already limited the size of structures based on the square footage and I know in certain areas of our city whether it's a hillside or a floodplain it's better to have less impervious surface area so that would be a smaller footprint and maybe a taller dwelling.
 I think back to the last place I lived in was up on top of Mount Sequoia and it was a one stall garage and it had a two-story apartment on top that was only 500 square feet but it was like a little tree house that looked out over the hill and it was about two stories taller than the primary principal dwelling but it was very appropriate in that setting and I'd also like to mention that we have
 one of the premier schools of architecture in this city, and we have a lot of young, creative, talented people graduating from those schools, and these accessory dwelling units are a great opportunity for them to get their foot in the door and show us their talents. And I could see this becoming a really unique feature of our city would be having some architecturally significant accessory dwelling units.
 And I think by giving us that additional height, you know, that is still consistent with the zoning, I think that affords some opportunity for creativity and more sensitivity to the individual site conditions. So I would propose eliminating the special height requirement and just allowing our zoning code to take care of that as it would any other structure. Okay. I probably won't include that because you can just delete that at the meeting. You can just delete subsection 7, building height and stories.
 right on the spot, so I don't think I need to put that into an offer that I would present to you. Okay, thank you. Yeah, because I hear a lot about hype in neighborhoods on buildings and stuff, so okay. Was there any other thing I should be looking at? That's all I had. Okay, well let's take some public comment on those two amendments.
 Is there any public comment? Yes, Will, you've been waiting patiently. WILL LARCHEY- Well, I think it's going to get held in the first reading here, it sounds like. But I also sound like the council really likes this, and I like it too. I'm an architecture nerd. I wish I could do it, but my calculus is terrible. But I'm also a big Ross Chapman fan, and he's one of the guys who kind of started this whole pocket park and accessory dwelling thing. And I think it's helped a lot of cities that are similar to ours.
 It's helped lower housing costs. It's helped keep our density appropriate to what we're trying to do and it helps people be able to Afford houses that they can then move up which we still talk about that as part of the American dream But if our initial houses are too expensive then it's really hard to ever get started on that on that ladder So I am a big fan of this ordinance, and I hope you guys are too Now we talked about I guess the
 You want to talk about the height limit? I'm sorry, what? No more public comment. Oh, yeah, I'm taking public comment on the amendments. Yes, I am opposed to anything more than a two-story situation based on what's going on in my neighborhood where we're having these three-story buildings
 things totally dwarfing our little 1920 cottages. And it looks horrible. It feels kind of horrible. It has this arrogance of, even though there might not be a window there, there's no shade on the northern house. And having a three-story mother-in-law cottage is in the back...
 It just feels creepy is the right word I would say. There's nowhere you could go in the whole neighborhood without feeling somebody could be looking down on you, your little ants going around your little private businesses. I would vote for a two-story cap, just my opinion.
 Well, that's what's in there right now. I'm not going to draft that differently, but that will be an issue, I think, at the next council meeting. They may decide to strike at the next meeting. Right. I guess I got confused. I'm just trying to get everybody's input on both of what could be happening in two weeks as well. Okay. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Who else would like to address this?
 Thank you Mayor. Romaine O'Neill, 207 East Bonnell Link, Apartment 3. And I'm definitely in support of this ordinance as I had said earlier. And I think it's a very good idea. But in this day and age where cameras are everywhere,
 and that we're trying to protect the privacy of someone, whenever that's almost an impossibility. It behooves every individual to see after their own privacy. Close your curtains.
 and close your door, okay? Close your blinds. It's up to you to protect your own privacy. It's not up to the city to determine whether or not your privacy is being invaded or not, because our privacy is being invaded every day, everywhere we go. If I'm out in the public and I need to pick my nose, somebody's gonna see it somewhere. Okay, who else would like to address this? Well, I'm going to bring it back to council.
 Let's see, where are we? Matthew, where's Matthew? Yes, thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. Is it illegal to be nude in your own backyard? Yeah, I have to answer that. I think that the privacy is actually the biggest hot-button issue, and one that we haven't seen yet because we have only been permitting one or two of these things a year for the last forever. And so it's these two things I might be more conservative than most other people about.
 I'd support amending the height limit, but only because it's measured to the roof peak now. I'd prefer if it used our definition of stories and had a two-story limit, or if we retained the numerical definition that it was measured to the eave instead, so that we're not favoring modern flat roofs.
 So I would support an amendment that looked like that, but I don't think I would be able to support removing the limit or bumping the limit to three stories. And it's because I think privacy is going to be the hot-button issue if we blow that part of this open. And for the same reason...
 I can see myself amending the other section about where decks and such and windows and things are required, but I haven't really heard a case that compels me to amend it right now.
 The ordinance language is abundantly clear. If you have a two-story ADU, then your stuff has to go either on the alley side or the opposite side, and you just can't do it on the abutting sides. I think that's really clear, that's really understandable. Any applicant that comes in is going to understand that right away with very little explanation.
 I worry about changing that to a should because of the privacy implications. If somebody just says, well, tough luck to the planning department, it only says should, I'm going to do what I want.
 I think those are the kinds of things that generate complaints that we can avoid on the front end if we do the ordinance right. All that's to say, you know, I'm fine to hold it on the first reading. I also feel like we litigated the first issue pretty well, and we all understand that. I feel like if we wanted to amend the height ordinance to do the story thing or to be measured to the eve, if we voted that up or down, we'd all have a pretty clear understanding of that.
 I feel like we could still make it through these two issues if these are the only two issues on the table and vote this whole thing up or down tonight. But again, we want to hold on the first reading if we need to go through some actual drafting process, of course let's do it. Okay, we're back to Sarah Morris. Thank you. I just would like to point out if one were to build a three-story dwelling, I would like
 I'd like to point out that if one were to build a three-story dwelling, um, the footprint of that dwelling with the, with the 1200 square foot maximum would only be 400 square feet, which is very small. So these would be very small, uh,
 towers, nothing even remotely approaching the scale of the three-story, probably 3,000 square foot each side duplexes that we're seeing pop up in our neighborhood with the four bedrooms rent by the room. This is nowhere approaching this scale. In fact, I think it would look very appropriate...
 in our neighborhood. And I have concerns about the height limit being measured in feet just because it penalizes people who are in the floodplain who are already having to build several feet above grade. Like in my neighborhood, I have to go up at least three feet to hit the 100-year floodplain and then another two feet to get out of the insurance-mandated clearances. So I think that
 If we are going to set the height in stories, I think that's a better feat. I think we should measure it either from the existing grade or from two feet above the 100-year flood mark. That way we're not predicating development in...
 in small areas and I just I want smaller footprint especially since we are eliminating the stormwater requirement. Um I think that having that smaller impervious surface area is beneficial. Um I really don't like that we're eliminating the low or the stormwater requirements. I would like to see us have some sort of prescriptive you know for every
 X number of square feet of roof area. You have X number of square feet of rain garden as it, you know, the Illinois river watershed partnership has very prescribed guidelines for these sorts of things that we could put in there, um, that help might, that might help address some of the flooding concerns. Um,
 But overall, I think this is a good ordinance no matter what we do with it. I just want us to consider that there are a lot of different types of lots in this city, some very large, some on hillsides, some in floodplains, and this kind of very prescriptive approach we've had here is, I think, difficult on our nontraditional lots that we have a lot of in the city. So we need to think more about not just urban infill but everywhere that we have.
 So, with that, thank you. Okay. Kyle. So, along with Matthew's talk about go ahead and hammering out stuff tonight, what we're looking at are additional relaxing of the restrictions. Is there a reason we couldn't come past what we have tonight and come back and revisit that again?
 Is there a problem, I guess I'm asking Sarah since it was your amendments, is there anything in what we have now that you think would be a problem to pass pending further changes? I have a real problem with the 25 foot height limit.
 especially down in my part of town, that really limits you to a one-story building or two stories with a flat roof. And I think about, you know, kind of originally these have been conceived as garage apartments, and if you've got your garage, and then you put an apartment on top of it,
 You know, and thinking, you know, a one, say a two-car garage is like 600 square feet, so you would have a one-story unit on top of that. A one-car garage is probably closer to 350, 400 square feet, so you could have a loft above that. Right. You know, so you'd have your regular apartment, you know, your regular floor, and then you'd have a little loft. And there you get probably...
 25, 30 feet depending on how much of a pitch you put on that roof. And then if you make some adjustments for getting it up above grade to avoid flood or whatever, you're already exceeding that height limit. So I think our existing zoning does a really good job of regulating height, especially when you're adjacent to another residential property. There are a lot of setbacks and stepbacks in that height requirement. So I think we're already covered for height.
 So, I would really object to the 25 foot limit that is in place currently. Yeah, I think this is a throwback to when it was first enacted. I think now we are looking at stories, not height, not feet. So I think stories would make a lot more sense under 7 building heights and stories. Maximizing it at two stories, not talking about roof peak or anything like that or existing grade.
 Now, subsection B is another one where it says the attached dwelling unit shall not be taller than the roof line of the principal structure. So that's something that I think was put in there so it wouldn't stick out and be bigger than the principal structure. So that's another issue about whether you want to remove that. I think that's for you all to decide. And I would be in favor of removing that.
 If you live in a one-story house, I don't think that that should predicate you from having an apartment above your garage behind it. There are several examples of that in my neighborhood. I don't find them offensive or any more damaging than anything else. This is the attached dwelling unit. Okay, the attached. But still, there are several examples of that around town that are actually quite nice.
 I mean, I think the scale, the 1,200 square foot limit is really what's going to limit the size of these. And I know that, I mean, that's a lot larger than my home. But it really, when you're talking about constructing a new building, it's
 it gets pretty small the higher you get. So, you know, there's already an incentive to keep it low. Because if you get, you know, if you do a three-story, a 400-square-foot footprint is very small. I think what I'm getting at is...
 I'm not sure we're going to hit perfection tonight. And if we can tackle that tonight, I'm all for it. But I don't want to hold up if it's something we can come back and revisit later. Because I think the main impact...
 impediment has been the deed restriction that we haven't talked about yet. And Garner, how many requests do you think have kind of been put on hold because of that part? I don't know in the long term, but we certainly get frequent requests. I've asked that question of our staff, our front office staff.
 And we get a lot more inquiries than we do applications. So there's something that...
 isn't working for them. And I think it's for that reason I'd like to go ahead and give those folks some relief if we can now so that they can go ahead and start submitting applications and then if we need to make further changes to the height then if we can come to agreement on it tonight, fantastic. If not, I'd like to come back and continue that conversation. Just for the council's information, both A and B under 7.
 The city attorney is correct, those are identical from the present ordinance. So they are holdovers. A translation of A, I think, would be two stories if you wanted to not go to three stories. If you converted that to twenty-five feet, twenty-five feet means two stories in my mind.
 Yeah, I'd like to make a motion to replace C7 in its entirety to read an accessory dwelling unit shall be a maximum of two stories in height. All right. We already defined that in other parts of the section, so we don't need to define it there. Okay, so you amend Section C to two stories in height, right? Correct.
 Mayor, we already have a motion on the floor to amend Section 2. Do you wish all council members in March would like to withdraw that motion? I think we really need to address that. The windows. The windows. Okay. Address it. We shall. Yeah, and I think that the proposed language is too restrictive to the various lot conditions that we have around the city and that we should...
 limit that we should reduce that to saying the Let's see. This would be the major access door stairs decks entry doors and major windows Can't help me with this Oh
 We've been here three hours and I think maybe—I know some people would like to resolve this tonight. However, I would caution the City Council that this is a major change for an ordinance that was very controversial when first considered and adopted. It has major impact on the historic districts.
 other areas and we've had some people here speaking about it, but not very many. And I think with a major change like that it might not be bad to leave it on the first reading and let it really get out to the public and so we get more input from them. I think that's a pretty good idea because, I mean, you know, we're trying to pencil something in here tonight and then tomorrow, of course, I'll be in Boston tomorrow.
 there'll be a few calls wanting to know what y'all were doing that you just kind of rammed something through.
 Well, I would like to withdraw my motion to amend the section that we just talked about, but make a motion that we hold this for two weeks, or not hold it. We just leave it on the first reading. That gives us some time to work out the language. This is really important. Let's get it right the first time. And I'll look at both of those other sections that we've talked about, what you suggested, Alderman Petty, and I think that makes it much more clear that
 But I do think it has some benefit to leave it out into the public domain for a little bit and let them think about it and maybe give us their impressions. She was wrong. Okay. So is the other motion from Councilmember Petty withdrawn also? Are we going to go on that? Well, he was throwing something out there. You made a motion, didn't you? Since the other motion is off the floor now, you could make your motion if you want to. There are limited to two stories in Section C, correct? But you want to hang on for two weeks? All right.
 Yeah, I don't mind waiting two weeks at all. Okay, you just leave it on first reading everything there, okay? Yeah, sure. Okay. That went well. Especially considering there's no second. Oh, well, that's a good point. That's actually an excellent point. If I thought it could speed us along, I would second it. Okay, so everybody's all right with letting this sit for two weeks, and then we will start afresh in two weeks.
 Okay. All right. Well, that concludes our business tonight, I believe. Yes. So what announcements do we have? Mayor, I'll make a couple of announcements. We had a great first Gully Park concert last Thursday, and the next Gully Park concert will be June 14th with the Ben Miller Band. We'll have them throughout the summer. Also, to remind our...
 residents that there's construction going on right now at the intersection of arkansas and dixon they're redoing that whole surface area where the razorback used to be it started yes yesterday and will conclude uh in about three weeks but i just want to make sure everybody understands there's congestion there and detours so thank you okay any other announcements i will be leaving for the u.s conference of mayors tomorrow morning i will be back
 a week from today. Some of the things we'll be working on there, I sit on a panel to discuss partnerships between cities, philanthropies, and speaking on that panel. Some of the partnerships that we've been able to form in the city, they were interested in having that presented to U.S. Congress. So that's something that I'll be working with the panel on. And I'll be meeting with the climate change mayors while I'm in that, and the...
 immigration meeting. I'll be setting in on that and then of course we'll be looking at issues of homelessness among veterans over there. So that'll be some of the topics I'll be a part of and looking into. So I'll give a report on what we have when I get back. So I don't believe we have anything else. Thank you all. We're adjourned.