I would like to call City Council meeting of June the 2nd 2015 to order. Sandra would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? Here. Luture? Present. Long? Here. Gray? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Tennant? Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation, under God, indivisible,
 with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. Good evening. First order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the May 19, 2015 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-25 and to authorize the purchase of two pumps and motors for the airport north lift station from Evans Enterprises Incorporated in the amount of $42,010 plus applicable sales taxes. Number three, a resolution to approve a multi-jurisdictional application by the City of Federal and the City of Springdale.
 and Washington County for 2015 Body Worn Camera Pilot Implementation Program matching grant in the amount of $133,000 with the matching portion paid by the City of Federal in the amount of 51,000, the City of Springdale in the amount of 51,000, and Washington County in the amount of 31,000. And number four, resolution to authorize the Professional Design Services Agreement
 with progressive trail design llc for the preparation of the kessler mountain trails master plan in a mount not to exceed 26 320 and to approve a project contingency any amount of two thousand six hundred and thirty two dollars maybe accept the consent agenda is read second have a motion is second to accept the consent consent agenda is red sondra would you please call the world shopper yes
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay moved on finished
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-4965 for approximately 642 acres located at the southern end of Rupert Road from RA Residential Agriculture, RSF1 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF4 Resident
 4 units per acre and RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation CS community services, UT urban thoroughfare and RA residential agricultural will entertain a motion to go to the second read second of the motion a second to go to the second reading sandwich please tell the road shop. Yes, yes, right, yes, March, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
 And ordinance rezoning that property is described in a rezoning petition RZN 15-4965 for approximately 642 acres located at the southern end of Rupa Road from residential agricultural, residential single-family one unit per acre, residential single-family four units per acre, and residential single-family eight units per acre to neighborhood conservation, community services, urban thoroughfare, and residential agricultural.
 Okay, Chairman. Mayor, Council, I don't have anything new on this item, but just as a reminder, this is a staff-initiated rezoning request that came about as part of a discussion along the RuPaul Road extension, which will begin later this summer. Staff reviewed our city plan 2030 documents and has made a recommendation that went forward through the Planning Commission, was recommended to you all.
 at the Planning Commission meeting after two meetings which they discussed the rezoning. And they recommended unanimously in favor of rezoning the properties contained within the Rupel, essentially bounded by the Rupel Road corridor north of MLK, south of Persimmon, contained about 642 acres to three different zoning districts, neighborhood conservation,
 community services. Urban thoroughfare and then also resigning the portions that are environmental sensitive. The site to residential agriculture, which is our lowest intensity type of use. What questions this Council have for chairman anything we're going to open up for some public comment now here's the rules everybody gets one turn at the mark. You need to have your name and address.
 address the chair don't engage Council member another member of the public okay. By women on that. Stay on top and if you're not on topic on the say you need to get back on top so don't take fans because if I think you're off topic, I'm going to try and get you back on. I don't want any hand clapping laughing booing Jerry young the usual. Exciting things that you think you might be able to do to see the council made.
 So we're not allowed that okay. Who would like to be first addresses tonight. We have no public comment on the right back to the council. I move we go the 3rd and final reading second. We have a motion second to go to the 3rd and final reading Sondra would you please call the roll. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-4965 for approximately 642 acres located at the southern end of Rupa Road from residential agricultural, residential single family one unit per acre, residential single family four units per acre, residential single family eight units per acre to neighborhood conservation, community services, urban thoroughfare, and residential agricultural.
 Okay. What final comments do we have from the Council on this? Mark. I've mentioned this before, and I think that it's important to bring up again. We are, this is a very large parcel. The area that we're talking about here is going to open up a vast amount of land to all sorts of development. The different areas along this corridor have a lot of different areas.
 elements and I want to be sure that there is a good understanding that if a Developer comes in and we have zoned something and I think that we still have the right to go back and look at rezoning This is just the first step here That they're not caught by surprise because as someone comes in and starts developing this area and
 and they're looking at the zoning as it is in the map, and this is a very broad brush stroke, up and down a very large amount of property. They're going to start looking at what they find as the appropriate development according to the zoning that we're passing here this evening. However, as we start the corridor, and we start developing the corridor, we have to be very attentive
 to the implications of the development as it gets started. I'm going to support this evening with reservation, but I do want public record to show that this is step one and that we still have the obligation as the city council to look at this property as the development progresses to see if there's any zoning needs that have to be reevaluated.
 There are some sensitive environmental properties along here, I think that they've been identified in a very broad way, a very general way, but as the development proceeds, we might see that there might be further protections. And of course, as the chairman of the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, I worry about the runoff, the management of the stormwater as we proceed forward with this very large acreage.
 and the fact that it's going to be going into that watershed in that area, and we have to manage it responsibly. So I did want to have that on record. I am going to support this as the staff has presented a broad picture of the opportunity for development with this broad zoning
 But I don't think anyone should be surprised as the development occurs if there are quick questions raised and some properties have to be rezone down the line. So I wanted that to be on public record. Any other comments? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Number two, in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 15-50-04 for approximately 17.37 acres located south of Pumpkin Ridge Road from RA Residential Agriculture to RSF 2 Residential Single Family, two units per acre.
 I'll obtain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5004 for approximately 17 and a half acres located south of Pumpkin Ridge Road from residential agricultural to residential single family two units per acre. Chairman.
 This rezoning request was also discussed at the last city council meeting. It is located in southeast Fayetteville off of Pumpkin Ridge Drive, which is near the Stonebridge Meadows Golf Course development. The property was proposed for a rezoning to RSF2, residential single family, two units per acre. That proposal was recommended for denial by the Planning Commission with a vote of 8-1, and the staff did not support this item either.
 Okay, what questions do we have in City Council? Anything? Okay. Okay. Now we're gonna take public comment Same rules apply everybody gets one turn at the microphone need to have your name and address Please address the chair which would be me do not engage City Council member or a member of the public stay on topic No hand clapping laughing or booing be courteous to one another. Okay. All right. Now who would like to be first? Oh
 My name is Jay Ray and I live on Cherry Hills Drive. I'm the second home prior to the road going up to Fallen Waters. I have seven pictures. I would like to show you the flood in 2007, 2011, and just in June. There's only seven pictures. Could I pass these around? Sure, absolutely. Thank you.
 Stonebridge Road, which is the only one that has a light that comes into Dead Horse Mountain and turns into Gulf Farm Road. That's the only road that has the lights.
 And also there's another proposal tonight with four lanes out on River Meadows that the other subdivision is going to try to get out on. There's no light there. Trying to get out on four lanes, trying to get on two lanes now. But I'm worried about the traffic, Cherry Hills Drive, across the bridge. There's a picture of the bridge in there. It's like one of very few stone bridges.
 and it's only wide enough for two cars, not two trucks. If you go two trucks, you're going to kiss each one of the mirrors. Can you imagine running down with concrete trucks, brick trucks, all the LATCO trucks coming down with, they only have three roads to come in. And the light is that Stonebridge turns into Gulf Farm Road. And then you have River Meadows that has a white pyramid right in the middle that says, Welcome to Stonebridge Meadows.
 There's only room enough to get a car and a regular truck between the banks on both sides which are rock in the center. Then you only have Roberts. Roberts is a road that's beat up to death and it has three to four foot drop offs. There's no shoulder whatsoever.
 So I'm worried about the traffic and I'm worried about the flood. The water is just going to wipe out us. There's two culverts at the entrance of Fallen Waters, and it can't handle it. If you look at those pictures, you'll see houses at the end of Cherry Hills underwater, flooded. And you can see those pictures. And I've got dates on them. And I thank you very much, sir. Thank you. You know, I'm a little bit remiss here. I probably should have asked the applicant if they would like to say something before we started public comment. I apologize for that. Robert?
 Okay, dope. All right, who would like to be next? My name is Gregory Carter, and I live at 2045 South Cherry Hills Drive. I'm probably three houses down from the proposed entrance to Falling Waters.
 We brought up the floods. I know that I have a lot of concerns. I'm bringing up something that I don't understand, and that was when I've been to three of these meetings, and one of the things was said that $2.5 million was spent to bring in sewer and sewage,
 and and water for this subdivision and and 8 850,000 I believe was spent primarily by Mr. Carlton and that's for falling waters but the way this looks proposed to me they're not going to use any of that they're going to hook on to the existing facilities at the end of pumpkin ridge which I can see
 I live at the top are we have a gradual incline I would say I you can't call it a hill but I'm at the top of it and when we had that one major flood I had debris in my yard down at the bottom two houses had water in their house now the idea of more water coming down that street is my major concern and I also had the.
 had them say that this was promised before. This subdivision was all okayed by everybody. Well, that was 10 years ago, and at that time, they were gonna have an entrance at Pumpkin Ridge and an entrance at Deadstone Mountain. Now they're just gonna have one entrance in and out with 30 houses up there, and to me, the idea of that, the idea of the flooding, the idea of the construction traffic was only one way in and out,
 and because of the only light that we have in that area they're going to come stonebridge they're going to come up dead horse mountain and they could continue on if they would put a road there so what i would ask the city council if you're in if you're believing that you want to vote yes on this
 Would you reconsider and maybe possibly get to have the builders and the city planning commission get together and maybe readdress these issues? Because we all have a lot tied up in this community, and we're really worried about this. Thank you for letting me talk. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Come on in.
 My name is Casey Weathers. I live at 2080 South Pumpkin Ridge, which will most likely be the first house affected by a potential subdivision going in.
 have a issue with the drainage, the current drainage situation. I for one do have to sandbag my house as it sits now, not to mention if we have additional runoff from the west side of the mountain where the proposed subdivision is to go in,
 runoff will come down into the storm drains that cannot handle the water as it is. I also have concerns, safety concerns, about the additional traffic loading within Pumpkin Ridge and then Cherry Hills onto Gulf Farm with the infrastructure that we currently have
 no sidewalks on portion of Goff Farm. There's a lot of biking, running. There's just a lot of safety concerns with that amount of more traffic coming in. I also second the idea of having a second entrance or more of a primary entrance into
 off of Deadhorse Mountain Road rather than coming through a subdivision that can't handle any other traffic issues as it is It's just a safety concern for the kids everybody that plays in the subdivision as it is now I'd really like there to be some consideration for the for the current safety aspect and I know that there's some some wheels turning with the whole the
 the dollar amount that was put in years past with the 800 850 there's been some other numbers tossed around if you take a look
 The residents on Cherry Hills and Pumpkin Ridge have a lot more in stake than $800,000 in their residences than what's going on now. I'm just concerned that the decision-making process would be more based on the dollar than it is about the environmental and the safety aspect of it. Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Please, come on up. Thank you.
 Chairman, my name is Dr. Craig Rennie. I'm an associate professor of finance. I'd like to think I know something about political economy. My address is 2005 South Cherry Hills Drive. So I'm part of the neighborhood for which we've heard some very eloquent talk already about issues.
 First off, I'd like to make a comment about the dollar amount and the fact that there was some prior spending. First of all, the amounts that have been sent are sunk costs and therefore not relevant to current decision making.
 What concerns me chiefly is the fact that the city staff have made a decision that it would not be a good idea to proceed with this rezoning. Some of the other residents have made the point about floods.
 I've had to drive in this subdivision in 2007 where I had to take a run to get up Cherry Hills Drive and there was a 20-foot wave on either side of my truck as I was barely able to make it. Pumpkin Ridge was the only other route in and you couldn't possibly get through that as well. We have a serious flooding situation that Falling Waters, appropriately named, is going to exacerbate, make much worse.
 I'm most especially concerned, however, about safety. When the city staff tell you that rezoning is a bad idea, trying to build a new subdivision, going through an existing subdivision with issues about traffic that some of the residents have talked about, I'm concerned that some little kid is going to get injured or killed.
 So I think it's a serious issue to go against the judgment, the recommendations of the professionals here, the city planners. Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to address this? Please come on up.
 Hello, my name is Greg Zek. I live on Oakmont Drive in the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision. My question simply follows up on maybe a bit more abstract basis what my neighbors have been saying and that is for the sake of clarification may I ask you what
 legally exactly might if anything be required in the way of environmental studies or Traffic studies before such projects as the two of them that we're discussing tonight are launched or considered in other words the falling waters and the plaza and
 Is the city obligated to consider environmental and safety aspects? Is it legally required to do so either through municipal law, county, state, federal, whatever? That's a point that's not really clear to me and perhaps to my neighbors. The city council and the planning commission also can consider traffic safety issues, both for rezoning and also for development.
 Traffic safety is one that actually is relevant to both of those decisions. The environmental matters.
 If you mean by that like drainage and things like that certainly drainage we have a whole drainage manual You see the city engineer sitting over there He will evaluate or his staff would evaluate any drainage proposals during development So that is something that's going to be considered if a preliminary plat or large-scale development is being proposed a development proposal But not a rezoning proposal. So those questions are
 have been or have not necessarily been considered to date? Well, the development cannot be proposed until the land is properly zoned. And so if the land is zoned so someone can propose a development at that point, then certainly traffic is also gonna be considered at that point in time. And also drainage and many other concerns can be looked at and addressed at that point in time. And I would defer to Jeremy Pate,
 development services director to add any further comments you might want to have sure so um the process which we oftentimes have to explain in fayetteville and it's very similar in a lot of other communities is the rezoning is a land use decision it's a policy decision by the city council a legislative decision
 and as opposed to an administrative decision, which is what a development essentially is. So this body here reviews this policy decision determining primarily if the land use is compatible, looking at traffic safety, noise. There's a whole list of...
 Criteria that have been utilized in certain cases legally throughout the state of Arkansas to consider a zoning rezoning decision Well, we don't look at however are the minimum standards for development Which that really comes through with if a zoning is approved a development application is submitted goes through the Planning Commission We look at things like drainage tree preservation parkland dedication whether
 whether the streets meet our minimum standard requirements detention ponds green space all those things are considered and the developer is then required to meet those minimum thresholds established by this council as part of our unified development thank you sure who else good evening my name is larry altman i live at 2059 cherry hills drive in stonebridge meadows mr mayor council members um i would just like to say that
 This proposed development of Falling Waters represents the worst kind of suburban sprawl. Because it's not just about 30 houses being built on 17.3 acres on a wooded hillside on the edge of Fayetteville. It's about the developers trying to piecemeal their development, which by their own lawyer's admission two weeks ago, they would like to build as many as 120 houses.
 they would like to take it on out across this wooded hillside over to dead horse mountain road problem is they don't want to ask for this all at one time so they decided to slow roll the city council we all know that they will come back in a couple of years and ask for 30 or 50 more houses and we all know that this is called piecemealing a development until you get exactly what you want in a couple more years they will argue that their request
 is compatible with the 30 homes that they just built. It's called suburban sprawl. You can put as much lipstick on a pig as you want, but it's still a pig. Their lawyer, Mr. Rhodes, has made the argument that they're building just eight homes on this 17.3 acres would not be economically viable. Well, if they spent $850,000
 to bring in the water and sewer under the White River, they would need to add about $27,000 to each one of those 30 homes, just to break even on that $800,000 that they invested, which was by the way over on the industrial park side where Riverwalk is, and now they're proposing to connect to the existing water and sewer lines in Stonebridge Meadows.
 Why are they doing that? Why aren't they connecting to that $850,000 water line that they brought in over there by Riverwalk across the White River at the industrial park? If I'm not mistaken, I believe that Stonebridge Meadows already had its water and sewer developed by this time, and the residents of Stonebridge Meadows are not benefiting from that $850,000 investment. Well, I don't know.
 They would need to add $27,000 to each one of the houses just to make up for the $850,000. That's not even taking into account the cost of building a street, sidewalks, and extending all the utilities out. They'll need to extend Pumpkin Ridge Drive 400 feet just to get to their property. And that's going through Mr. Meadows' property.
 The only way for this development to be economically viable is for the developers to build at least 120 homes. We know it, we know it, they know it, and the city council members should realize it, that you're being slow rolled on this rezoning appeal. We know that they're going to come back and ask for more later. It may be some different city council members by that time.
 and they won't know what has happened or transpired in the past. We're only building what we've already developed here. So don't tell me that it's only going to be 30 homes and 17.3 acres for this rezoning. That dog won't hunt. I just don't believe it.
 Pumpkin Ridge Drive will need to be extended 400 feet to get to this property and another 2,500 feet to serve these 30 homes. Public water and sewer is not available at the site. However, an 8-inch water may not exist in the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision and will need to be extended 2,500 feet. Public sewer is not available to the site. Again, the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision will need to be extended 2,500 feet to serve this development.
 So you have to ask yourself, is this really economically viable to build just 30 homes? I don't think so. And I'm fairly certain that the developers don't think so. This rezoning is just another piecemeal proposal. What about the cost to the city of Fayetteville? True, the upfront cost will be borne by the developer, but the maintenance of this costly infrastructure will become the responsibility of the city for many years to come. All for the sake of just 30 houses?
 I don't think so because you have to got to know that this is about more than just 30 houses and 17.3 acres. Their lawyer, Mr. Rhodes, stated two weeks ago that there won't be any traffic problems associated with this development now that we have the traffic light out on Highway 16 at Stonebridge and I hope that
 that most of the city council members and the mayor had an opportunity to go out to Stonebridge and visit the property and take a look at what's out there. I hope that you made a right hand turn at that stoplight on Stonebridge and came down the road, down Dead Horse Mountain Road, onto Golf Farm Road, and then down the Cherry Hills Drive, which they are proposing is going to be pretty much the only entrance and exit
 to this development. Right now, as they are proposing, it will be the only entrance and exit to this development, going through another neighborhood, all the way through it, down Cherry Hills Drive. So after you make that right-hand turn at Stonebridge, you're faced with a veritable obstacle course to get to the proposed development. I'd like to take you on just a short little windshield tour if you don't mind, and just take a couple of minutes
 what you will encounter after you make that right hand turn at that traffic light on Highway 16 onto Stonebridge. Well, Stonebridge only goes about a tenth of a mile, and you come to a blind curve to your left to turn onto Dead Horse Mountain Road. This road quickly turns into a narrow two-lane blacktop, no shoulder, and earthen ditches on both sides. Another tenth of a mile, and you quickly come to a curve to the right.
 to head up on Dead Horse Mountain Road. By the way, there was an accident there at that curve sometime last night or this morning, and I saw workers out there replacing the guardrail in that curve that I'm just now talking about.
 Another two-tenths of a mile further up to the bridge, you come to the bridge that crosses the West Fork River. That's a fairly new bridge. It's been kind of built up high. And the road has flooded at both ends of that bridge, both before and after the bridge. On numerous occasions, it happened, I believe, three times during the month of May. Most recently, just last weekend, the Memorial Day weekend.
 Another half mile up the road you come to a left-hand turn onto Gulf Farm Road. This left-hand turn is at the bottom of a steep hill where oncoming traffic from Dead Horse Mountain comes zooming down the hill.
 You have to be especially careful if you're making a left-hand turn from Goff Farm Road onto Dead Horse Mountain Road because of the traffic zooming down that hill. And I want to add, by the way, that right now it's a blind curve because there's so many weeds growing up there that you can't see down Dead Horse Mountain looking up the
 Two-tenths of a mile further up Golf Farm Road, you encounter a golf cart crossing that is poorly marked. Golf carts going back and forth from the 18th hole and out to the driving range, from the clubhouse to the driving range and from the 18th hole back to the clubhouse. So you have golf carts going across that road. There's no crosswalk there. There's a little tiny sign that you can't really see.
 You have golf carts going across that road. By the way, all of this road I've just described is two-lane blacktop, no shoulder, ditches on both sides. Barely enough room for two cars to get through. Um, let's see, go up another tenth of a mile and you come to another blind curve to the right. Numerous accidents have occurred at this curve.
 You go another one-tenth of a mile and you make another left-hand turn, make another turn to the left, into yet another blind curve. Okay, all of these curves down there, going around that clubhouse, are blind curves because of the terrain and the trees and shrubs. And then another tenth of a mile, you come to Gough Farm Road Bridge. Okay, it's an historical bridge, it's at least a hundred years old.
 It's on the National Register of Historical Places. It's a hand-built stone bridge. I hope you guys had an opportunity to take a look at that. It's one of only two of its kind in the whole state of Arkansas. The problem with that is it's very narrow. It's only enough room for two compact cars to get through. A truck and a car can't get through. And certainly a cement truck or any kind of big vehicle
 You have to let them through one at a time. We don't know what the, well we know what the weight limit is on that bridge, but we don't know what the actual structural viability of that bridge is. It's so old that who knows, I mean it could collapse at any time when it, maybe when a cement truck is going across it. There's no, there's nothing to prevent anything from going across that bridge. Anyway, we've talked about that before.
 It is something that we need to preserve and we'd like to keep it. It is kind of the namesake for our community, Stonebridge Meadows. Well, after you cross the bridge another tenth of a mile, you come to Cherry Hills Drive where you'll need to make a right-hand turn. But as you make that right-hand turn, there is another golf cart crossing right there at the turn that you're making. You may not see the golf carts coming across.
 They might be thinking about golf and not thinking about the traffic, but there's a golf cart crossing right there. There's another golf cart crossing, by the way, down, further down Golf Farm Bridge. So there's three places where golf carts cross in this community. It is a golfing community. Well, if you head down Cherry Hills Drive, I want to remind you or make you aware that there are lots of children playing on this street.
 All the way from newborn through high school, there's kids up and down that street who like to play in the street. Kids aren't supposed to play in the street, but kids do play in the street. Kids don't always do what they're supposed to do. There's a lot of children playing on that street, all the way from the beginning of Cherry Hills all the way down to the end. Well, another three-tenths of a mile, you come down Cherry Hills Drive and you come to the stop at Pumpkin Ridge where you'll need to make another right-hand turn to enter the proposed development.
 That's a sharp, by the way, it's not just a, it's a sharp turn there. It's a 90-degree angle, almost. But some have argued that the city council is not making any decision about the traffic safety or the drainage issues or any of the other concerns that we have voiced here tonight and two weeks ago, that you're only making a decision about the rezoning issues.
 But you're not making a decision in a vacuum. You know good and well that once you make the decision about the rezoning, that all of these other things are going to happen because the development, once the developer has the rezoning, he's got the green light to go forward with the development. So you are, in essence, making a decision about all these other issues concerning this property.
 It comes with the territory, and we, the residents of Stonebridge Meadows, will have to live with your decision for years to come. So as you prepare to make your decision about rezoning tonight, please consider this. Are you deciding what's best for the environment, what's best for this community, and for the city of Fayetteville, or are you simply giving in to the demands of yet another developer who is only interested in turning a profit? Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor, City Council Members, my name is Wanda Altman. I live in 2059 South Cherry Hills Drive. I have a couple of issues of concern, but one of my major concerns is the environmental impact of this rezoning on this pristine mountainside on the periphery of Fayetteville. This property is just the kind of land that should be protected and preserved under the City Plan 2030, and the rezoning would represent a reversal of city policy.
 In its staff memo, the City Planning Commission in April stated that the proposed rezoning is not consistent with the land planning objectives, policies, or plans, and increasing the density of this property would only encourage more development on the edge of the city and set a new policy for development in southeast Fayetteville. So not only would it be a reversal of policy, but it would actually be setting new policy that is inconsistent with the current policy.
 I know I've been told repeatedly that the 2030 plan is just a guideline. It's not set in stone. I understand that, but I think it's more important than that. A lot of time and money were spent crafting it. In-house man hours of some 50 staff members were spent. A series of public meetings were held to get public input.
 Newspaper ads were run, flyers were made and distributed, and then the city council unanimously adopted it in 2011, just four years ago. As I asked last time, what's changed in those four years? Four years really isn't very long when you're talking about a 2030 plan. What's changed that would call for a reversal or a setting of new policy? I think that this 2030 plan is a tool, an important tool.
 to help us to make, help you to make responsible decisions, to make sure that Fayetteville goes in the direction that we would like it to go and becomes or stays the kind of city in which we would all like to live. City planning, I believe, is currently working on an update which includes more staff hours and this time, I think, a hired consultant. This is one of those mandatory periodic updates of the plan but why do this?
 Why spend all these man hours? Why spend this money? Why call in the public? Why hire a consultant? Why have a plan if we're going to abandon or reverse it at the needs of a developer? One of the issues I'm told that the city council is concerned about is compatibility. Is this proposed rezoning compatible with what's there? And that's where it becomes a key issue.
 The differentiation between property on the periphery and property that's well inside the city, like Summit Place, for example, off of Township. Now, Summit Place is a steep hillside, but it's surrounded on all sides by development. There's already housing all around it. There's already utilities all around it. But in the case of this mountain, yeah, you have Stonebridge Meadows on one side to the north. But what's on the other sides? Yes.
 And is it compatible with that? Well, let's see. On the south, southeast, southwest, we have behind this mountain another undeveloped mountain, and behind that, there's another mountain. Just between Stonebridge Meadows and this proposed development is an open pastureland with, yes, cows. Cows grazing. You may have seen them when you were out there.
 If you continue south along Dead Horse Mountain Road, you'll see sparsely populated farmland. So not really compatible with another development. And frankly, if we're talking about suburban sprawl or stopping suburban sprawl,
 We can always use one housing development to justify another and say, well, it's compatible with this. And as somebody mentioned, well, this 30 houses is compatible with Stonebridge. And then later, well, guess what? This next 30 or 40 is compatible with the 30 that we just built. And there's no end to that. There's no end to that. It just continues to sprawl out, and that's not part of our Fayetteville long-term city plan.
 Again, the Planning Commission said this property is surrounded by large agricultural and forested property, and introducing more suburban development in this area is incompatible with the prevailing land use in the area. Now, I know we've heard a lot about promises made, promises made and money spent. In 2006, the original PZD was approved. Developers had five years to follow through with that.
 It's not as if the city of Fayetteville yanked the rug out from under the developers. They didn't say six months later or a year later or three years later, oh, just kidding, never mind, we've changed our mind. We don't want to go through with this development.
 The developers dropped the ball. They let the PZD expire. And now to come back nine, ten years later in 2015 and try to say, well, promises were made way back in 2006, that really shouldn't be relevant today in 2015.
 The owner himself in his letter of appeal to the city council said, and I quote here, I realize that the financial implications are my problem and not the city's. And that's exactly right. He's the one who didn't follow through. He had an approval, he had a green light, he had five years and he may have even had an extension, I'm not sure. But I know he had five years and then when he hadn't done it, the property was rezoned to fall back into line with the 2030 plan.
 Because things have changed. Fayetteville had a new direction and a new vision and a new city plan.
 But frankly, the developers aren't the only ones who have invested money here. As someone said, every homeowner out there has invested money, $250,000, $300,000, $350,000 on our home and property. Our collective investments are more than this $850,000 that we keep hearing so much about. And we have a lot to lose from increased flood risk, increased traffic, our streets being turned into mudslides and construction sites.
 The developers stand to gain economically, but unfortunately, it's going to be at our expense. We, the people of Stonebridge Meadows, but also the taxpayers of Fayetteville. And I would like to add on to what Mr. Carter said about this $850,000 investment.
 Again, referring to the owner's letter of appeal to the city council. He said that they along with, I think they said three other partners, spent the money to bring the water and sewage underneath the White River and across for not just for falling waters, and certainly not for Stonebridge Meadows. But for several new developments that were being built or proposed in that area. One of which is Riverwalk.
 Now, Riverwalk has won at least one of the same owners and developers that's involved in this appeal tonight. And that development is up and going. Houses have been built and sold and people are living there. So the developers are receiving a return on their investment as far as this $850,000 is concerned. They're already receiving a return on their investment.
 They're not hooking into that. Those utilities, I believe from looking at the map today, that the city has provided as part of the packet, those utilities went under the White River, they went across Dead Horse Mountain, and out onto the edge of Stonebridge Meadows Golf Course.
 somewhat north of the Falling Waters property, but over on the Dead Horse Mountain side. And it's my understanding, based on the packet that we've all received, that the connectivity here for utilities is from the Stonebridge Meadows side, from the Cherry Hills-Pumpkin Ridge Drive side, and not even connecting to those utilities that we've heard so much about and spending so much money and needing to get their money back.
 So it seems to me $850,000 invested and not being used for this rezoning appeal, not being used in this property at all, not being used for these 30 houses, is really somewhat of a moot point. One of the things—I've talked to a lot of people, some of you know that, over the last two weeks, sent a lot of emails, made phone calls. One of the things that's really stuck in my mind
 is something that someone told me, and I will quote this to get it right. The City Council can't worry about the negative impact of its decisions. Things like flooding and increased traffic and safety issues. If it did, we wouldn't ever have any new developments. And I'll repeat that because it really stuck in my mind. The City Council can't worry about the negative impact of its decisions.
 Can that be right? I mean, is that any way to run a city? Great cities don't just happen. They're planned carefully and responsibly, one decision at a time. So as you prepare to vote, to make up your mind about this, this is not just another piece of property. It's a big part of what makes Fayetteville a beautifully unique place to live, and why many of us have chosen to live here.
 What kind of a city, I ask myself, and I hope that you will ask yourself too, what kind of a city will Fayetteville be in 2030? Is it going to be that beautifully unique city that we're planning for, or is it going to just kind of evolve into something totally different because we make not carefully thought out and not necessarily responsible decisions but just kind of go with the flow? What kind of city will Fayetteville be in 2030? Thank you.
 We had just one chance to get this right. We can always turn a pristine mountainside into another housing development. We can't turn a housing development back into a pristine mountainside. Therefore, I urge you, actually, I implore you, this is personal, I implore you to vote no on this rezoning appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Who would be next? Mayor, council members. Mm-hmm.
 My name's Edwin Williams, 1901 Pumpkin Ridge, Stonebridge Meadows. I'd like to thank you all for giving me the opportunity to speak to you tonight. Personally, it takes a lot for me to get up in front of people and speak publicly, but so this speaks volumes as to how much I feel about this particular item. I feel it very important that
 this development that this area remain in its pristine natural environment the environmental impact that this development is going to create i think is going to alter the landscape i feel forever it's going to change what i personally fell in love with when i came to fayetteville what i saw in stonebridge meadows
 And I question as to whether an impact statement or an impact study, environmental impact study, has ever been conducted on this. I think it should be. I doubt that it has. But I feel that it should be done before any decision is made that will ultimately change the landscape of this area. I also, it's been mentioned too about the city plan 2030.
 I'm not going to go into any great detail on that. But I just want to mention, ask you, why was it developed? Why is a city plan 2040 supposedly under development now? I feel it's because the people of Fayetteville, our leadership, has a vision for what we want and what you want, what the residents of Fayetteville wants this city to look like in 2030 and beyond.
 Is that being accomplished? I know it's not being, I know that the plan is now written in stone. It's a guide. It's like having a policy. You can deviate from the policy if the situation warrants. I feel this situation does not warrant deviating from that 2030 plan. I'm retired military. I've lived numerous places around the country, several big cities. I've seen urban sprawl.
 I've seen the negative consequences of urban sprawl. It's never been pretty. It's always created more problems than the problems it solved. Arkansas is named the natural state. That resonated with me the moment I heard that quality about Arkansas. And I feel that the city of Fayetteville
 the residents of Fayetteville believe in that same statement too, the natural state. We believe in living with the natural environment that was created for us to enjoy. Building this subdivision, as I said, will ultimately change the face of Fayetteville. And I feel that changing that environment for the sake of change is not a good thing. Destroying a hillside and eventually a mountain
 for the sake of progress is not a good thing it needs to be wisely thought out needs to be studied needs to be thought through needs to have some feeling behind it is this what we want is this what we want our city to become and if all those answers are yes then it's your obligation to move forward on it but if you have doubt question the answers or the question the answers you're being being told
 It's been inferred too that flooding is not a real problem in Stonebridge Meadows. You obviously weren't there the three times that the areas flooded in May. I wasn't not personally here in 2011 when they had that torrential rainstorm that flooded Cherry Hills and Pumpkin Ridge. Hopefully you were all sent pictures today of what that looked like. It was not pretty.
 that was well beyond any thought of further development in this particular area. It's kind of ironic that this proposed development is called Falling Waters because that's exactly what happens. The water runs downhill into Stonebridge Meadows, and we pay the price for that. Consider the wildlife that's going to be displaced. Consider the land and the trees that are going to be destroyed. I'm not a developer.
 I'm not a builder, but I do know through observation that when a development goes in, and there's a lot of trees, they got to clear cut the trees. They got to make room for the land plots, the streets, and so forth. It's been said that this is only the start, and I feel that it is. There's more than 120 homes planned for this particular area. It's going to destroy that mountain and Stonebridge Meadow,
 And I feel the citizens of Fayetteville do not want that mountain destroyed. There is a quick addendum that I wanna add that's been alluded to, that the primary route for the trucking, construction equipment is going to be through Stone Bridge, Goff Farm Road, and across that historic little, I call it lane and a half bridge, because that's basically what it is.
 Two small cars can get across there at the same time. But if you've got an SUV, you dare not, a smaller car dare not try to butt heads with an SUV crossing that. I've also come across some figures too that a standard 18-wheel flatbed truck weighs about 14,000 pounds. Stonebridge is what I've discovered has a load rating of about 18,000 pounds. So when a truck comes through there,
 Fully loaded it's going to well surpass the load capacity of that bridge if you've been up underneath the bridge Looked at the under structure You can see cracks in it already when a concrete truck goes across there and all the other construction equipment There's going to be extra stress put on an already fragile bridge It suits the day-to-day needs of the residents, but it will not suit the
 or be able to withstand, I feel, the constant daily pounding of construction equipment running across it for days and weeks, perhaps months on end. So I want you to ask yourself, what's the best thing for this city? What's the best thing for the residents of Fayetteville? What are the best things for the residents of Stonebridge Meadows? We want to maintain
 the natural beauty that we fell in love with when we decided to move in Stonebridge Meadows. Take that decision. Don't take that decision lightly. Consider it carefully. I know you'll do the right thing and make the right choice. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you. Hi, my name is Laura Phillips. I live at 2055 South Klein. I have never been to Stonebridge Meadows. I have, on the other hand, bought a house in Fayetteville in the last 12 months.
 the housing market in this city is insane we're one of the fastest growing cities in the u.s much less the mid-south progress is always painful change is painful losing trees losing what had been a beautiful wooded backyard is painful what's also painful is families trying to find affordable housing in good school districts in a pleasant atmosphere
 And I took a look on Zillow. Some of those houses in the Stonebridge area are between 260,000 and 300,000. When those were built, construction traffic had to get there to build them, probably using the same bridge. It would stand to reason if there was going to be improvements, we could maybe fix that bridge. But my point is...
 nobody nobody wants a housing development in their backyard but this town is growing it is a vibrant beautiful town people move here people need houses thank you hi i'm diane waters i live at 2032 pumpkin ridge and i'm a relatively new resident to fayetteville i've only been here a few years when we came in we spent i think it was three months trying to find a house that we liked in a neighborhood that we liked
 I'm a mother, a grandmother, a wife whose husband spent 30 years in the military. So we've been a lot of places as well. And when we came to Fayetteville and we went into Stonebridge and we looked at the house that we ended up buying, when I go in my backyard, I'm looking at a mountain. I'm looking at a field with cows and horses and deer and ducks and geese.
 When I look out my front yard where the street is, I see children playing. I have three dogs, and I see cats and dogs out being walked and sometimes running loose. I've rescued a few turtles that are on the road that have come in from the ponds that are around there. And I fell in love with Stonebridge because it's unique, it's beautiful, it's quiet, and it's a neighborhood.
 And I hope that that neighborhood can stay with the same environment and beauty and comfort and safety that we enjoy now. Because if it deteriorates, I feel really badly for everyone that currently lives there and anybody that tries to move to Fayetteville and enjoy the luxury and the environment that we enjoy now. So thank you. Thank you. Who else? Yes.
 Tom, Luke Demeyer. I'm on 2031 Cherry Hills. And I guess a lesson for me tonight is read your email before you come to these things because I missed the memo about the $800,000.
 or at least a good portion of that money on the other side, helping that other subdivision they have on the other side of Dead Horse Mountain. So I was led to believe that was all out of the kindness of their heart or something like that last week. Again, like I said two weeks ago, I'm not against people building and making money, and like the lady said just there, people need houses. I understand that.
 And I said two weeks ago, I just wanted to be done right. There's no reason why it shouldn't, the street shouldn't come off Dead Horse Mountain. I was told, well, they're just gonna build these 30 homes, but like one of my other neighbors said, it's gonna continue to grow. And everything is gonna be done off of Pumpkin Ridge. I have no reason to believe
 because they testified before that this was all done out of the kindness of their heart, that they're going to actually make a road to Dead Horse Mountain. So we're going to continue with more homes, all dumping onto Cherry Hills and Pumpkin Ridge, little side streets, and that is going to take people's property values down. And if I was going to listen to the logic, well, it's going to bring the property values up,
 I just think if you would buy that house across 16 where they just widened 16 and the guy now has very little front yard and traffic going by in the in that logic I would say oh that guy's just had his property values increased well everybody knows you wouldn't pay a plug nickel for that property because it's right on a busy road nobody is going to want to buy on a busy road
 My neighbors already talked about the flooding and all that other stuff, and I don't see a reason to reiterate all that stuff. It's all been said. But there are 80 or so investors on Pumpkin Ridge and on Cherry Hills, and I'm going to come back to that. About a year ago, this body passed an ordinance, a civil rights ordinance,
 And you may have done that for political reasons, but you probably did it because you don't want an investor. This is what I read in the paper. You don't want investors, big people, people with money, to just be able to run over the average citizen that has nothing. You passed that ordinance so people were protected against abuse from other people. So, yeah.
 And, you know, so when I weigh this out, what's more important? One investor with an $800,000 investment or 80 investors that have the same loss, that are going to have the same loss if this is passed? Who do you value more? You can't make a decision just on, based on those merits because there's investors on both sides. And both stand to lose.
 when if we just did it the right way, those investors can make money, houses can be built, the street can be built with the proper runoffs and the proper water disposal, and it can be done right. But under this plan, and if you agree to this plan, it's not gonna be done that way. All we're asking for is for it to be done right.
 And that's the last appeal I just want to make to you guys. If the plan was to do it the right way, you'd have a lot less backlash from this. Thank you for your time. Thank you. My name is Jeannie Stutzman. I live at 3970 East Spyglass Hill in Stonebridge Meadows. And I would just like to echo what he said about
 growth and development where nobody's going to stand in the way of it change is inevitable but our sincere desire here is that this gets done the right way and i believe access off of dead horse mountain road would be the best way to get something started up there where they can bring the construction vehicles in there instead of through the neighborhood um
 I also own another property in Stonebridge Meadows and have an investment similar to the $800,000 that the gentleman was talking about earlier. And I will do everything I can to protect that investment, and I do believe that the flooding is an issue. So I would appreciate your reconsidering this and doing something that would be in the best interest of everybody that lives in the Stonebridge Meadows neighborhood.
 I'm Sue Garland. I live at 1039 South River Meadows Road. And I wasn't going to say anything tonight, but I've been listening to my neighbors talk, and they've been so eloquent about the flooding, the concerns about lost property values. I want to bring us back just for a minute to...
 the environmental issues. No, I don't want it done right. I want it not done. What we're talking about tonight is not what kind of a development they're going to put in there. We're talking, I believe, about rezoning so that they can put a development in there. We're talking about a hillside that is beautifully wooded
 that is populated with wildlife and it needs to be preserved.
 That bridge that we've talked about, that somebody said was surely 100 years old, from all I've been able to find out, it was built in 1860. It's a hand-built bridge. It is one of two bridges in this state that are on the historic register. And don't imagine that any amount of fixing that thing, once the traffic has damaged it, is going to bring it back to being
 a beautiful representation of some of the history of this county. So I just want to disagree a little bit with some of the people who have said, if you're going to do it, do it right. Let's not go there. Let's leave the zoning the way it is. Please leave us that beautiful hillside. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 Hi, I'm Adam Jones, 1819 South Cherry Hills Lane. We just bought our house a month ago and moved in there. And it was down to a house there and a house in Springdale. And what made our decision up for us was stepping out our back door, looking left, and seeing Dead Horse Mountain right there. I mean, it doesn't get any better than that. So...
 You know I agree with what she just said if it's just a zoning issue and I think we have to look at your number one guiding principle up there as you know, a naturally beautiful city are mountains and hills part of that so. I say my piece thanks thank you okay who else like to address this. Evening mayor counsel my name is Greg Mathis I live at 3848 spyglass Hill drive.
 in phase five of Stonebridge Meadows. So I'm actually in one of the last developed areas that's going in in the area. All I wanted to say is, I've moved around a lot. I've been in this area for about two years, moved from Charleston, South Carolina. Love the mountainous area, the views and everything that we have. Looked all over the area of Northwest Arkansas when we looked to find a home. For the money and for the area of Stonebridge Meadows, I don't think there's anything paralleled to it in the whole Northwest Arkansas area. It's just absolutely beautiful.
 I did look in Stone Mountain and Stone Mountain is interesting. It ought to be called architectural shingle mountain in my opinion because you drive up in there and you just see roofs. I really don't want to see Stonebridge Meadows turning into architectural shingle mountain, which is what I think would happen eventually when we develop that hillside. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Tom Stevens, 3803 East River Bluff.
 I spoke two weeks ago and my sentiments are exactly the same. I'm dead set against this. For environmental reasons now, I've done some research and I don't like what I could possibly see up there. The traffic and that stone bridge. That stone bridge is the only stone bridge in Arkansas. As far as we can tell, it's the only stone bridge. A fully loaded cement truck weighs 20 tons.
 That bridge, I understand, is rated at 16 tons. I heard that others, but 16 tons, and that was a while ago. Who knows what it's rated up to now? I've also come here to fulfill a promise to my other neighbors who couldn't make it here. I told them I would speak on their behalf, and that's what I'm doing. I would just urge you to vote against this rezoning. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 hello i'm jennifer zack i live on 4274 oakmont drive would you pull that mic down just thank you oakmont drive there it goes in stonebridge meadows and i totally agree with most of my neighbors about two things primarily one is the traffic why make a entrance to a new development through a development with families and kids
 a windy road and then you have an entrance to another development that's going up a mountain. The road is going up. We already have huge problems with runoff. For most of the month of May, I couldn't go into the backyard without wearing boots, practically, because there's so much water. Everybody knows we have clay soil with tons of rocks and the water doesn't percolate down very fast. Streets.
 paved areas cause a lot of runoff. And if it's up on a hill, it's gonna run off faster. And I'm concerned about a lot of water running down into our neighborhood. But also that it might lower the water table because it's not going down into the ground and that could change our water quality. I'm also concerned about
 about the environmental impact and the beauty of the neighborhood. One of my favorite parts of living here is going down Crossover and seeing those mountains. That's what I see when I go home every day, and I want other people to be able to see that without seeing big houses. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Thank you, Mayor. I will just make this quick. I want you all to have the same song stuck in your head that's stuck in my head and it's the Joni Mitchell song. You know, you don't know what you got till it's gone. They paved paradise and put up a parking lot. Because I am looking at the Fayetteville Vision 2020. I wanted to mention that also. You know, the first guiding principle is a- Can I get you to give us your name, please? I'm sorry. I'm Karen Mathis and I live at 3848 Spyglass Hill Drive.
 But again, I did notice the number one principle in the 2020 vision for Fayetteville is a naturally beautiful city, our mountains and hills, our creeks, our open green spaces. And does changing the zoning that's in place now, would it support that guiding principle or follow that guiding principle?
 I would hope that some consideration would be made about that bridge. We have put a call into the Historic Preservation Alliance and waiting to hear back to see what can be done in consideration of that bridge. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us? Okay, Robin.
 My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I represent Mr. Carlton and Mr. Lambert and their company, Buffington Homes. And I guess at first blush, there's been a lot of points brought up. I think most of those points I probably already addressed in some form or fashion.
 either in what I had to say two weeks ago or in Mr. Carlton's letter. And so I'm gonna spare you the desire that I have of trying to go and discuss every point that I've heard tonight. Certainly we will be more than willing to entertain questions, but I would like to just hit a few points, just a few things. And I think probably the two biggest things I'm hearing
 would be traffic and the the the buffington home folks have looked at this again since the last meeting and they still cannot come up with a way that it's financially feasible to open up a road going from dead horse mountain and but i can tell you that if this
 zoning goes through, if they're able to then build and sell those homes, those 30 homes, then, and I think they've said this publicly. I know I've said it on their behalf publicly. Yes, it is their intention to try to develop the rest of the mountain. They're still paying for the carrying costs on that mountain, so it's important to them to develop the rest of the mountain.
 The first thing that they will do if they develop one more home on the additional 120 acres is open that road and the ingress and egress will be through Dead Horse Mountain. Unfortunately, they can't do it at this stage. I would also say that the extension of Cherry Hills does allow for connectivity.
 And I think that connectivity is something that the city has had in its plan for 11 years because there's a sign that's indicated that that's been sitting there for 11 years. The other thing, the other major point that I've heard a number of times is the drainage. And I think what I'm hearing and what I
 I guess I had a slight sense that there was a drainage issue here before, but until getting really fully involved in this in the last two weeks, I didn't realize it. It's a pretty good size issue. The ordinances and the state laws and the city staff, certainly if this development is zoned and if it does go through in the development stage, they will make sure that
 the drainage is no worse. I mean that is what the law is. I think Mr. Jorgensen, the Buffington's engineer has sent you all an email indicating exactly what I've just said there. I would take it a step further and I didn't bring this up at the last meeting because I was not aware of it.
 The agreement that these developers have with the owner of the golf course is not just to divert water onto the golf course into their ponds to take care of their drainage. It is to first of all, and this is the agreement that's been in place for over 10 years. This isn't just a recent development. The agreement is to first of all expand the capacity of those retention ponds, of those ponds on the golf course.
 And I guess I will take exception to one thing I've heard. If they're allowed for this rezoning and if they go through, they will do the project right. And they will do it right in such a way that I guess logic would tell you that if you're not allowed to make drainage any worse,
 then why wouldn't you try your very hardest to make it even a, to make it better for all of the surrounding people, including the people that they want to sell homes to, but also including the people that live in Stonebridge Meadows. And as I said before, if you have other questions, we certainly will do our best to address them. Thank you. All right. Is there anybody else who would like to address the council? Yes, ma'am.
 no no no everybody gets one turn to the mic no no no come up would you pull that would you pull the mic down okay i'm vicki wright and i live at 2046 south pumpkin i have the opportunity that i work with in my line of business that we work we have developers and everything i also see that these developers when they get these books and and
 and the engineers get them out. I also know that there's probably maybe 1% of them that even read the books because they call in on minute things that if they had covered what they had in the books. And it's easy to say that they can, you know, divert the problems that we have now.
 I don't see how they can, if they're not going to, if they say that they can start their development now, use our roads, who's going to repair those roads after they're destroyed? Because it's going to continue to rain. The roads are going to crack. The water's going to get underneath that asphalt, and our roads are going to be destroyed. But yet they cannot afford to build a road theirself. We're going to have to pay the price ourselves
 for them to use our roads into our subdivision. I don't see how that can be fair to us. I'm one of the fortunate ones that lives high enough that the drainage doesn't affect me that much, but the people that are downhill from me, they have spent thousands and thousands of dollars. Some of them have lost money, had to sell their homes because they couldn't afford to fix it up and move back into it.
 So there are people that have already paid a price for this flooding, and we're going to continue to pay the price. I don't think it's right to add to it because the logic is it's going to follow the pavement. It's going to follow the pavement coming down. Everything floods out there, even the golf course. What they have out there now, the ponds they have out now, it doesn't take that hard rain for it to overflow. Please consider the fact that there are people that have already lost everything that lived there before.
 You may cause another family from this flooding and everything to lose their home and everything they've got to invest. This is a very big investment. I've lived out there six, seven years now. I have seen people that have lost their homes because they got in over their heads. But I've also seen the damage that this flooding can do in people that can't even get out. And I live up on a hill that I could see where I could even get out and go to work one day.
 The curve as you come off and turn off of 16 and the first curve to your left, I'm a slow driver. I've lost control over that, and I had a wreck. It wasn't three days later, another car had a wreck. You've got these large trucks coming in there and these other cars going, and I know how these truck drivers run. We're dealing with them already from the construction that is going on Dead Horse Mountain.
 We have our investment just as he does. But think about the people that are invested, that are paying for these homes, that once it's damaged, that's it. They've lost everything. And it is my desire, and I plead with you to consider the rezoning, to look at it, to do a study, an environmental study. And if this is passed, that a road is directly from Dead Horse Mountain Inn that they utilize for all their traffic.
 And that we can see some way, if it is passed, that some way we both benefit from it. But adding to it is you're going to lose not only taxpayer money, people that are there that are paying taxes, you're going to disrupt families too. Thank you. Anyone else?
 My name is Dan Scoff and I live at 2039 South Pumpkin Ridge Drive and I just wanted to kind of elaborate on some of the flooding issues I can tell you firsthand that the new development
 On the north side of Rodney Ryan Park, there was some, obviously we saw quite a bit of rain in the month of May, but it was not comparable to the 2011 April 25th flood that happened. And the area near Rodney Ryan Park actually did not flood as bad as it did this past Memorial Day weekend.
 And so it's a given fact that you don't have any groundwater storage with concrete. It's going to run off, it's going to flow, and that is definitely a leading cause to the flooding. And I actually talked to one of the property owners, and they said they've never experienced flooding
 flooding in an area before, even in 2011, which was a dramatic substantial flood, where we had periods of rain throughout the first couple weeks of April and then finally April 25th on that Monday afternoon, everything just finally overflowed its banks and the flooding was definitely a significant threat. As bad as that flooding was,
 It did cause, you know, actually a road closure. Of course, Dead Horse Mountain always floods with the West Fork of the White River. And you've also got the area at the intersection of Gough Farm as well as Cherry Hills, that for the first time I've ever seen flooded. But you can see all the runoff effects. Now if you look at a terrain map,
 There is clearly an elevation change in this new subdivision, this proposed subdivision. And, I mean, the name says it all, Falling Waters. It is going to be Falling Waters right into the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision right down the road. And you're not going to have the soil. You're not going to have the ground. You're not going to have the natural landscape that's going to be able to absorb that water like you would when you have the natural landscape.
 I mean, there's a reason that people, when they repair, when they do those riparian projects that the Illinois River watershed is a part of, that they plant trees and shrubs and bushes. It's to restore and preserve our watersheds, and this is going to definitely a big factor in preserving that watershed, as well as continuing to increase the flooding potential. And just as a resident,
 to have the traffic driving through Cherry Hills, which is a residential family area. When I come home during my dinner break, there's kids playing out in the street, and this is definitely gonna be an increased safety factor, as well as, you know, sad to say, crime is also an issue too, not from the residents, but from people visiting this residential area that may not be as well known to others.
 And so, you know, I highly suggest due to the natural landscape and trying to preserve that as well as flooding issues. And I can tell you firsthand that that's definitely a major factor. And if there is a plan that really needs to be thought out on how to increase the drainage, increase the groundwater storage, as well as, you know, prevent, I mean,
 Flooding is going to happen. Yes, you can have a hundred year flood and there will be tremendous, you know Flooding is inevitable, especially with the terrain effects water runs downhill and if we see that Especially continuing through the Cherry Hills subdivision that we might be Before you know it in Pumpkin Ridge in the floodplain. So thank you so much. Thank you Who else would like to address?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Yes, Matthew. I'm still formulating my thoughts, but I did want to have a couple of simple questions. As a person, does anybody know how many inches of rain we got this past session? We had 13 and still 13. Alright, so that's a pretty big event, but it's not an uncommon event. Certainly not a 100 year event. And so the other question I wanted to ask was for City Engineer about our drainage criteria manual.
 It's a great manual, hasn't been adopted for very long, but I think we get the sense sometimes, and I think, you know, I've certainly been guilty of this too, that we...
 hold it up as an explanation for all flooding concerns and i don't really think that that is true in this case and so i wanted to ask you about an interpretation because i think we've been a little loose with our language we say sometimes that uh well in this letter post development flows will not exceed pre-development flows but um isn't the precise language used in the drainage criteria manual the peak flow when we talk about these uh these more infrequent events of 5 10 25 year events
 Yes, when we talk about the larger events, it is the peak flow, yes. Okay. So it may be the case that a development could increase the volume of water that is being drained from the site, it would just have to release it more slowly so the peak flow is not increased. Correct. Okay. Well, thank you for that. So like I said, I'm still formulating my thoughts, but what that says to me is if we're being
 I guess to boil it down, it may not flood more, but it could flood for longer. Right. I think that's, yeah. Yes, Sarah.
 Well I want to thank all the residents who took their time to come and comment or sent me email. I really appreciate getting your feedback on this and I share your concerns about the flooding in particular. Our drainage criteria manual, it limits runoff to basically you have to control
 or mitigate 80% of total suspended solids. Well, that still leaves room for a 20% increase in total suspended solids that can go into the West Fork of the White River, and that is an impaired waterway. So we have to take that very seriously.
 Additionally, I think that it's a good point about the 2030 city plan. I don't believe that this development is consistent with the goals of our 2030 city plan. And the planning commission and the staff concur with that finding, and I see no compelling reason to overturn their recommendations. And while we definitely do need more housing in this community, a wooded hillside on the periphery of town is not an appropriate place to put that housing.
 You know, we've heard a lot about transportation concerns. And recently, this body passed our new active transportation plan. And we actually have a goal of putting 97% of our population within half a mile of our trail system.
 And when we approve these developments out on these hillsides on the perimeter, it makes it really difficult to start achieving these long-term goals, such as putting these trails next to everyone. And I also have concerns about how we're going to continue to serve these areas. The developer will pay for the sidewalks and the roads to be built, but we're going to have to—
 as taxpayers maintain that infrastructure over the long haul, as well as provide waste and recycling services, police and fire protection. And when you compare that to the relatively small amount of property tax base we're creating, I don't believe that this is a good value for our taxpayers. Okay.
 Additionally, I have concerns in terms of ingress and egress. If you look at where the parcel is located, there really is only one point of access. As a former resident of Rogers Drive, which collapsed, I believe that was last year, that created a very harrowing situation.
 Harry situation for residents up there when the only road in and out starts to collapse and we had to initiate a very quick and expensive repair. Because you know, a large fire truck could have caused further collapse. So I think it's a real safety issue. And it's not prudent to be building developments without at least two means of ingress and egress.
 And then additionally, the bridge, the stone bridge. You know, we talk a lot about wanting to preserve our historic and heritage resources, and this is one of them. I actually learned through one of our local historians, Jerry Hogan, informed me that this bridge actually has significance with Fayetteville history in that Lynn McPherson, Fayetteville's first African American police officer,
 with he was murdered back in 1928 in his killer actually hit out under this bridge to evade capture so you know it's not just the historic stone structure but also that the connection to our local history. So there's really no way that I can support the rezoning of this land. I just don't see any compelling reason to overturn the recommendations of our planning commission and staff. Well do want to counsel keep in mind we're on the second reading.
 So, okay. John. Mayor, I have a question for Mr. Pate, our planning director. Jeremy, where in relation to the floodplain and where in relation to the White River is this neighborhood located?
 This area is not the area in question that most of the neighbors spoke from. It's not within the floodplain or floodway of White River. The majority of Dead Horse Mountain Road, approximately 1800 feet of that road where the bridge sits is within the floodway. Normally we try to span a floodway with a bridge. That would be practically impossible for this particular application.
 Because it's it's a large. It's a large river and it's being it's almost the end of its if it's worth its confluence With another fork of the White River and so that's that's the critical part of this This is almost to the river and so a lot of that drainage is heading toward it It's not within the floodplain. However, so it's not you don't have to get floodplain insurance It's not within the floodway or anything of that nature Okay, but I mean we have to recognize that gravity is a natural phenomenon water is going to run downhill We understand that
 And we don't have the development that we're complaining about right now. And you already have a flooding problem. So there are issues now that need to be addressed by our city engineer, by our city staff, to try to relieve you people who live in that neighborhood of this flooding problem that you obviously have. I saw the pictures via email, saw them pass around here. I'm concerned with an economic problem. I'm concerned with our way of life here in this country. I want to protect private property rights.
 I don't want to tell you what you have to do with your land. I don't want to tell the developer what he has to do with his. That's not just laissez faire, carte blanche authority, go build whatever you want. I'm not in favor of that either. But we have to respect each other as citizens. There is a way that you can keep, it's ironclad, there's a way that you can keep Dead Horse Mountain undeveloped. Pretty picturesque, green, deers, cows, horses, whatever you have.
 And that's if you buy it yourself. And then you can invest your money and keep it just natural. And you can do it as you please. But I find it offensive that we're going to tell some other property owner that we can tell you your investment is worth nothing now because you can't develop it. And that's a bad precedent for our city. That puts notice to every businessman or woman in the country, don't go invest in Fayetteville, Arkansas because the city may just make it worthless.
 That's a very bad precedent we want to set. We want investment in Fayetteville. We want jobs. We want development, reasonable development. We can argue about should we develop here, should we develop there. If we follow our number one principle up here to a T, there'll be not another house built in Fayetteville because that's not natural. We have to balance these principles with the reality of we need housing.
 One of the speakers complained about the developers just want to make a profit. Well, I want to make a profit. Do you want to make a profit? Do you work for free? I mean, I suppose the developer that built your own house has made a profit. We can't overlook those things. There's nothing wrong with making a profit, so long as you do it morally and legally. So I don't want developers to get a bad name. Remember, all of our houses were built by some developer at some time. So let's not lose sight of those facts.
 I appreciate you all speaking. Who was it? He said he wasn't a good public speaker. I thought he was an excellent public speaker. He did an excellent job. So thank you for participating in your governmental processes, and we'll certainly take you into consideration. Ella and then Mark. Well, I have to say that this is the one thing that I don't like about this job, and that is you can't please all the people all the time.
 And that is exactly the situation that I'm in tonight. This is, you know, I certainly appreciate every single person who's come and spoke. And I have lots of friends in Stonebridge Meadows. I've been there a lot. It is a beautiful area. And I have confidence in these developers that they're gonna keep it a beautiful area. But, you know, 10 years ago,
 This body gave unanimous support for them to build two houses on one acre, right? Two to one. Isn't that right? That's all they want to do now. It was a different number and they did have a different road, but these developers, these young men, struggled during the recession, paying the interest so that that beautiful hill didn't go back to the bank,
 but they continued to have it to do something with. And then for us to change the rules in the middle of the game and say, oh, it was good for you to build out there under the 2025 plan, but now we have the 2030 plan and you're not supposed to build out there. Folks, that only exacerbates the reputation.
 that we have had in the city of Fayetteville about being hard to do business with. And I know that this mayor and this administration has worked very hard to overcome that stigma. But making a decision to not let these developers develop this land is not going to help that reputation.
 I agree with Alderman LaTour. We need to be looking at what we can do to help that flooding. And I would like for our city engineer to come up and just tell us, is there anything we can do? Or is it only because it's a certain number of times during, you know, Jeremy, help me understand. Is the flooding not terribly bad?
 I mean, what do you think? Is it something the city, it seems to me that the pictures I've seen, that it's quite bad. And we ought to be trying to do something about it right now. You want to try to answer that, Chris? I've seen the pictures also, and obviously there was a problem there. I know recently the Transportation Division has been out to clean out the channel.
 And it's a natural channel that kind of comes from the southeast of the site That comes into the pipe system that was put in as part of the Stonebridge Meadows development. So We haven't done a full analysis of that and that is something we'll be looking at to check that pipe sizing But I think part of it was just we got a lot of rain. It was it was an unusually large event and
 not necessarily an extreme event, but a large event. And I think we did have some, maybe some blockage in that drainage way. So we're going to be looking at it and see if we can open that up a little bit. South of the, and south and east of the existing subdivision is actually private property and is out in the county. So we don't have a lot of opportunities to go out there and do much on that property without the property owner's permission.
 We're looking at it. Thank you. Thank you. You know, probably I've had more complaints about drainage in this city than anything else during all the time I've been on the council. And you know, part of it I say we love living in the hills and the mountains and the topography, like we've said, water goes downhill and that's part of the problem.
 But I do know that our engineers are constantly looking at that in a lot of different areas, trying to figure out how we can control that. And I know that these developers will keep that on as a major focus as they develop this
 I think that we have to keep in mind that these gentlemen have owned this property for 10 years. And it's perfectly obvious to me why they didn't develop it sooner. We went through a terrible recession. And, you know, there wasn't any money. There wasn't any money to build and there wasn't any money to buy, probably. But they did manage to hold on to that beautiful mountain.
 So I feel that the city of Fayetteville is doing a grave disservice to these individuals. If we say, sorry, we've changed the rules now, you can't build there. I don't want to be a part of that kind of situation. Thank you. Mark. Well, in direct response to that, we do have the 2030 plan in place, and that is a plan, it's a vision. It's just something that directs
 our vision as we move forward. And within this plan, there is an opportunity to develop this property. It doesn't say you can't develop the property. It says develop the property and keep the 2030 vision, the future land use plan vision alive.
 As mentioned by the staff, it would be completely compatible with the 2030 land use plan to do a cluster development or a conservation development. And if you look at housing trends across the United States, these are very popular types of development. It doesn't preclude the development just because we have a certain zoning. It's simply saying please meet the vision
 that we have in front of us. I also want to particularly point out the problem with the West Fork of the White River. We cannot minimize the problems that we have in that watershed as an impaired waterway. As far back as 2005, and there's a report on this for the Watershed Restoration Action Strategy that
 I refer to often whenever we're looking at what we're doing in stormwater management here across that area in the city. This impaired waterway, if you look at the data that's collected, and I was trying to figure out, first of all, the field work was done by the ADEQ and by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission. They pointed out that the critical area of the West Fork of the White River that's being
 around Fayetteville and so looking at that when Fayetteville goes in front of the ADEQ with concerns and we're trying to prevent further impairment of the Beaver Lake we have to show that we're honestly and earnestly managing the sediment
 the turbulence, the velocity, and the management of the drain, the stormwater that is draining into the West Fork of the White River. It's a constant struggle. I wish that Tim was here tonight to maybe explain more about this and we can maybe get him back on here. But we have to seriously think about this because in the future we don't want the citizens of our community to be, community to be,
 placed in a position where we're going to have to clean up a mess that can be prevented. It's already a mess. If you look at the 205, I mean the 2005 information that was presented to us that we're using as a guiding document, there is a way to manage it and I think that we are working on that in the minimum standards that we have with our
 code in place, but that is a minimum document. It's not the perfect document. It is not the holy grail of managing stormwater runoff in specific watersheds, and this is a specific watershed where we have an impaired system. What I would like to say is we're not...
 As I look at this, we're not trying to prevent development. We're trying to encourage the right type of development. And there is the opportunity, even with the zoning that is here, to develop that correctly.
 So that's what I'm struggling with because I do believe that we have to have development. And I do believe that development is important as our city grows, but I also know that we have the 2030 land use plan that is in place and that is the vision that is in front of us right now. The other thing of course is maintenance of the infrastructure in the long run.
 Last time we heard this is going to be as beautiful as Mount Sequoia. Someone tonight mentioned that this is being developed piecemeal. Well, that's how Mount Sequoia was developed. And everyone knows the problems we have with managing the runoff of Mount Sequoia. A lot of problems, infrastructure problems that are hard to manage and go back and fix.
 So, using Mount Sequoia as an example of a piece mill type development will only show the problems that we have in managing this type of watershed management and the runoff from the development. So staying within the current zone and developing it within these guidelines can help us with future development because...
 It's going to help us manage future infrastructure management and the cost associated with that. So I've got to, I have to think about that also in the long run. This is a beautiful piece of property. It's going to be developed beautifully, and we know that. There are opportunities within the current zoning to develop it that way. We're not preventing development.
 So that's a few of the things that are crossing my mind. I'm not sure exactly how we're going to work this out. We still have another two weeks. I'm gathering a lot of information, but that's in the forefront of my mind as I'm going through trying to see what we don't want anyone to think that they can't develop the property that they own. I'm not here to try to do that.
 But I do think that it is our responsibility to encourage the appropriate development as we move forward. Okay. Alan? Thank you. I just had a couple questions, and I'm still trying to formulate how I'll vote myself. But I know the developers have said that if there's over 30 homes built that they will add a second entrance. But Jeremy, maybe you can speak to it, or maybe it's the fire chief who should speak to it.
 Is there not a requirement when they hit that 31st home would there not be a requirement for the second ingress regress. If you have a question or a question. I have an answer. Yes, when you get over 30 in a development you've got to have 2 ways in 2 ways out. So that's the that's the line. Thank you and just wanted to get that on the record actually
 And then I've had a lot of questions about the drainage and we've talked about it a lot tonight. Chris, I know you and I talked a little bit about this over email and Jeremy you sent me some great information today, but for all the people that are here that came to spoke, can you talk a little bit about specifically the drainage review process in general and then also the drainage review process in the Hilltop overlay area? Chris, you want to? Either one, I'm not sure.
 Yes, for a typical development, our drainage criteria manual governs the design of that drainage system. And there really are four minimum standards. The last two are kind of similar, but the first one is a water quality standard. The 80% removal, either through LID methods or through physical filtration is the first minimum standard.
 The second one is for the one-year storm, so for smaller events. We have what's called extended detention. You have to hold that water back for a longer period of time and release it slowly over a period of about 40 hours. What that does is it protects downstream channels from more frequent events. It allows the channels to kind of heal up in between and not have that big flush.
 As we get into the larger events the two-year storm up through the hundred year storm It's basically the way it was with our old manual where you you have to mitigate the peak flow So the peak flow of the water can't be increased. You have to keep it the same or less than the current peak flow and so that's really basically it and I said I said for minimum standards that the last I
 The third and fourth one are kind of both the same. They're split up into different sized storms. But essentially that's it. So the developer has to present the existing drainage conditions, do an analysis of what the existing
 storm drain with the with the existing area of flow that comes to a particular site they have to look at downstream conditions also but they develop the existing condition and then they design their storm drain system their detention ponds or whatever systems they come up with to make sure that those four minimum standards are met okay so what about with the single family development in the hilltop overlay district
 I know you talk about as you as you go into the building of the houses. Yeah, that Jeremy might speak about that part of it. So the
 Sort of two phases of development with a subdivision or a neighborhood one is the infrastructure goes in so that's the water lines the sewer lines The streets storm drains the tension ponds That's all reviewed under the process that Chris just described And the city essentially accepts that infrastructure as the cities to then maintain in the future Where it's in the right-of-way or public easements the second phase of construction obviously are the homes that are then constructed This property the majority of it is within our hillside hilltop overlay district So there's some
 Requirements that are above and beyond your standard subdivisions And one of those is to require a grading and drainage review for each individual home as well as a tree preservation Plan to be submitted for each home. That's not typical for most subdivisions within Fayetteville and then the third requirement that is above and beyond in terms of construction is that all homes must have a engineer stamped and designed footage
 putting a foundation essentially for for each home within the hillside of the district. Thank you I appreciate that. I just think it's important to the discussion and for everyone to know when they're giving their input or giving us feedback about those additional requirements especially. Yes. Well I have, I was gonna get final comments because I kind of thought that's what I was hearing was final comments and then I realized that we're on the second reading and it sounds like there for a while we were ready to
 vote on this but then I heard. Or McKinnon and all along mentioned waiting another 2 weeks I don't really want to give any comments until we go through the 3 readings but I also don't know that we need to wait another 2 weeks and have essentially the same exact 2 hours. Of conversation so I don't know if procedurally I should
 move to go to the 3rd reading and then get voted down if necessary, but I also I respect the council enough that I'm more Than happy to wait if that's the wishes of the council But I was just going to move to the third and final reading because it sounded like I was hearing final comments Which usually happens after the third and final readings Well, I mean I'll move we go to the third and final reading and
 So that I can make final comments if it gets voted down that perfectly fine. And in 2 weeks we'll have this same conversation again. But nothing against any of the speakers tonight. But I don't know that we need to actually go through it to make any changes in our in our decisions, but I'll let us vote and I'm happy with the vote if we want to win of 2 weeks. OK so which police color up some. Yes, no.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Now that passes. All right. In ordinance rezoning that property is cried a rezoning petition RZN 15-5004 for approximately 17.37 acres located south of Pumpkin Ridge Road from residential agricultural to residential single-family two units per
 Okay. Now I'll give my final comment. Yeah. You saw that coming, didn't you? Mm-hmm. Well, first of all, I so much appreciate and respect the opinions of the people at this table and the people that have spoke on both sides of this. This is a different situation for, I think, a lot of us because some of us that are considered
 I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a
 the reality is that they all said something that I picked up on one was all the military said that this is a balance and and and you do have to have a balance and I totally agree with that and in my head I'm balancing between the reasons to do something and against something and I start with the and I'll get this just on the public record I know the answer I will ask Jeremy did the planning commission vote for this or against this
 They voted against this. Thank you. And city staff has recommended for this or against this? We recommended against the rezoning. Okay. So I have to start with that. I think that's a responsibility I have, which is to overturn something, I must have...
 quite a several reasons to overturn something because I have to have Trust in something alderman gray said she has confidence. She mentioned the word confidence well, I have a lot of confidence in the Planning Commission and in the city staff and So for me to overturn something is very very difficult and what I'm struggling with right now is are there enough reasons to overturn it? There are certainly some reasons to vote for it. I I I
 I don't mind that this development is going to happen as it's going to happen because it will happen at some point. That is a beautiful spot. People are going to want to live there. Part of the Fayetteville curse that's a good curse to have is that almost everybody in the country wants to live here. That's why we're on all the top lists in the country. So we're going to have these sort of problems. They're actually good problems to have, but not if you live there.
 Not if you're one of those people that are going to have to deal with some, what I think to be pretty serious traffic issues, especially in the construction phase of this particular development. And what I was hoping, and I realize we're supposed to vote on the rezoning, but of course the details came through of the development. So that has to be part of the decision-making process. And there does need to be a road to Dead Horse Mountain.
 There just does and if not a if not an actual paved road that everybody uses forever build a construction road because when I when I drive those roads, which I did several times over the last few weeks as as Soon as yesterday. I thought Construction trucks driving up here back and forth for two years dumping all the little things out of those trucks that they do is going to be a real problem for two years and
 where if they could go in and out of a private street that was only theirs, it wouldn't even have to be a street, just a construction road of some sort. Those happen. And I don't think that those cost nearly as much to a developer. And the decision has to be made, is that worth it? Now, if I was the developer, I think I would go back, I would win or lose this today and go back and say, what can I do to expand this? Because if they expand it, they have to build another road. And so to me, this is one of those, there's,
 there's four and a half reasons for it and five and a half reasons against it. It's difficult for me to tell a developer you can't do something because Alderman Gray is absolutely right and Alderman Latour, when they agreed with each other, are both absolutely right. It's tough to say you can't do something. You own it. You can't do that. But Alderman Kenyon made a really good point. This is not nobody saying they can't develop this at all.
 Most of the residents I talked to, probably 90%, said this is going to get developed. We just want it developed in a certain way. And unfortunately, it won't be with this limited project. So in a strange way, they have to get a bigger project to make sense to me, but a bigger project fixes the access problems.
 And without a construction road without a road being built I don't think this is a good thing for the for the community right now so as as much as it it's difficult to do. I would I would vote against this right now well, I'm not going to overturn city staff and the planning Commission in this particular case. And you have the final comments. Yes, John. As much as I dislike disagreeing with Alderman tenant.
 I have to defer to the landowners. I think they have a whole lot more than $850,000 invested in this project. That was just the cost of bringing the water and the sewer there. They bought the land too. That's a huge investment. I mean, just the carrying cost, just the interest on that. I'm not sure they'll ever get to a bigger project to build the road that we all want until they get this project built.
 I mean, they've got to start generating some cash flow. I'm a CPA. You've got to have cash flow, folks, or it's not going anywhere. Okay? And I'm all for developing in a smart way. We have hillside restrictions. This is mostly on the hillside, as the Director of Planning has pointed out. There'll be extra, extraordinary requirements on this construction, which should keep us going in the right direction with our development.
 So I would implore that term was used earlier tonight this Council please don't let these landowners hanging leave them hanging. We need to give them some way of generating cash flow to continue with this project if they can't build this first phase they may never get to the bigger phase. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. One does a couple things make. Number one, you know said earlier that.
 and we're making this land worthless if we rezone it, but that's not actually true. As Alderman Kenyon pointed out, it can still be developed, it just can't be developed according to the original intentions. And maybe that's not worth enough to the current developers, but maybe it'll be worth enough to a future developer. Then to the point earlier that we shouldn't, we might be renegotiating on a deal the previous council did, I disagree with that.
 The decision that was made in the past, the unanimous decision that's been cited over and over again was to give this a zoning that had a sunset. And everybody knew that. They knew when the expiration date was. The council knew it, and the developers knew it, anybody who observed it knew it. That was the agreement. And it expired, you know, so that agreement's no longer in effect. You know, I don't think that it's our job or our obligation to bail out developers.
 That's what we're talking about. That seems to be the main thrust of the argument for this, is there's been a lot of money invested in it and we need to bail them out. Any developer understands there's lending risk and there's regulatory risk and they're trying to get those risks down to an acceptable level of risk. Sometimes it doesn't pay out. It's not our job to fix it.
 You know all that is kind of inside baseball corn, you know, I think anybody's been watching this understands that it's cared cares about the details But for me, it's it's a lot easier than that. It's the wrong place to build more stuff cost us too much You can't maintain it don't collect enough tax revenue to maintain it. It's just the wrong place to build more We're supposed to get somewhere We're supposed to build somewhere around 20,000 new housing units in this city over the next 20 years We keep growing the same rate that we're growing and it's the wrong place to put a
 and we're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point. We're going to have to get to that point.
 But that was before the 2030 plan. Also, that rezoning came and it went. It just did. There was a sunset, I agree with Matthew's point. There was a sunset on that development that expired. Concern of mine is there's no connection to Dead Horse Mountain. I think there needs to be one. I have a concern about that. Got one way in, one way out. I think the location of the property is at the fringe of the city. It's gonna require more infrastructure, more maintenance,
 It's going to be costly in the long run. Staff was against it. Planning Commission was against it. It goes against the 2030 plan. So that's my concerns on this particular reserve. All right. Having said all that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer? No. Latour? Yes. Long? No. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Tenant? No. Okay. All right.
 all right thank you all now we're going to open up a public hearing actually the next item mayor which is for the resolution to authorize condemnation is that the one we're looking at yes yes we have some actually pretty good news on that no don't we Chris yes we're gonna simply ask at this resolution be tabled because it looks like we have pretty much worked out agreements with
 All of the land owners we don't have everything in writing and all signed yet, but we have agreements in principle Is that right Chris? That's correct
 And so we don't think we're going to take this up, but we rather than voting it down or anything I'd rather you just table one meeting if you would and hopefully by then we'll have everything in right. So move that it will most of the second table. Some would present discussion on that. So under which police color. Some are yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay.
 let's go into new business number one an order to resale that property describing rezoning petition rzn 15-5044 for approximately 16.02 acres located at 4065 east huntsville road from rpzd 08-3071 residential plan zoning district bridgedale plaza to rsf 7 residential single family seven units per acre ns neighborhood services and cs community services kit
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from RPCD 083071, Residential Planned Zoning District, Bridgedale Plaza, to residential single-family, seven units per acre, neighborhood services and community services as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof.
 and section two that the city council of the city of favela arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of favela to reflect the zoning change provided in section one jeremy this is a property also located in southeast fayetteville it's a 16 acres located at the south east corner of highway 16 east and river meadows drive
 All five of the current parcels are zoned for a residential plan zoning district. It was a mixed-use zoning district containing commercial apartments above offices and single family development approved in 2008. That facility also expired and did not occur. This particular rezoning request is to rezone the properties essentially in the same function and format that was previously approved, two acres to community services, which is a mixed-use zoning district, and that community services, as noted, let's see what page...
 noted in your exhibit A on page 208, community services would be right at the corner along Huntsville Road and River Meadows Drive. The neighborhood services would be comprised of about two acres.
 Behind that, Neighborhood Services is a zoning district that allows for limited office-type uses, low-intensity non-residential uses and residential uses. And then RSF-7 would be the balance of the property if it's rezoned. It's about 12 acres. RSF-7 is one of our single-family zoning districts that allows up to seven units per acre.
 As mentioned, the property is located along a busy highway corridor. Currently there are quite a bit of improvements occurring along this area with bridge replacements, traffic signals as someone mentioned earlier tonight, with single and multifamily homes. All the properties surrounding this particular site are developed. Standard subdivision lots to the west and south, some larger lots to the east, and multifamily and higher density to the north.
 This proposed zoning would meet our city plan 2030 designation of residential neighborhoods, which promotes a variety of housing as well as non-residential uses, particularly at corner locations. I think that's an important component to look at with this rezoning is that the non-residential uses would be along the connected corridor and also at a corner location.
 The community services and neighborhood zoning districts are form-based zones. Those are intended for buildings to create an abiding pedestrian streetscape with mixed-use buildings and residences close to those areas. It would allow for also goods and services, potentially goods and services to provide those types of uses in which residents could live, work, and play in this area. The Planning Commission voted 6 to 1 in favor of this particular zoning request, and staff is also recommending approval. What questions do we have, Chair May?
 Okay, what public comment do we have now? Let's go over the room usually you start with the applicant. Oh, sorry Yes, indeed. I've got thank you kid. I am Clint McDonald live at 1385 South Roberts Road What questions do we have for the developer, okay, thank you Now let's get back to public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless councilmember brings you back up to ask questions. I
 Please give us your name and address. Address your comments to the chair, which is me. Don't engage council member or the public. Stay on topic. And again, no clapping, laughing, or booing. Okay? Let's all be courteous. Now, who would like to be first? Arden Hanks III, Elias Bud Hanks, 1440 South River Meadows Drive. I'll just touch on a lot of the factors. I went to the planning commission meeting.
 I talked there. I also was here, it's like Groundhog Day. I testified, brought pictures in about flooding, so I'll touch on that first. I've lived out since 2004 at Stonebridge. I've been there for 200 year rains. In fact, one time, Stonebridge, Dead Horse Mountain, because it's in a flood plain, they actually put a boat out there and were fishing on the road.
 It took nine days before the water went down. That's just one aspect. We've already talked about the road system. I got the street commission to agree that Roberts Road is not a sanctioned road. It's actually a country lane, so we really don't have three roads going in and out of Stonebridge.
 The old bridge, it speaks for itself. It really shouldn't have heavy construction equipment running on it. I would have to say that if we don't look at the water table, and I know it sounds like we've flooded each other with information about water tonight, but the development that you have proposed in front of you
 is land that has an extremely high water table. There are ponds all over the place. In fact, during one of the hundred-year rains, Clint, a nice guy, but what I'm worried about is he lives on a piece of property that had a lot of ponds. Still does. His ponds flooded the homes on Roberts Road, the homes on East Point,
 in Bridgeport, I think it is, and the homes in River Meadows on St. Andrews. And I took pictures of all that. Well, Clint didn't pump his ponds. County wouldn't pump them, it's the county land. And so the city went out and for two days spent our taxpayer money pumping his ponds. And I went over and talked to the guys from the city and said,
 Why are you using my tax money to pump this guy's ponds as county property?" And they said, because they were sent out there. So for two days, they pumped county property. If that is developed, and as I'm sure you're all aware, Highway 16 is the front end of what you just voted against in Fallingwater, which is the back end. As the bridge gets developed right now,
 and I made the point when I went to the 2040, in fact I think a reporter even put something I said in the paper. The problem that we have is that the road is four lanes from crossover. They've already guttered it down to two lanes, which doesn't tell me they're going to expand it any time to continue the four lanes before it goes to two and then goes to four and then hits the bridge
 which the bridge is not going to be four, it's going to be two until Elkins gets four lanes. That's what I'm being told. Well, if you try to get out right now at River Meadows, there's absolutely no way without taking your life in your hands. Back when we first talked about this development, the plaza, I called Little Rock and I spoke to some people from the Highway Commission.
 including, I believe, Dick Trammell, who I think worked somewhere around there. And I said, what does it take to put a light in at River Meadows? This was before Stonebridge Light. He said, you can get six people to die at that intersection, I'll put a light in. And I went around and I asked for volunteers. Would you believe I didn't get one person to volunteer to die at that intersection?
 so that we could get a light put in there. I'm not being facetious, I really did. I went around and asked. So, the point is, we already have people walking through our neighborhood. Now, I understand with the plaza, they want to encourage walking, bicycling, etc.
 But if we have people now, and we've just started having misdemeanor problems, people coming in, cutting wires on nightlights, tipping sheds over, stealing moors out of people's open garages, what more are we going to encounter if we have this plaza? Now, I realize in the past, one of the major objections was storage units.
 We still have never gotten total qualification that there will not be any storage units used up in that area. One of the other aspects, not only the ponds on Clint's property, but the front, if you drive down, and most of you probably have, between Stonebridge and Roberts Lane, you will see ponds right next to the highway. To try and fill those in, and I'm not sure whether they're spring-fed,
 is going to be a major accomplishment. I don't see any pragmatical way to bring in enough fill to stem the tide of the ponds to get the land so it won't run down into St. Andrew's Circle houses and or into Roberts Road without building those two pieces of property up.
 And I think I've covered just about every major problem that you're going to encounter if they try to develop that. The last resort would be close River Meadows, because nobody out there really wants to pull out in front of a two- or four-lane bridge, and that's exactly what you're going to be doing. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who would like to address us next on this?
 My name is Bobby Smith and I live at 1159 South St. Andrews Circle. First of all, thank you to the respondents to my email. I sent you a photograph of how the congestion on Highway 16 has directly affected my family and the danger that exists in its current state and before construction even began. I'm going to lead off and close with what I believe is the most important element regarding the proposed rezoning.
 and that element is the safety of the residents of our neighborhood. My objection is based on the fact that if this rezoning is endorsed without concrete solutions to the issues regarding safe travel to and from our neighborhood with an exit and an entrance, then what can be more important? One of my responsibilities, I'm an administrator at the high school, and we filter everything through safety. We filter everything through safety.
 If this rezoning is approved and construction goes forward as the developer suggests, here are my observations. River Meadows is already so dangerous that I don't allow my three driving daughters to enter or exit from this location onto Highway 16. Prior to the light opening at Stonebridge Road, the only way to enter or exit our subdivision, depending on the time of day, was if someone slowed down on Highway 16 and allowed you
 to enter into traffic. Given that we now have bridges that are still in construction after nearly two years, it is impossible to exit our neighborhood safely at any time of the day. My wife actually got out of her van and moved one of the construction signs so she could try to see over the bridge to see if any westbound traffic was coming her way.
 Given that, if that is not a viable exit and entry point for our, then that only means that we can exit one way, and that would be to go back through the neighborhood that you just discussed and exit through the only lot that we have, and that is at Stonebridge.
 Another observation, without a lot either there or another location, there will be no safe location to enter the roadway. I wonder if Highway 16 really fits into what our city plan 2030 frameworks are. Highway 16 is an antiquated, overworked artery into our city that serves much of western Washington County and Madison County, and until adequate infrastructure is in place, I cannot imagine why we would consider adding one more car to this road.
 If you look, the recommendation from the Planning Commission is to add approximately 57 to 60 new houses and a commercial zone that includes multi-family units to an area that is so congested that getting out in the morning is nearly impossible and always dangerous. In the Planning Committee notes, all seem to acknowledge that traffic is an issue, but they stop short of using the word dangerous, and I don't stop short at using the word dangerous. Thank you.
 They even suggested a lot at River Meadows or new streets or improvements would help facilitate this additional traffic issue that they acknowledge. If this plan goes forward, we are completely dependent on the city council to ensure that these improvements will be made. I see no concrete evidence that any plan has been suggested. As far as biking and walking, if I were a council member, knowing what I know, I would strongly caution anyone that chose to put a bike or walk on Highway 16 at this time.
 It is unsafe in a car. And until that infrastructure is built, I cannot imagine that that being a driving force and whether we determine whether this should, if this is something that is really going to be productive for our neighborhood. Here's some questions that I feel must be answered before we can go forward. What is the city's plan for access to Highway 16 from our neighborhood? Under the current plan that I got off the website,
 It simply shows River Meadows and two exits from the proposed property development that they are. How are those cars going to get out onto the road? How will we get out of our neighborhood? Will the state even allow a lot at River Meadows, which was just a piece that was discussed through the Planning Commission at the junction of River Meadows and Highway 16? Do we know? How will it be funded? Is there even a plan that's been suggested? No.
 Will all four lanes of the bridge be open prior to all four lane construction being completed? How will that help us without a lot or some alternate plan for access to this already dangerous road? Are we really considering this very population and traffic-dense rezoning without having a full understanding of its implication on the safe access from my neighbors to a highway that takes us to work? I'll finish by saying that I appreciate your work, and I would also like to follow up on something regarding—
 When you buy a property that is zoned one way with the hope that it is rezoned, then you enter into the world of risk. And while I support everyone's opportunity to buy and sell at profit, I have struggled and failed, and I've had some successes with those risks, but risk is part of it.
 Just because you create, because you make a purchase and you have risk, there is no guarantee that it's gonna be profitable. We saw when the housing market fell that there were a lot of people that risked a lot and lost a lot. We also saw millionaires made. I would hope that that would not be a factor when we look at what we're doing with our property. I'll finish by saying I appreciate your work. If you believe at all that this could lead to additional traffic congestion and road safety issues, I believe you kind of have your answer.
 that until we have a viable tested solution, that we need to be very cautious about what we rezone this property. We at Stonebridge deserve concrete answers to these questions, and we certainly deserve safe access to and from our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this? Yeah, Mayor. Good to see you. Tom Stevens, 3803 River Bluff Cove. I looked at the design of this proposed development.
 And as our previous guest spoke, there is an exit from this development right onto River Meadow. And as he spoke, there isn't a traffic light to get out onto Huntsville Road. If this development goes forward, I can almost guarantee you every resident living in that development will take one look at that exit onto Highway 16 and say, no way. Just like I've told my son, do not go out that exit. I don't go out that exit.
 they're going to turn left into Stonebridge Meadows, and all that traffic's going to flow through our neighborhood again. As far as what's planned to go there, office spaces with apartments above it. Right here on West Old Farmington Road. West Old Farmington Road and Shiloh Drive, there are office spaces with apartments above it. Almost every one of those office spaces is vacant right now. On Joyce Boulevard, there's plenty of office spaces vacant.
 i don't think we need any more of that apartment complexes we got apartment complexes going up all over this city i don't think we need any more apartment complex again my my main concern is just getting onto and off of huntsville road now i'm not going to make you promise there's going to be a light there i'm just going to assume there's not going to be one and all that traffic is going to go through our neighborhood to get to the safe place to exit thank you thank you all right who else would like to address this
 Good evening. My name is Glenda Patterson. I live at 1106 St. Andrews Circle in the Stonebridge Meadows subdivision. I've lived there for approximately 11 years. So I moved there in the beginning and I was here when there was an attempt years ago to put in apartments and the storage facility, which I did not think was a
 a good idea at that time. I still don't think it's a good idea. I think the density of these single-family homes is too great for the area. You're talking seven single-family homes on
 An acre, that's a total of 12 acres, that's 84 new homes. That's 84 new homes and 84 new cars. If the families are like most families these days, they have two cars. So you're talking 160 cars in an area where we already have problems trying to get out in the morning. I have to time my exit at 6.30 in the morning so that I can get out in less than five minutes.
 I've seen a bus stopped on the corner because no cars would let them in as they come out from Elkins. So getting out of the subdivision is a problem. Roberts Lane, Roberts Road, however you want to call it, it is not...
 wide enough to accommodate two cars going in opposite directions. There are ditches on the side, so it's easy to, if you're trying to allow a car coming towards you to pass, that you could easily drive into the ditch because there is no shoulder. When the bridge is fully repaired and is now four lanes, it would be nearly impossible to get out of the subdivision or...
 The average speed of a car coming down each side on Huntsville Road on Highway 16 is about 50 miles an hour. It's probably faster than that, okay, because cars seem to slow down behind me as I come out. So it is a problem adding 160 cars or even 80 cars to that spot does not make much sense.
 There is also, looking at the plans, no obvious way or easy way for those residents there to get out in the morning, in the afternoon, or any time of day because now you have two lanes of traffic and the easiest way is to go right and not to go left. That means you have to go probably down to Baldwin to turn around.
 because there are no lights there. So it's not just that we don't want change, it's that we see that what has happened to us will only be compounded by putting this development there. Also, community services or neighborhood services, we have within a mile, we have a
 uh... rest bonds we had child care we have health facility we had banking services that that's within the mile putting it to test of the mouth from our houses is not going to be and had a benefit okay it just doesn't make much sense within five miles we have the major interest action of mission and crossover where you have everything you need you have
 You have two neighborhood markets, you have Harf's and Walmart, you have restaurants, you have three banks, you have tire services. You have everything you need right there within five miles. I don't see how adding a Subway or a McDonald's, when you have one within five miles, you have hard...
 You have McDonald's, you have Taco Bell, you have a host of things already that help in our neighborhood and allow us to shop closer to home than coming into downtown Fayetteville.
 So my request is that you do not rezone. I think early on when the subdivision was smaller, when it was under development, it may have been a good idea. But now it's an established residential community. It just does not make a whole lot of sense. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? I'll be very brief. My name is Jay Ray. I live at Cherry Hill Drive.
 Stonebridge Meadows, and I've been there since 2005, and it is impossible to get out on River Meadows, through River Meadows exit.
 I do have a motorhome. I can only bring it in one way, and that's down Roberts. I'll tear the whole roof off because the trees are so low. I can't make the turn off of Stonebridge. I can't get through Roberts. You can't even get a truck through. I'm sorry, I can't get through River Meadows because it has a rock in the middle that says, Welcome to Stonebridge. So I can't get through there. I have to count down Roberts.
 When I get down Roberts, if there's a car coming, they got to back all the way back up. Because I'm too big. I can't get off on the side of the road. So I bring it home very rarely. But the traffic is really, really bad out there. If you don't get out at 630, you're not going to get out. And even with the light, the traffic is so far back.
 And when the green light happens, everybody's still blocking the light. At 7 o'clock in the morning, the light turns green. There's somebody in front of you because the traffic hasn't changed up on 265. And you sit there and wait. And when you get your chance, it turns caution again. And now you're going to have these trucks coming in, and they're going to find out it's easier coming in through Stonebridge to get into this community than trying to get out on a four-lane road. You need a light if it's going to happen to happen. But that's bad traffic. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello, I'm Cindy Hideskins. I live at 1128 St. Andrews Circle, and our backyard backs up to the McDonald property. And one concern is that our land, our backyard, sits two feet lower than his land. We do have a row of trees, and we don't necessarily have flooding now, but if he feels...
 five or six houses right behind our property i forget how many four four or five behind our lot with concrete i do expect the water should drain forward into their street not back into our backyard and listening to the earlier stonebridge residents and the comments i hope that would be addressed later
 As part of the development that you know officials would look at their drainage plans. I see that he has a pond Planned, but that doesn't mean water will drain over to that pond if it's not built correctly My other concern is what the other folks have addressed is that I live very close to highway 16 and that's the way I go in and out and
 I don't know whether the state plans to put a light there, whether they ever will, but I really can't envision a stoplight at the end of a bridge. I don't know. Maybe they will, but it doesn't seem right that we go ahead with all this additional traffic on this road and thinking maybe in a few years they'll put a light there when we don't know. Okay.
 then the commercial building that goes in on the front of Highway 16 does have an exit onto River Meadows, which is a narrow entrance. People have addressed how hard it is to get in and out there. We're going to have shoppers coming into that commercial district and leaving that commercial district there.
 joining in with us trying to get out there. So it's going to be kind of a log jam there. So I appreciate your considering all these things. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Larry Altman, 2059 South Cherry Hills Drive. This sounds like, I haven't had a whole lot of time to study this one, but it sounds like a perfect storm. One is the huge safety concerns. And as the previous speaker just mentioned,
 Not only is it a problem for people who live in the community, but the people who are going to be shopping at this proposed development are going to be, I presume, making a left-hand turn onto Highway 16, trying to get out of there. Again, it sounds like they could be taking their life in their own hands. I am very familiar with this area.
 My wife and I decided to walk the ground the other day and walked over there to see just exactly where it was going to be. It seems that there is only, again, one entrance into that property, if I'm not mistaken. You would come in River Meadows and go down St. Andrews and make a left. And I'm not remembering the name of that street there where you'd make a left. But then you would turn left onto Pinnacle and...
 That's the only entrance that I can tell that there's going to be. Again, this is going to, well, let me just mention the number of houses on those 12 acres seems like an inordinate amount of homes to put on a small piece of property. And then also, by the same token, you're endangering those people's lives because you're going to be asking them or...
 you're going to put them in a situation where they're going to try to get out and make a left-hand turn onto Highway 16, which is not safe. Also, I think that this affects Stonebridge Meadows again, because if I lived there, I would make a right-hand turn, I would get on Gough Farm Road and go across that old Stonebridge and go down to the light, because that's the only safe way
 to get out of there. And even making a right hand turn off of Highway 16 is dangerous. I was making a left hand turn there one day onto River Meadows and there was a little Mercedes Benz SLK right behind me and I could see it coming but the young man behind her didn't see me stop and didn't see her stop because she was behind me and
 i saw all this coming i was able to speed up a little bit to try to avoid the impact but she was hit in the back rear ended there trying to make a left-hand turn it's extremely dangerous this seems like a bad idea but there has got to be some kind of provisions made for making this if you go forward with it for making it safer for the people that you are asking to live there thank you thank you who else would like to address us on this
 Hello, my name is Greg Zach again. I'm on Oakmont Drive in Stonebridge. We've heard testimony to considerable difficulties with traffic and perhaps environment the water table too. If those can be solved without knowing more, I have no great objection to a development being there, but it strikes me that offering community services, whatever those mean, or convenience services, convenience stores perhaps,
 is not something that accords with the kind of quality of life, the semi-rural quality that we're looking for in a place like Stonebridge or thereabouts. It's possible, I think, for a developer to come in and offer services that would be something different, that could make a difference. We don't have any grocery store very near there. There used to be evidently at the foot of 265. If the right kind of business were offered there, something imaginatively conceived that offered a real need,
 That might work, not only for Stonebridge but other people. But, again, this comes after those traffic and water problems, I think. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. Okay, what's the council thinking on this? Matthew. Well, I'd prefer to hold this on the first reading if the rest of the council is amenable. Yeah, I'd like to. Yeah, I agree. What would you all like to do? I'd like to hold it.
 No, I'd just say I'd like to hold it. I agree with Matthew. I would too. I'd like to install a red light without killing six people. Well, now, is that... Thanks, John. Me too. On the left, that's State Road, right? It is.
 State Highway is going to have to approve. With any State Highway, obviously we have to get a permit and permission from the State Highway and Transportation Department, which generally requires a warrant. It has to meet certain warrants to be able to establish a traffic signal there.
 We talked about this for many years, related to the light that has now been installed at the location in Stonebridge further west, Dead Horse Mountain Road in that area, that we've been discussing tonight. So that's certainly something that we can look at. I do not believe that the plan is, with the highway department's improvements, to install a traffic signal. Essentially what they're doing with the bridges is replacing two bridges they designated that need to be replaced.
 planning for future expansion of the roadway in the meantime by installing for the potential for four lane bridges yes there certainly are going to be gaps between the bridges where it's not four lane the intent was simply to be able to plan for the future and build that bridge once for future development but there is not funding to my knowledge for future phases of highway 16 east in this location funding issue okay we'll look at that
 Sounds dangerous. It does. Okay, so y'all want to hold it right here. All right, let's move on to the next one. Okay. Number two, in order to approve Vacation 15-5037, submitted by Blue and Associates, properly located at Harbor Isle and Zion Road, the vacate portions of an existing utility easements. Kemp.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates and abandons the following utility easements described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part thereof. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached and labeled Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Recorder of the County and recorded in the deed records of the county. Thank you.
 Section 3 that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions of approval number one any damage or relocation of existing Facilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner developers expense and number two existing utilities located within the easements shall be abandoned and relocated as required by the utility providers at the owner developers expense a
 This is a development located on the south side of Zion Road in northeast Fayetteville, in the Woodbury neighborhood. It's across Zion Road from Lakewood Village and Fayetteville Athletic Club.
 this project was approved back in 2006 and rezoned into neighborhood conservation in 2011 portion of the property has been developed and there are plans to develop the remainder with 38 single-family lots on the on the property the applicants requesting vacation of multiple easements that were associated with the formerly approved project and that served that the Woodbury PZD but they now conflict with the approved
 approved development that the planning commission recently gave approval to the planning commission reviewed this with all utility providers providing comments and voted seven to zero in favor and staff is also recommending in support of vacation questions we have for jeremy on this okay any public comment
 Okay, bring it back to the council motion to spend the rules and go to the second reading second No, motion is saying to go to the second reading Sondra. Would you please call the road? Yes, yes, right. Yes. Yes. Yes Yes in order to approve a VHC 15-50 37 submitted by blue and associates I
 For property located at Harbor Isle and Zion Road to vacate portions of the existing utility easements.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Wong. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5037 submitted by Balloon Associates for property located at Harbor Isle and Zion Road to vacate portions of existing utility easements. Okay. We got any final comments from the council on this?
 Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Shop mode. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Kay. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay. Number three, in ordinance to amend Exhibit A, Donor Recognition Signs, and Exhibit B, Naming Park Facilities, which are attached in a part of 97.088B2B and...
 97.088D of the Federal Code. Kit. Whereas in 2010, the Fayetteville City Council amended Section 97.088 signs prohibited to
 Subsection B2 recognition signs to designate the allowed sign size for donor recognition signs in city parks as detailed in exhibit A to this code subsection. And whereas at the same time the Fayetteville City Council adopted section 97.088 subsection D facility naming
 with Exhibit B naming park facility operations policy, and whereas the Fayetteville Parks and Recreation Department has suggested changes to these policies and have received endorsement by the Fayetteville Parks and Recreation Advisory Board of its proposed changes.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council for the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Section 97.088 of the Fayetteville Code by removing and deleting in their entirety the current Exhibit A, Operations Policy for Donor Recognition, and Exhibit B, Naming Park Facilities Operation Policy, and enacting as their replacements the attacks on Exhibit A, Donor Recognition Signs, and Exhibit B, Naming Park Facilities.
 Good evening. Connie Edmundson, Park and Recreation Director. As our city continues to grow, we know that the need for recreation opportunities also increases.
 So this is especially true when we look in regards to the regional park, and we're trying to complete that park as soon as we can. Developing partnerships with businesses and individuals will help us to build these facilities much sooner, as well as reduce the city's investment in capital projects.
 The need to recognize the donors is vital to the success of soliciting and securing funds. In 2014, the Friends for Parks was formed, and they're a group of citizens that are interested in raising funds for park and recreation facility capital projects, in particular right now the regional park.
 This group was formed as an umbrella of the Northwest Arkansas Community Foundation as a 501c3 organization. Now they have already raised $5,000 that was donated to them by Ozark Electric Cooperative to help with promotional materials and to put together a donor package.
 In 2010, we amended Chapter 97 so that Parks and Trails properties could have, that allowed us to have donor recognition signs on them. And now we're looking at it, and we'd like to have a few more revisions in it so that we can continue this. And this will help us to better solicit and to get more donations.
 We're also asking for an amendment to the naming park facilities policy in ordinance 5535 that omits that we must table the proposed park facility name at parks board.
 Now that we go to City Council, it would have three opportunities for public input. So we would just like it to go to the Parks Board, have a recommendation, then come to City Council. So those are the proposed changes. The recognition for new park facilities would have five categories, a bronze, silver, gold, platinum and diamond category.
 The bronze category would recognize donors with donations from $25,000 up to $250,000 for park amenities such as batting cages, picnic tables, bleachers and all. And the size of the donor wall would be approved by city council.
 Then we have the silver category, which is naming rights for a 10-year period. So if someone donates up to $250,000, just 75% of the cost of a new facility, whether it's a soccer field, baseball field, tennis court, or some type of a water feature, they would have a naming right for only 10 years.
 But if they donate 100% of a new facility cost over $250,000, they would be in the gold category. A platinum category is the naming rights for a complex with a donation of $1 to $5 million to complete a whole complex. Or the diamond category is naming rights of a park. So donations of $5 million or more would allow someone to name a park. Okay.
 And then we would also have a recognition for existing park facilities. So if the existing facilities that we have, if someone would like to donate $200,000 for a baseball or softball field for 10 years, or they could $350,000 for two fields. Those are for a 10-year period only.
 And then a soccer field, if they donate $150,000 for 10 years, their name would be on it, or $350,000 for two fields. Then we have our trails facilities category, which is a silver and a gold category. We're not requesting any changes in that. So that's what we have. We hope that you will consider this amendment to the ordinance that will help us to raise funds.
 for our park system, not only regional park, but other future park projects too. Do we have any questions? What questions do we have for Connie on this? Sarah. Okay, so I see on some of them they have the naming rights for a 10-year period, but then when you get into the gold and platinum and diamond, is that the naming rights in perpetuity, or is there a sunset on that as well? That would be probably as long as the facility would last. Okay.
 I don't think we don't really have a sunset date on that. I was a little reluctant to put any wording in that would say it would be a forever naming. There have been facilities in the past that have been named for people that sometimes other things happen to them and they have to be unnamed in the future. I also like to guard not only the power of this city council, but the power of future city councils. And so...
 I was a little reluctant to say this was going to be in perpetuity. I'm not sure exactly how we would characterize it, but that's why Connie didn't have any specific language for that. I was uncomfortable with that, and I'm certainly willing to listen to whatever you all want to say for that. But that was why she didn't have that language, because I was a little bit concerned that you might have to prove somebody's name, something happened, or...
 A new city council might decide, well, you know, this is, you know, we want to name it for somebody else, a very, you know, the next president came from Fayetteville, and so they wanted to name the park for that. So...
 That's been my concern about it, and so that's why it's not spelled out except in the 10-year one. Yeah, and I guess I'm uncomfortable with it as well because it seems like, you know, maybe they donate a sport complex and then 20 years from now it needs a major revamp, and then are we liable to keep it the original name or can we rename it to the donor that—
 you know, pays for the upgrade. So I guess I'd like a little more clarity in that, you know, maybe we say it's naming rights for 25 years or something, but I do feel like the sunset clause is a good idea. I think I'd feel more comfortable with this if we had that on all of them. I agree with all the woman marsh. What we might look at is the coach's contract
 It has language that says if you do anything that embarrasses our city, we'll remove your name. That's what we do with our coaches. It works there. You might consider that. Just an idea. Okay. Alan. I have a question on Section 97.088, signs prohibited, Section D, facility naming.
 Where it says the naming of the facilities is permitted so long as the donor or honoree has made a significant contribution to the city, the facility, the Parks and Recreation Department in terms of financial donations, volunteerism, dedicated public service. Keeps going. It says final naming of a facility shall be recommended by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board with final approval by the City Council and naming of the facilities must meet the naming park facilities operations policy attached as exhibit B.
 That's on page 261, but on page 272, basically the policy just says that the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board has to meet, discuss, and approve their recommendation, and then the City Council can only approve that. But can the City Council, being the final legislative body, not—
 change the name to whatever they want it to be? Certainly. Well, we have to certainly follow our ordinances, and I think the City Council should certainly have the final authority on that. Because the ordinance says that we have to follow this Parks and Recreation revised policies and procedures, which says that they get the final say, basically. We just get to approve it. So I'd like to offer an amendment that the City Council... That's not the intention. That's not the intention. That's just the way it reads, I guess.
 City Council has final approval of the name. It says we get final approval, but we can only approve what they recommend. Well, Kip, what say you? Well, I think we need to leave this on the first reading, and we'll discuss this at the next meeting. All right. Sounds good to me. And take into account also the other comments about not quite permanent naming rights. Okay. Okay.
 That sounds wonderful. Everybody good? Good. All right. I guess is there any public comment on this before we move along and leave it on the first reading? All right. Ooh. Not why I came here, but Peter Tonneson, 3500 Hearthstone Drive. I agree with an issue that Mr. Williams identified and maybe Mr. Latour has corrected, which is what do you happen when—it's like on American Greed.
 where one of these scoundrels donates a lot of money, and you name something after him, and then he winds up going to the federal penitentiary for five years. This is just a comment, that when I grew up, parks and places like that were named after war heroes, police officers who were killed in the line of duty and things like that. And I don't know exactly where this ordinance is headed. I understand the city...
 likes to attract money to provide these facilities, and I'm a big user of these facilities. But I don't ever want to have to tell Georgia that I'm going to get a drink from Roto-Rooter Fountain at Preparation H baseball field at Big Mac Park. I mean, I hope—I grew up in a city where we were deluged with advertising everywhere we went.
 Part of the charm of a place, if you've ever lived in Europe, which I've been blessed to do four years of my life, is they don't let that happen over there. I also grew up when Lady Bird Johnson set in motion this dismantling of billboards that used to litter the countryside. And even in the eastern corridor where I grew up, those billboards came down, and life became a lot more humane, a lot nicer.
 So I just hope this doesn't get taken too far and that there are restrictions. And what are you going to do, it's just food for thought, what are you going to do when a merchant wants to give you a lot of money but insists on a name that maybe the planning commission doesn't like or the parks commission doesn't like? So just think about those things when you come up with a final solution. Okay, anybody else?
 All right, bring it back to the council. We're going to leave it on the first reading, right? Yes. Okay. All right, number four. An ordinance to amend 174.07, placing signs on public and private property by clarifying the placement of directional and wayfinding signs on public property and acting a new subsection, trail F, trail trailhead wayfinding signs and recognition markers, KET.
 Whereas the Razorback Greenway Trail, which runs from Fayetteville all the way through Bentonville, has been achieved by the cities of Fayetteville, Johnson, Springdale, Lowell, Rogers, and Bentonville with organizational and financial assistance from the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission and the Walton Family Foundation.
 And whereas all of the cities wish to place commonly designed mileage, directional, wayfinding, informational, and interpretive signs along the length of the Razorback Greenway to assist with user safety, orientation, and information,
 And whereas the regionally developed design concept includes recognition for governmental and non-profit organizations that provide organizational and or significant financial assistance to make the trail system a reality. And whereas the City of Fayetteville wishes to continue a cohesive, coordinated wayfinding sign program as funding becomes available on all of its trails for citizens and visitors alike.
 And whereas an ordinance amendment is needed to clearly establish the intent and parameters of wayfinding, directional, and trail signage. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fable, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals Section 174.07, placing signs on public and private property, and enacts a replacement Section 174.07, placing signs on public property, as shown in the attacked Exhibit A.
 And I'll now yield to Jeremy. Staff is recommending an amendment to our sign ordinance in Unified Development Code Chapter 174, essentially to permit a coordinated informational, interpretive, and wayfinding signs along our trail system. As you all know, the highly anticipated Razorback Regional Greenway Trail was recently opened. This 37 mile multi-use trail connects South Fayetteville with North Bentonville through all the cities mentioned before.
 The project was made possible with the assistance of the Regional Planning Commission, all the cities participating in matching funding, a federal grant, and also with private funding sources, most notably the Walton Family Foundation. We benefited directly from those contributions, a lot of interaction and assistance from the Regional Planning Commission.
 design and construction of our southern and northern extensions of the trails about almost four million dollars which came directly from Foundation support we continue to seek out ways to leverage our local taxpayer funds private foundation and federal grants and you all see those annually as we bring those to you for consideration and
 In addition to the construction of the Greenway itself, the cities have again collaborated to create a regional trail wayfinding interpretive informational sign plan which is attached to your packet. Similar to the wayfinding sign program along our streets and sidewalks in downtown, this particular, the trail signs share a common design theme throughout the region that enhances the shared collaboration of effort and provides a cohesive and consistent messaging for all of our users.
 the first phase are constructed those are mile markers each mile beginning with mile zero at our south southern location terminus and all the way to through mile 37 um our area
 installed each city funded their own mile markers and the Regional Planning Commission coordinated all the procurement process and the contracting and installation of those these mile markers obviously serve as wayfinding signs allowing recreational users and travelers the ability to know how far they've traveled but importantly they also allow for first responders and others who need to quickly determine where they are on the trail assistance in doing so there are ten mile markers installed in Fayetteville
 beginning again at the trail in South Fayetteville. The city's ordinance currently permits signs to be placed on public property, which these trails are.
 sign ordinance that we have currently was really developed for traffic signs your stop signs your speed limit signs Yield signs things that at that nature so after discussing with mr. Williams We looked at this and are proposing an amendment to essentially state what our way finding signs are where we utilize them And the purpose of our trail trail signs as well which include interpretive informational and way finding signs
 In addition, the term wayfinding has been added to this section to clarify what the use of those signs are for. As you all know, you approved an item in our CIP for this year and next to add a phase three for that, so we're working on that currently. Staff's recommending approval of this ordinance amendment, and we'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Sarah. On 174.07 , I'm sorry.
 um it i'm sorry d informational kiosks um it says that informational kiosks with a map of the downtown master plan area may be placed within the city right away by the city the kiosks shall contain a map or description of the downtown master plan area public buildings and facilities parking areas and entertainment goes on so does this preclude us from putting maps and informational kiosks of other areas of town such as the
 uptown or around like the Gregg Township intersection and other areas where people need to be able to navigate from the trail to other destinations. It would not preclude directional signage, so you know, we can't place businesses on those signs, but a public area that someone's needing to find, you know, a trailhead location, a public park location, any of those public essentially things that we've identified in
 you could certainly provide arrows distances and we've begun doing that as part of our way finding sign a map it seems to intend the intent it seems to is to limit those kiosks within high pedestrian uses in downtown of course this section was created when we just had the downtown master plan boundary
 I'm just thinking you know if somebody if you you know get to uptown and you'd like to see a map of uptown So that you can navigate you know to wherever you're trying to get and it wouldn't necessarily have to locate specific businesses but I think it may be also just that the I
 semantics of it so again section D was created before we had any way finding signs I really would probably look at and a directional away finding informational interpretive sign is being allowed within our trail system if you look at the master plan that includes
 It clearly includes maps of our trail system, where you are. You know, you are here with the overall trail system located on that. A lot of the trailhead signage also includes interpretive information as well as a map of where you are within the regional trail system. So I really think that unless you think differently, Kit, I think they would fall within those wayfinding signs and interpretive and informational signs that could be permitted on our trail system. Because, you know, I think that it does include –
 I do see that as you helping you navigate within the trail But you know We want to be able to use our trail to access other things that are off the trail And it just seems like we might be making this a little narrow Well as Jeremy said this was this predated the directional wayfinding signs. I
 And so it was done when we did the downtown master plan, and it was directed toward our entertainment area, where of course there's the vast majority of our pedestrian traffic. And that's why it was directed toward that. I don't see any reason why they could not be in other places, and I don't know if we really, a kiosk in itself is not, I guess we could if you wanted to, just simply expand the definition, or maybe even,
 Include other areas if you wanted to or the ends of trails if that's if that's what you wanted to do if that was what the city was planning on placing kiosks in other areas and
 I think if you wanted to be clear, you could simply in Section D strike out downtown Master Plan area where it says that twice and basically state informational kiosks with a map may be placed within a city right away by the city. The kiosk shall contain a map and or description of the area, public buildings and facilities, et cetera. And so you could simply strike that portion and amend it that way. Then I move that we go ahead and strike that portion.
 A longer thought before we go on to that, if I could. I was just going to suggest that we change it to informational kiosks with a map of master plan areas. For instance, like we did the Weddington Corridor plan, master plan for that area. And Uptown's been identified and they could do a master, when they do the master plan on that area. And that way it does allow assembly way.
 And we also are identifying those key areas that we've, staff has spent the time and money
 i just think if you go to like get off the trail and trying to get to fiesta square it's really unclear how to get there from our trail system right now and if at the fiesta square exit there was a some way finding signage or just the area i think that would be really helpful to help people understand that they can connect to more things using our trail system so i feel like just using master planned areas might be a little too specific because we don't have the area master plan
 I second the motion. OK. Alan, did you want to say anything else on it? Yeah, I'm good. The video the way, it was just an idea. So we have an amendment. To remove downtown master plan area. No, not area. I'm sorry. You leave the area in, but downtown. Yeah, downtown master plan. Thank you. OK. Everybody good with that? All righty. Is there any public comment on the amendment?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Is there anything else? Okay, we're going to take some public comment on this. Is there any public comment on this? Okie dokie. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 And so. May we go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second. Go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Schaumann. Leter. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes.
 In order to amend section 174.07, placing signs on public and private property by clarifying the placement of directional and wayfinding signs on public property and enacting a new subsection F, trailhead wayfinding signs and recognition markers. I guess I could say and kiosks.
 Yes, sir. One more area. In Section C, on the small banners and certain light poles, again, that's limiting us to the downtown master plan area. And I would really like to strike within the boundaries of the downtown master plan area so that basically we can put the banners...
 on any of the light poles specially designed and constructed for such banners. So, again, you know, if there's a festival in Uptown or Midtown or something, if we have the appropriate light poles there, I think we should be able to put banners on them. So you— Yes, so— I'll second it. Everybody got that? Okay. Any public comment on that amendment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay, we need a. We have a motion to second go to the third and final read. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Shop Marts. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. An ordinance to amend Section 174.07, placing signs on public and private property by clarifying the placement of directional and wayfinding signs on public property and enacting a new subsection F, trailhead wayfinding signs and recognition markers.
 Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. One announcement, Stewie. Mayor, a couple of announcements. We want to welcome all of the associate shareholders for Walmart in our community this week.
 They're hosting their annual shareholders meeting, and we have many individuals in town, so we want to welcome them. Secondly, the Super Regional, the University of Arkansas is hosting a Super Regional baseball tournament this weekend at Baum Stadium.
 make our citizens aware of that. Also Friday our Wilson Park pool opens for the season at 5 p.m. and our first dive-in movie Toy Story 3 will be shown that evening at dark. It is a free day for the pool people who attend. Anybody else? Okay well thank you all very much we're adjourned.