Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, I'm just going to get to this tonight. We had the loss of a staffer last night, Tyrone Rogers, while he was filming the quorum court. And it's a...
 It's a loss, certainly, for this city. And he was with the government channel about six years, and certainly our condolences goes out to his family. But if you would join me in a moment of silence for Tyrone's family, I would appreciate that. Thank you, Council, very much. It is certainly a loss. Next order of business, we have the first quarter financial report that Paul Becker will give.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is going to be a report on the operating results of the first quarter of the year. And again, that's January through March. And I'll go over it a little bit fund by fund. In the general fund, we have a surplus of about a half a million dollars. That's because the sales tax was strong.
 was up about 4.8% above budget at that point in time, but remember there's been some fluctuation there. We've had two months that were up, one month it was down, and then in April we were down a little bit, but again this is through March.
 So we have about a $500,000 surplus. Now that's good. Remember, when we get to April, we'll pick up one more payroll. So we do have to build a bit of surplus because we have three payrolls in the month of April.
 Expenses were just about 25% of the total budget, which is where they should be expected in an operating fund. So they were where I expected. Building permits were very strong, which is one of the major reasons for our surplus at that point in time. They were up about $300,000 through the first quarter because of the increased volume of primarily commercial
 being looked at in the in the uh... planning and uh... building group so they were very very strong street fund had deficit about a hundred fifty thousand dollars that's somewhat to be expected uh... we do have a lot of capital going on in the street fund but it's right about where i would have targeted to be at this point in time the parking fund was up fifteen percent of revenue which is very very good
 We have a $200,000 surplus in the parking fund. That's a good thing because as we move forward, we've got maintenance to do on some of the current parking lots, so we have to look at taking care of that. And, of course, with the new parking garage coming online, we're going to have to take a look at maintenance and build over time for that. That also puts us in a good position as far as making the bond payments. Remember, we still have roughly $5 million outstanding
 IN THE BOND ISSUE, EXCUSE ME, I SAID $5, $6 MILLION OUTSTANDING IN THAT BOND ISSUE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PARKING LOT. PARK DEVELOPMENT WAS UP GOOD. THE REVENUE WAS STRONG THERE, ROUGHLY 10%. THAT'S A GOOD THING. WE'RE SHOWING A DEFICIT OF $1.4 MILLION IN THE PARK DEVELOPMENT FUND. REMEMBER THAT THE REGIONAL PARK IS GOING ON AND WE'RE NEARING THE COMPLETION OF PHASE 1.
 Everything is going good there and again that was budgeted for a deficit for the completion of phase one for the regional park. However revenue is up, that's a good thing. We'll need money for more operations, operating costs for the regional park when it comes online and of course we're all excited about that.
 Capital fund was about the $20,000 deficit, which is about where I would have expected at this point in time. We have spent roughly 29% of that fund so far in the first quarter.
 So a lot of the capital projects that we had planned are moving ahead and we're moving forward on that. Water and sewer, the revenues were up 6 tenths of a percent for water, 7 tenths of a percent for sewer. Remember we did have a rate increase, so as far as total volume is concerned, the water consumption was down in the first quarter.
 uh... the deficit for the period was about nine hundred eighty seven thousand dollars and again remember we have a lot of capital projects going on in the water and sewer fund at this point in time we've got roughly uh... fifteen million dollars worth projects going on in that fund uh... trash and recycling
 Revenues were pretty pretty flat We did have we did have a surplus for the period remember. We are also moving ahead on that moving ahead with the construction out on the new facility for the recycling and trash collection fund their point is
 The airport fund was down about $50,000 in revenue, had about $150,000 deficit. Remember, we do have some capital moving there. All in all, I think it was a good quarter for the city. Everything is pretty near what I would have expected. I will caution on us that, and the council, that as we go forward in the general fund, we're gonna start seeing some fluctuation, I think in sales tax. We've experienced that a bit so far.
 Construction looks good, as we seem to have a lot of new businesses coming in. But I think we'll have a strong year this year. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul tonight on this? Anything? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Thank you. The next order of business I have tonight on the agenda is the consent agenda. I'm sorry. I knew you had a report, but I don't seem to have it on my agenda. It's not on the agenda. Okay. I'm trying to request this to be put at that point. Okay.
 Okay, well, why don't you just go ahead and speak. Okay, we have the third quarter nominating committee report we met last night, and it's incredible. Everyone knows that Fayetteville is an engaged community, but we had a record number of applications. We...
 probably saw the most skilled and impressive group of individuals that you can imagine come out that wants to be engaged in the community, and a very limited number of openings for the third quarter.
 What I want to really encourage is anyone that didn't get selected or is not on the slate this evening, I hope that they will stay interested and they will look for opportunities in the future because traditionally the third quarter is not a quarter where we have a lot of openings. But I submit for consideration the following nominees for commissions, committees, boards.
 The mayor, and with the consent of the nominating committee, nominates Catherine Cook to the Historic Commission, one term ending 6-30-19, and David Stewart to the Historic Commission, one term ending 6-30-19.
 The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. For the Animal Services Advisory Board, we did not receive an application for the veterinarian position, so we still have an opening for a veterinarian. Megan Foale, one business representative term ending 6-30-19. Brittany Woolridge, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-19.
 For the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, Brad Beach, one unexpired alternate member term ending 3-31-21. For the Environmental Action Committee, we have one opening and we nominate the reappointment of Connie Crisp for one term ending 6-30-19. Thank you.
 for the Fayetteville Arts Council and again this was a record-breaking interest as that shows truly how engaged we are in supporting the arts here in our community we recommend David Kersey for one working artist term ending 6 30 19. Casey Mayer one working artist term ending 6 30 19. Samantha Sigman one unexpired arts and cultural citizen at large ending
 630 17 and Cody Ford one arts and cultural citizen at large position ending 630 19 For the Walton Arts Center Council we had to reappointment suggestions Steve Clark one term ending 630 19 and Barbara Taylor one term ending 630 19 and I submit this to City Council for consideration and approval I'll entertain a motion and a second to accept the nominating may nominations for
 Just a point of procedure. The City Council's rules of order and procedure require agenda additions like this to be added by suspension of the rules, which requires a two-thirds vote. And then you would have a separate vote on the nominations themselves. Not a mistake.
 all right so we need a motion a second to put this on the agenda correct a motion to suspend the rules and add it to the agenda so moved second the motion is second to suspend the rules and add this to the agenda i'm trying what button there's no button
 But we do have a motion and a second. Well, I've got to enter the action. It should be there, but not there now. Suggested action. Okay, well, we're good then, right? It should be there.
 Okay, any discussion on that or anything? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Do we have a motion and a second? Yeah, Mark and Megan. It's on the screen, so you'll have to put it. Okay. Who was it? Mark and... It was a mover and long and second. It was a mover and Mark. It was a mover and long and second. Now can you see it on the screen? No. No. I don't know what you said.
 Okay. Yes. Right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mark. No. Mayor, you may vote as the sixth vote for two thirds. If you like. Yes. Motion passes. Okay. The next order of business is consent. Next, you need a motion to approve the nominating committee report. Sorry. Okay.
 and again adela i would like to make a motion that we accept this flight of nominees second have motion second shall the motion pass long yes right yes yes yes yes yes no motion passes okay adele i see that you still have the floor
 Do you wish to say anything else? No, thank you. Okay. Then I'm going to move along to consent agenda. Now I can go to consent agenda. All right. Number one, approval of the May 17, 2016 City Council Meeting Manage. Number two, resolution to award bid number 16-23 and to approve contract JBZ Incorporated DBA-20.
 Ellingson contracting in the amount of two hundred and eighty seven thousand three hundred dollars for the construction of kitchen renovations at the federal senior center to approve a project contingency in the amount of thirty thousand one hundred and fifty three dollars to approve change order number one to reflect value engineering items and reduce the contract amount by fifty three thousand five hundred and sixty dollars and to approve a budget adjustment number three
 A resolution to award bid number 16-31 and authorize the purchase of a 2016 Plymouth Starlight 3829 tandem axle dump trailer from Hiltbilt Sales Corporation of Benton, Arkansas. Any amount of $39,590 plus applicable taxes for use by the city water and
 Wastewater treatment facilities number four a resolution toward the number 16 days 33 and to authorize the purchase of two 2016 Ford f-350 flatbed trucks from superior automotive group of Solomon Springs, Arkansas and
 and the total amount of $66,558 for use by the City wastewater treatment facilities. Number 5, a resolution authorized the purchase of a 2016 Caterpillar 420 F2 backhoe from Riggs Cadmium Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $95,620 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement used by the Transportation Department.
 Number six, a resolution authorized the purchase of 2016 Caterpillar 259D Skid Steer from Riggs Cat of Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $55,000 presented to a National Joint Powers Alliance Co-operative Purchasing Agreement produced by the Water and Sewer Operations Division.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2013 Dodge Caravan from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $17,771 for use by the Airport Services Division and to approve a budget adjustment. Number eight, a resolution to approve a Special Needs Assistance Program grant agreement with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the amount of $188,525
 for the city to administer programs to provide rental assistance to supportive services and supportive services to the homeless federal residents. Number nine, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McGoodwin Williams and Yates Incorporated and amount not to exceed $182,077 for a water master plan update for the design, bidding and construction phase services for the replacement of approximately 3000 feet of water line on the Dinkmore Trail.
 number 10 a resolution authorized to authorize application for an acceptance of a 9010 matching grant from the federal aviation administration to provide funding for the taxiway line rehabilitation project great field to approve contract with h h electric incorporated any amount of 222 755 dollars for the project
 contingent upon a grant award and to approve a budget adjustment authorizing airport fund matching expense and recognizing grant revenue contingent upon approval of the grant application and receipt of the grant funds number 11 a resolution to prove a lease agreement with the Board of Trustees University of Arkansas for the unoccupied banquet area and the airport terminal building to be used by the oh sure lifelong learning
 Institute to conduct classes during the fall 2016 spring of 2017 semesters in the amount of $25 per per each day the space is used and number 12 a resolution to prove one-year lease agreement with Rogers Incorporated for office space in the airport terminal building in the amount of $330 per month to provide in-flight catering services. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read Justin I
 i move we accept the consent agenda is red alan second we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda as read shall the motion pass the council doesn't cancel through this screen now i don't see a voting um button my request to speak came up but then now it says i have motion but it doesn't have there we go now it has alan i'm reporting it for you
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Motion passes. Okay. The next order of business is a public hearing.
 I'm going to open a public hearing on a resolution certifying to the tax collector of Washington County, Arkansas, the costs of evading unsightly and unsanitary conditions and the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure upon the property owned by the U.S. Bank National Association at 550 West Skelton Street in the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Who has this? Hit your middle button and it'll take it. And then we can vote, I think.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. On March 31st, the code compliance completed the large scale cleanup and raising and removal of the property located at 550 West Skelton. And this resolution is simply to certify the tax collector to place the lien on the property for the amount of the project. Okay. What questions do we have from the Council on this? Yes, John. Tell me the process. How do we go through the process of notifying the owner, in this case the owner of the property,
 bank association? Our notices of violation are sent via certified mail and they contain all the information pertinent to the violations, the means of correcting said violations. Depending on the violation, there's various time frames for the property owner to bring the property into compliance. Did this owner respond in any way? No, sir. They signed for the mail, but we had no correspondence with the owner.
 So can we prove they received it? Someone signed it, but who was that someone? We just have the fact that the mail was picked up. So the owner may not know yet. It is a large, you know, U.S. National Bank, so I imagine they have a wide variety of stuff. I googled searched for that owner and I didn't really come up with anything.
 John, I would also add that we communicated with the attorneys who did the foreclosure on the property. They attempted to contact the owner, and nothing worked. Okay. So as far as we know, then, the owner may not have been contacted, or they didn't respond. They just didn't respond. Okay. Just want to be sure that...
 Everybody knows what's going on with their property. Right. He who fails to act suffers the consequences. Correct. And they are based out of Louisville, Texas, so it could be just that they have no interest in the property. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? I'm still on the floor. Do we have another question? No questions. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay.
 All right, let's take some public comment. Who would like to address us on this? Is the owner here? No? Okay. Anybody else from the public would like to address us? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Allen. Motion to pass the resolution. Marty. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Shall a motion pass? Okay, that's fine. We did it a lot of years around here before we had this.
 i remember the good old days don't you mayor i still have the good yes yes yes yes yes yes motion passes okay next order business tonight is unfinished business
 Number one, under unfinished business, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5385 for approximately 35.31 acres on Dead Horse Mountain Road from RA, residential agriculture, to RSF2, residential single family, two units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance limiting development to 51 homes. Mayor. Yes, chairman. Just a quick announcement.
 A little over a week ago, we received a request from the applicant that, or a notification of the applicant they would not be able to be present tonight. We informed the council last Tuesday at the agenda session that we would likely not maybe making a presentation or hearing this item tonight.
 and they've requested the item simply either be continued, left on the second reading, or tabled to the next meeting. Subsequently, I also spoke to two neighbors within the neighborhood that spoke at the last meeting. We also discussed at that time that we likely would not be considering this for a vote tonight, so I just want to make sure that you all are aware of that for those of you who did not attend the agenda session. I think it's on the first one right now, isn't it? Mm-hmm.
 believe right where it is okay very good all right moving along to new business number one in order to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 16-5400 for approximately 1.43 acres located at the southeast corner of persimmon and broils avenue from ra residential agricultural and nc neighborhood conservation to nc neighborhood conservation and r a residential agriculture
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural and N.C. Neighborhood Conservation to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation and R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jeremy? Aaron Council, this property is located at the southeast corner of Broyles Avenue and 1st Simmons Street. You can see a map up here on your screens. It contains approximately 1.42 acres. There are two sites, essentially, each about 7 tenths of an acre. Okay.
 This applicant is requesting to rezone the property, essentially switching the zoning. The one there to the south is currently zoned are a residential agricultural and the one to the northwest is zoned neighborhood conservation. They'd like to switch that. You can tell the plot for the development essentially shows that it's a much more feasible to develop this area.
 We felt like this proposed zoning change was compatible with the surrounding residential and natural properties. You can tell to the north of this is all zoned residential agricultural along the stream there. We felt it was justified and needed and so did the Planning Commission with a vote of 9 to 0 and so we're recommending approval of this rezoning request. What questions do we have from council? Allen. Sorry, I couldn't get back to that screen fast enough. I'd just like to say I haven't heard anything from anyone in Ward 4 about this.
 Just left the council. How about okay anybody else? Okay, any public comment on it They'll bring it back to the council Okay, Justin, I mean we should spend the rules and go the second reading now Second we have a motion a second ago the second read shall the motion pass Yes
 Yes. Yes. Motion passes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5400 for approximately 1.43 acres located at the southeast corner of Persimmon and Broyles Avenue from RA Residential Agricultural and NC Neighborhood Conservation to NC Neighborhood Conservation and RA Residential Agricultural.
 motion to move to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading adela second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass yes right yes kenyan yes yes yes yes motion passes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5400 for approximately 1.43 acres located at the southeast corner of Persimmon and Broyles Avenue from RA Residential Agricultural and NC Neighborhood Conservation to NC Neighborhood Conservation and RA Residential Agricultural. Any final comments from the council? John? No? Sorry, never mind. It's all right. It's all right. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Shall the ordinance pass?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 of an access easement. Click. Whereas in 2000, city planning staff requested that Angela Stevens vacate the old Farmington Road, 30 foot right of way, to eliminate a dangerous traffic condition and because the city determined the unimproved street was not needed and would not be improved by the city and whereas the only potential need for public access on this old street was for solid waste and recycling so that the vacation should have been conditioned upon such limited access easement.
 and whereas the ordinance mistakenly left out the words which would have properly limited access only for solid waste and recycling trucks, so now the owners cannot prevent dangerous cut through traffic, including many student driven motor scooters, which has worsened the traffic condition,
 the dangerous traffic situation which the 2000 vacation of the 30 foot right of way was designed to prevent and whereas the city council has the authority under ACA section 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described access easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the access easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Chairman.
 Mayor, Council, I believe the ordinance explains most of this item, but the right-of-way that you see, the access easement that you see on your screen there is south of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and east of Beachwood Avenue. The right-of-way was vacated back in 2000 by the City Council as a public street right-of-way. However, there was an access easement maintained for the purposes of solid waste and recycling to access properties within this area. Okay.
 With the advent of new student housing development along Beachwood, two separate projects, there's much more traffic within this area and much of that traffic is cutting through this access easement. The issue at hand today is that the business directly south of this property utilizes that essentially driveway for much of their loading and unloading operations for their business there. And it has become a safety issue with so much cut through traffic.
 The true intent of retaining the access easement back in 2000 was simply for solid waste and recycling access. They no longer need that access. The building they were accessing there is no longer in existence. And so we are recommending as the applicant has requested to vacate that access easement in perpetuity. Is the applicant here or? Yes please would you like to say a few words to the council?
 Hi, y'all. I'm Angela Stevens and Jeremy stated it well. It's just become a safety issue for us with the cut-through traffic. And in order to protect my employees, the general public, and my business, we'd like to get that access easement vacated if we could.
 Yes. Any questions for the applicant or Jeremy on this? I'd just like to say thank you for reaching out to us before the meeting with all the information and following through with that. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. All right. Any public comment on this? I'm sorry. Does the council have any more questions? Is there any public comment on this? See, none. I'll bring it back to the council.
 Now. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Adela. I second the motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Long. Yes. Rice. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Legere. Yes. Motion passes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5404 submitted by Angela Stevens for property located at 1649 West Farmington Street to vacate portions of an access easement.
 motion to move to the third and final reading second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass long yes ray yes kenyon yes kennett yes stopmeyer yes yes motion passes an ordinance to approve vac 16-5404 submitted by angela stevens for property located at 1649 west farmington street to vacate portions of an access easement
 okay any final comments from the council on this okay shall the ordinance pass long yes right yes union yes yes shotmeyer yes yes ordinance passes okay
 number three a resolution to approve a long-term lease of the spring and west parking lot with theater square incorporated to construct a performance theater with educational and community event space chairman
 excuse me in october of last year the city council approved a resolution expressing the city's intent in support of theater squared to negotiate a lease to utilize the property at the southeast corner of west avenue and spring street for a new performance facility that facility can be located here on your map it currently contains a 54 space parking lot municipal parking lot that was purchased by the city in 1995 from the fayetteville school district number one um
 The mayor, staff, and city attorney's office have all worked together with Theatre Squared over quite a few months of negotiations for this lease. The structure of the lease was based on the same structure as the Walton Arts Center's lease directly across the street, wherein the city and university own that property and a facility obviously is constructed there. Okay.
 The city will maintain ownership, fee sample of the property, and will simply lease the space for a long-term lease, 25 years with automatic renewals of 25 years apiece. And that's part of the terms of the lease. As you all know, Theater Squared is a nonprofit professional theater offering theater experiences for 30,000 or more patrons each year.
 It has grown over the last 10 years exponentially. They offer broadly accessible ticket prices, educational programs reaching at least 1,500 Fayable students at no cost, and free tickets for clients of various other nonprofit organizations in Fayable. It is a top-rated attraction, the top-rated attraction for Fayable, an online service trip advisor, and has received numerous national accolades and awards.
 As we discussed in October, staff fully supports this endeavor to locate a new performing arts facility and essentially a new home for Theater Squared in our downtown. We believe the economic and cultural impact of an extended, unique theater in the downtown can be a significant draw for tourism.
 And also economic development to the city, essentially a flourishing cultural and arts entertainment district only helps the other businesses that support that industry as well. So restaurants, shopping and other performance facilities and establishments in the area.
 Theater Squared has agreed as part of the lease agreement to fundraise and construct said major theatrical performance facility on the premises, including other customer convenience facilities such as a coffee shop or restaurant within the facility, a retail and gift shop, and even a residential facility for performing artists and related persons such as playwrights, etc.,
 Highly professional performances meeting at least at a minimum the quantity and quality of those performed over the past year are required as part of the lease. And Theater Squared may also provide facilities for community activities, educational program, and gathering spaces for the public. So not only will be a performance center, but really a community space for citizens to utilize and visit.
 During the initial discussion of this proposal, our finance director, Paul Becker, made it clear that the Spring Street parking deck had to be open. We had to understand that there was parking available. In addition, there will likely be additional parking available on street and on the site for users and staff of the facility. But in full disclosure, this will obviously replace 54 spaces that are currently as part of our entertainment district parking area.
 staff is supporting supportive of this lease agreement we've worked as i mentioned the mayor's worked long and hard to secure the terms of this i believe martin miller and others from theater square are here to answer any questions or present the items of the specific project if you have those but we're we're excited to to bring this portion of the project to you yeah like say a few words martin bob
 Evening, everyone, and thanks for taking the time to talk this through with us. I'm Martin Miller. I'm the executive director of Theatre Squared. And I'm Bob Ford. I'm the artistic director, and it is truly a great privilege to be here this evening. Thank you. And on behalf of Theatre Squared's board, staff, artists, and audience, we're happy to be able to share the vision taking shape on the corner of West and Spring in downtown Fayetteville.
 The City Council's unanimous support for TheatreSquared's use of a site in a resolution last fall was really a major shot in the arm for this project, and we are sincerely, sincerely grateful. Our first ten years in residence at Walton Arts Center at the Nadine Baum Studios have been exciting, to say the least. We've grown from an idea into a nationally recognized organization with a $2 million annual budget,
 and this season we've passed 40,000 in yearly attendance. And as you'll see in your packet, the vision for the site is indeed significant. It is a 50,000 square foot professional theater building housing intimate performance and rehearsal spaces, design workshops, staff offices, education space, artists' residences, and public spaces that are open all day to audience members and the community.
 and working with Marvel Architects and Charcoal Blue with the support of the Walton Family Foundation's Design Excellence Program, it has become clear that this building will be architecturally significant. And we look forward to having final designs to share with you all this fall. We're also in the quiet phase of a major fundraising campaign and hope to have news to share with you on that front towards the end of this year.
 Of course the economic development benefits for the city of Fayetteville and the downtown arts and entertainment district are also compelling. We have gotten research back that just in the two-year period encompassing the construction phase, it will have an impact in the local economy of a little over 40 million dollars, create the equivalent of 360 jobs.
 And after its completion, it's expected to double Theater Square's impact on the local economy to a little over $4.3 million each year.
 And of course, as Jeremy noted, just as importantly in the new facility, we can expand our partnerships with local organizations like Seven Hills and feed communities and faithful public schools to provide low and low cost and free tickets throughout the community and also bring in a lot more students to see the shows.
 Last March we asked a group of community members to help us create a vision statement. We shared it at a public input session at the Chancellor Hotel earlier this year, which had 100 community members came out and gave some really great thoughts and advice on what they'd prize for the new space. So we just wanted to share that vision statement with you guys.
 It states, we see Theatre Squared as its own center, a destination and a place of origin. The work created here will draw audiences from near and far and be our region's export to the world theater centers, Chicago, New York, and London. We see a gathering place, a theater commons, that's welcoming and fascinating, alive with activity, a building that draws the eye and evokes curiosity, a place that invites hints at the unusual and suggests something significant will happen here.
 Here in our community, we see a permanent home for remarkable theater done well and with passion, a premier national theater in downtown Fayetteville. So thank you. We appreciate your support for this vision and welcome any questions you have. All right. What questions do we have for the African art? Jeremy, please. Okay. Okay.
 Actually, I do have one quick question. Sure. And first of all, I'm in full support. I think this will be a local, regional, national building blocks of something just very, very special for our downtown and everything. So thank you very much for your efforts. I did have one question from a constituent that was curious on if you – I don't think you're deep into plans necessarily yet, but will there be –
 either community spaces or community use or some sort of idea of community involvement into the facility, whether it's indoor shows, outdoor shows. This person said they had been to some cities where there were some outdoor shows in some sort of form or fashion, which I thought was a cool idea on a pretty day. So anyway, I was just curious on the community involvement aspect of it.
 Yeah, that's the exact kind of sentiment we heard at the public input session too, and absolutely we want it to be, I think the popular term these days is porous. It's the idea that people circle in and out and are using it for the, you know, maybe they're seeing a show or maybe they're just coming in to sit. We're not too fond of the...
 this sort of traditional notion of a place that just doors open an hour before the show and shuts an hour afterwards but would rather have public spaces that are accessible all day both indoor and within the structure of the building outdoor spaces as well and so yes i don't certainly currently there's not in the plan an outdoor performance venue but there's the opportunity to have events outside and performances that spill out outside and
 And also, of course, a desire on our part to be inventive. Well, thank you for listening to the public in those input sessions because that's absolutely huge and kind of uncommon, I think. So thank you very much. It's been a pleasure. Anything else? Okay. Any public comment on this? Paul? Yes. I brought this to the attention of the council at the agenda session, but as your chief financial officer, I feel I should reinforce it here.
 Certainly with all projects there are in fact risks. I just wanted to point out that in section 39 of the contract, essentially a project of this size, Theater Square doesn't have the money to fund this right now. So they're going to have to go out and they're going to have to borrow the money.
 IN FACT, WHAT THEY DO, IF WE IMPROVE THIS LEASE, THIS GIVES THE LENDING INSTITUTION TO STAND IN THE SAME PLACE AS THEATRED SQUARE IN CASE THEATRED SQUARE DEFAULTS. WE ARE NOT TRANSFERRING TITLE TO THE PROPERTY TO THEATRED SQUARE, WE WILL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY MORTGAGE PAYMENTS. HOWEVER, IT WOULD GIVE THEM THE RIGHT TO STAND IN THE SAME
 specific place as theater square they would have the right the lending institution to find a replacement for theater square with the approval of the council to run the facility and we would still reap the same benefits so they would just stand in that position the risk of that of course is during a point of time it may be not in operation it may stand
 not being utilized until a mortgagee can find an acceptable group to run the programs and meet the terms and conditions of the contract to fulfill the contractual obligations. Obviously that's not infinite in time, that would have to be a reasonable period, but that's a risk that we would take. Again, we're not transferring title of the property, but this is a risk.
 uh... when we enter into the agreement to allow that landing institution into that certainly the theater squared has raised money or gotten pledges so far
 Walton Foundation certainly has been very, very generous to them with grants for the architectural phase and the initial phases, but that is a risk I feel as your chief financial officer I should make absolutely sure that we all understand. Okay. Do we have any questions for Paul? Certainly. Okay. Thank you, Paul. Any questions?
 mayor mayors do you have one final one comment i also want to make sure it's clear to the public that if this lease is approved tonight there's not going to be a fence put around the parking lot tomorrow and the lease takes effect essentially the terms of the lease indicate that the
 parking lot really is maintained by the public until such time as financing is in place, permits are ready, the large scale development or whatever process for project approval has taken place. So all those things, all those steps have to be approved and taken place before we actually relinquish the property for future construction. So I just want to make sure that's clear for the public as well. Okay. Al? I'd like to make a motion to pass the resolution.
 Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Well, I would just like to say that we've been in negotiations for probably over a year when Theater Square first came in.
 I sit on the Arts Council for the U.S. Congress of Mayors, and this is some of the very things that a lot of cities are doing all across the country, too. Because in the studies that we've seen to that committee, that the arts is the third best driver of an economic engine that you can have in your city or in your region. So it's sitting at number three. I think, personally, this will be—
 our state there will create kind of an arts campus down there if you will with the balton arts center and all that we have down there i think it's a real big win for us i think it's a big win for the downtown area and the community and it would be a great economic driver for this city so with that general resolution folks yes right yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Resolution passes. Okay, thank you. Number four, in order to sway the requirements for competitive bidding and to prove the cost share agreement with Marks & Wiking Incorporated for a water main upgrade along College Avenue between East Davidson Street and East Maple Street with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $73,100.40. Blake. Okay.
 Whereas, Mark Zweig Incorporated will be renovating the Twin Arches Motel located at 521 North College Avenue, a project which was approved by the City's Planning Commission on May 9, 2016. And whereas, during the course of design review by the City of Fayetteville, Mark Zweig Incorporated was made aware of an existing water volume fire flow issue with the existing water piping.
 whereas increasing the size of this approximately 250 foot segment from a two inch main to an eight inch main will alleviate the current water volume deficiency allow the development to connect and also allow for a secondary water loop to help prevent the possibility of residents losing water service in the event of a water leak in the area and whereas the city of fable would benefit from the cost share as it would facilitate future development and promote better fire flow in the
 and will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on site installing the larger line for this developer's project. And whereas section 51.112 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with Marks Weig Incorporated for a water main upgrade along College Avenue between East Davidson Street and East Maple Street.
 with the amount to be paid by the city if they will not to exceed $73,100.40. Okay, Jeremy, do you have this or who has this? Mark. Good evening, Council and Mayor. Mark Zweig Incorporated has proposed rehabilitation reconstruction of the existing Twin Arches Hotel at 521 North College Avenue. A two inch public water main exists on the west side of College Avenue between East Davidson Street and East Maple Street.
 In order to meet the minimum fire flow demands of this proposed redevelopment, Mark Zweig Incorporated must upgrade the two-inch line to an eight-inch line from East Davidson Street South to a proposed fire hydrant to service this development.
 it's in the best interest of the city utility department to replace the remaining two inch water line from this project south to east maple street to facilitate future development promote better fire flow in the vicinity and also allow for a secondary water loop to help prevent the possibility of residents losing water service in the event of a water leak in the area
 The cost would benefit, the city would benefit from the cost share by utilizing the developer's contractor who will already be on site performing water line installation. The city's cost is 48.5 percent of the project which is $60,917 and adding a 20% contingency for a total of $73,100.40. There's money available for this project in water and sewer impact fees
 cost-sharing projects and staff recommends approval of this resolution. Questions we have Alan? My only question is and I appreciate and understand that we have a cost share agreement but would utilizing city staff in the water and sewer department to install the line be any cheaper than that for our portion?
 We haven't looked at that. We do have a considerable workload currently, so I think it'd be to our advantage to have the contractor that's already going to be in the area to do the work. Is there any way we can find out what that would cost? Mayor, if I could make a comment. We can certainly get that cost estimate, but it's not a matter of the cost. It's a matter of the time to do the project. So our current staff is...
 for the year for all of our CIP and our water sewer line work projects, and so it's a timing issue. Chair Greg Musil Okay.
 In the water sewer budget, we already have the funds to do this. We're looking at the rehabilitation of the aging infrastructure downtown, and we also are looking at having loop activity as mentioned. So in case there's a break in a line in one area, we can come into the other way and not lose water in that loop. So the timing of this could not be better as we're looking at the improvement of the infrastructure
 And to have someone come in with this kind of money that's going to contribute to something that we're already looking at doing has been a—the timing could not be better.
 to get the improvements and a critically, okay, look at this, we're going from a two inch to an eight inch line. That's critical for the infill development in this area. So we see it as a very generous contribution from Zweig to come in and share the cost of something that we are going to have to do anyway.
 It's going to prevent future maintenance issues that we've had a lot in this area, as well as meet the goals of the improvement of the aging infrastructure in this part of town. So there's all sorts of benefits in managing the enterprise fund for the return on the investment and to have the value when we're looking at the return on the investment for the value to keep rates low. So I think there's real...
 timeliness in this as well as a Generous benefit to managing a good budget in this situation and it has been looked at internally Extremely critically. Thank you anybody else? Okay, so any public comment on this see now bring it back to the council. I
 Justin? Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adela? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Chapmar? Yes. McHugh? Yes. Motion passes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Mark Zweig Incorporated for a water main upgrade along College Avenue between East Davidson Street and East Maple Street with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $73,100.40. Okay. Justin? I move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela? I second that motion. I move to motion second to go to the third and final reading. Shell, motion passed.
 Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. McTier? Yes. Motion passes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with MarksWagg Incorporated for a water main upgrade along College Avenue between East Davidson Street and East Maple Street with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $73,100.40. Okay, any final comments from the Council on this?
 adele yes mayor i just want to say that i agree so much with what our sewer water chair mark kenyon has said because i think one of the things that i am extremely interested in is seeing us
 repair or replace our infrastructure in the older parts of town. And so I agree with him. When we can get some help with it financially, it's a win-win. So I'm very pleased with this. Good. Anybody else? Okay.
 So other final comments how the ordinance passed yes, yes, yes Yes ordinance passes
 Okay, number five. An ordinance to waive requirements to form a competitive bidding and authorize 25 year lease agreement with Ozarks Electric Corporation Incorporated for the purchase of 100 shares of the Ozarks National Energy Solar Facility in the amount of $34,000. Blake.
 Whereas Ozarks Electric recently constructed the only ground mounted solar photovoltaic array in northwest Arkansas and has offered 4,080 shares, each representing a single 400 watt solar panel for purchase by the cooperative's customers. Whereas the electricity produced by each panel will be credited to the member's account at a rate of 4 cents per kilowatt hour in 2016 and adjusted annually based on the wholesale cost of electricity.
 And whereas the purchase of 100 panels by the city would have a projected payback of eight years, with total savings over the 25-year life of the agreement estimated to be $75,000, and will help protect the city against the uncertainty of rising energy costs. And whereas the project supports continued energy market transformation...
 Saves taxpayer money, helps protect the environment, will quadruple the amount of electricity the city currently gets from renewable sources, and will advance the city's goal of achieving an 80% reduction in community-wide greenhouse gas emissions. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists...
 in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a 25-year license agreement between the City of Fayetteville and Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation, Inc. for the purchase of 100 shares at the Ozarks Natural Energy Solar Facility in the amount of $34,000. Peter. Peter.
 Mayor, Council, good evening. Ozarks Natural Energy is a one megawatt solar array that was recently constructed east of Springdale along Highway 412. And as Blake mentioned, the array has 4,080 shares that are available to Ozarks Electric members. Each share represents a discrete and unique 400 watt photovoltaic solar panel. The electricity produced by the panels will be credited to the member's account
 at a rate of 4 cents per kilowatt hour in 2016 and that rate will adjust upward annually based on the wholesale cost of power. Ozarks Electric will provide all the operations, maintenance and repairs for the panels and provides insurance coverage in case of any damage from storms or otherwise.
 Ozarks Natural Energy is the first and largest electric cooperative commercial-scale solar facility in Arkansas, and there's no other facility like it in this area that we could purchase electricity from. The mayor's office is recommending that we purchase 100 shares or panels as part of the solar array.
 at a cost of $34,000, and that would have a projected payback of eight years. The direct electricity savings over the 25-year life of the project are projected to be over $75,000. And Fayetteville's 100 panels would generate just over 54,000 kilowatt hours of electricity per year, and that electricity would...
 go towards offsetting electricity consumption at the new regional park in South Fayetteville, set to be completed later this year. It would offset approximately 20% of the electricity consumption at the regional park and save us around $2,100 in electricity costs during the first year as part of that offset.
 It'll also help advance the city's goal of achieving 80% reduction in community-wide greenhouse gas emissions by offsetting over 100,000 pounds of carbon dioxide emitted per year and prevent the burning of 50,000 pounds of coal to generate that equivalent electricity. This purchase of 100 chairs or panels from Ozarks Natural Energy was discussed at the April 18th Environmental Action Committee meeting and received unanimous support.
 budget for this project is being provided by the city's building energy efficiency project budget and In your packet there is a memo from the city attorney's office discussing the verbiage and the use of the word share to describe Panel typically the city would not be allowed to purchase shares or stock in a corporation but in this instance because a share represents a unique and discrete panel on this project site and
 The city attorney's office did not object to this purchase of shares. Also with us tonight is Chris Williams from Ozarks Natural Electric. He can answer any specific questions about the Ozarks Natural Energy Project, or I'm happy to answer any questions about this particular proposal. Okay, what questions do we have? John? Well, I'm interested in talking to Mr. Williams. Sure. I'd like... Yeah, hang on. Mr. Williams, would you care to come up? Sure.
 Thanks for having me. Certainly, Mr. Williams. I need an education. I hope you'll educate me and other members of our public. I hear these statistics and these kind of rumors going around that solar panels don't really pay for themselves. They cost more than they generate. Can you definitively say that's false or give me some stats or educate me? Why are you doing this? And very good question.
 The cost of solar panels have significantly dropped over the past few years. The idea of solar systems not paying for themselves is becoming more and more antiquated and false in essence. The way we're performing this program utilizing economies of scale
 We're we're bundling everything into one area where we can offset peaks in the evening that that ideally help the cooperative and help our members by offsetting that evening thrust of when people get home from work, kick on ACs, kick on everything. So that in essence
 adds to the value of this farm, we're saving money by utilizing the sun in that way. So as far as giving you an exact example, we can sure do what we need to do, but we've done a lot of studies on this, and this is the best way to go, steering most folks away from the rooftop. Okay.
 People have an option and this is another option folks that live in apartments folks that live in heavily treed areas They can't take advantage of the full sun, but but we've got an option for them So that's what we're making it available to for everybody that purchases power from us. Thank you Any other questions, okay, we have any public comment on this I
 OK, we're going to bring it back to the council. Adele? I'd like to go to the second reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Ryan? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Janet? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Lutier? Yes. Motion passes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a 25-year license agreement with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation, Inc. for the purchase of 100 shares at the Ozarks Natural Energy Solar Facility in the amount of $34,000. Now, motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Thank you.
 yeah second that motion the motion is second to go to the third and final reading shall emotion pass mom yes right yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Hennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Luture? Yes. Motion passes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a 25-year license agreement with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation, Inc. for the purchase of 100 shares of the Ozarks Natural Energy Solar Facility in the amount of $34,000. Any final comments from the council? John?
 I'm supporting this, and the way I view it is, if the solar panels really don't pay for themselves, that's your problem, Mr. Williams, not ours. We still get our discount, right? So the risk is on you, not on us. Thank you. Good job. John? Mayor, I want to applaud the council. Two weeks ago you sent me to an economic development meeting.
 convention, one of the largest in the U.S. It was in Las Vegas. It's a group called ICSC. And it's the largest retailers, the largest developers, brokers of development. There are also cities there that do recruitment for economic development at that. But there was a speaker. His name was Parag Khanna. He's a leading global strategist.
 that they had speak. And he made a statement that I think is very powerful and very much in line with the decisions that this council has been making. And that is that the winners and losers in the economy in the future will not be who is richest or poorest today, but those communities that are making investments in three areas.
 either in the area of transportation infrastructure, the area of communications infrastructure, specifically broadband, and thirdly, the area of energy infrastructure. And under the mayor's leadership with the staff and the council's vote in support of that, we've been working in all three of those areas, so it sure made me feel good that you continue to support these initiatives. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. Any other final comments? All right. Shall the ordinance pass? Yes.
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. St. Mark's. Yes. Yes. Ordinance passes. Okay. Number six, resolution to approve a modification to the existing tree preservation area at the Walton Arts Center for the purpose of installing public art.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. The tree preservation area is West Avenue between Walton Arts Center and Grubbs Parking or Grubbs and across the street from Walton Arts Center parking lot. The tree preservation area was dedicated to meet the minimum preservation requirements of the ongoing expansion. I'm sure you've seen the construction in that area.
 The request is to remove one honey locust and one smoke bush in order to construct public art, including a fountain sculpture, and to relocate two existing sculptures and construct permeable pavers in the tree preservation area. To offset the impact of the tree removal, the applicant is proposing to mitigate with six trees in the immediate area.
 The tree preservation area is a well-manicured green space located in an urban area that serves as a garden and a public space rather than a natural area. Most of our tree preservation areas are not maintained and kept in a natural state to regenerate and evolve without disturbance. This particular tree preservation area is impacted by the public, and the intent is continued use by the public.
 Staff agrees with the applicant and recommends approval for the modification to allow proposed trees to be removed and other improvements to be made along with the proposed mitigation. The modification will allow continued use of the space in the spirit and tradition of the design garden next to the Walton Art Center and urban area. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for council? Okay. What comments do we have in the public? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council.
 Adele? I made that we pass the resolution. OK. We have a motion. John? I second that motion. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? John, you have the floor. Excuse me. OK. You may have it back. All righty then. Thank you. Any final comments from the council? All right.
 Shall the resolution pass? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Leteran? Yes. Resolution passes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 A few announcements. Tyrone Rodgers of the Media Services Division passed away last night. Tyrone leaves behind two children, a 20-year-old son, Brandon, his 14-year-old daughter, Kalia,
 They are struggling a bit with planning and having the necessary funds to handle the burial arrangements for their father. There's been a fund, the Tyrone Rogers Memorial Fund has been set up at the Bank of Fayetteville to accept donations in an effort to help the family offset its funeral costs. The city, of course, wishes to extend our condolences to the family for their loss and a valuable member of our media services team.
 On some more uplifting notes, we will be celebrating the completion of our Town Branch Trail this Thursday at 2 p.m. in Great House Park. There will be a ribbon cutting. We'd love if members of the council could attend that opening. We also...
 have on Thursday 7 p.m. our Gully Park concert series continues and it's Dana Louise and the Glorious Birds. If you haven't heard them, the shows start music at 7 p.m. so come out to that event.
 On Friday, this was actually scheduled for last Friday but moved because of the water temperature of the swimming pool, but this Friday is our first dive-in movie sponsored by the Fayetteville Firefighters Association in Wilson Park. It's the dive-in movie. The movie is Tangled is the name of the movie. The gates open at 715 and the movie begins at sunset.
 June also celebrates National Adopt-a-Shelter Cat Month. Adoption fees are waived for adult cats. So if you are seeking a cat companion, there's no cost to adopt from the shelter for adult cats. There is a reduced fee or discounted fee to a $10 fee for the adoption of a kitten. So if you're looking for a feline pet, check out the shelter.
 All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.