i would like to call the city council meeting of june the first 2021 to order uh lisa would you please call the row here here here here present here here here here thank you lisa
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. Welcome everyone. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. City Council members, city staff, and the public participating in this meeting virtually and in person.
 public comments should be allowed for all members of the audience who signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. All right, let's go ahead and get started. The first order of business had tonight is Paul Becker's finance report.
 good evening mayor and council this report is through year to date through april which is period four of our 2021 fiscal year as i reported to you at the agenda session last week city sales tax was up an amazing 34 percent for the month of march again that was comparing against last year at the beginning of the coronavirus
 Retail sales were up very strong, as were internet sales. But that gives us approximately, we're up 14% compared to budget through April. Franchise fees, they're up a little bit, about 4%. Beverage taxes are up a little bit. They're up about 6%. Building permits are down 20%.
 Charges for services are down 2%, and court fees and fines were down about 15%. Building permits are starting to show a little more activity at this point in time, but they're still down.
 all in all the general fund is up 15 compared to budget now uh if we remember and we go back to when the budget was set at that point in time i thought our revenues would in fact be down and i pulled them back a little bit for this year when i um when i constructed the budget and presented it to you so we're doing very well compared to budget
 we're up uh as i said roughly 15 percent this point in time remember we had two salary increase packages uh brought forward by the mayor approved by the council so we're looking at uh two and a half million dollars added to the operating budget but because of this 15 percent increase at this point in time we're looking very good about meeting revenues
 and equaling operations by the end of the year. And of course, that is our goal, to make sure operating revenue equals operating expenses. So I'm very pleased with where we are right now.
 Street funds up roughly 11% above budget. That's basically driven by state turnbacks. They turn back for motor fuel tax. They turn back also for the quarter cent sales tax to assist on roads.
 So again, the street fund, that's showing a pretty strong revenue increase at this point in time. The parking fund is down. It's collecting about 83% of revenue. So it's down about 17% compared to budget. However, the good news of that is we pulled back on some of the personnel costs associated with parking because we didn't need them as much to enforce it.
 Because of the reduced use of parking in the downtown district and entertainment district So we're actually where we want to be and revenues are exceeding Operational expenditures at this point in time that will change The expenditures will change and increase as we move forward, but we're seeing a little more activity especially down in the entertainment sixth section as of now and
 The next fund we're going to look at is HMR. That's the HMR tax for parks development. That was up almost 20% compared to the budget.
 it was up 59 compared to last year for the month of uh for the month of march now that's a little distortive because that also represents past due collections but we're up just about 30 percent uh for the month of march or month of april excuse me compared to last year
 So the parks development fund is showing pretty good revenue at this point in time also. Water and sewer is up. Billings are up about 7% for the month, driven by water usage. Looked into it a bit, and that's primarily because of the increase that we have
 of 3% activated in January. And we also have an increase of about 3% in the customer base. So that's driving those billings upward. There's about $1.4 million, however, outstanding in delinquency at this point in time. Roughly half of that, over $700,000, is over 90 days.
 As we are closing with the coronavirus and the governor's mandates, we are in the process of starting to reapply penalties, as we discussed before. We're also going to begin cutoffs. We are notifying customers, giving their advance notice. We're also working with them to work out a payment plan. Remember, there are some.
 funds available to help people in dire straits. So we are working with all of our customers to see that they're not cut off for the lack of funds without providing them some alternative. Trash and collections, excuse me, recycling and trash collection, revenue is down about 2%. It's the same story as has been going on business
 Usage is down a bit, toll charges are down, short-term leases of disposal units are down, however residential usage is in fact up. As far as the airport,
 aviation gas is up 14 so that's pretty pretty strong increase remember it's been down substantially last year so this is showing more activity out at the airport there's good news for us there so total revenues up 116 000 at the airport with that that is my monthly report and i will be more than happy to answer any questions what questions do we have from the council on this
 Okay, this brings us to our next item under agenda additions, bringing forward a
 ordinance that Kit Drew up and and to get us kind of up to speed with everything. We had several meetings with the City Health Board I know that dr. Sharkey is here tonight and dr. Garner is here tonight to answer any questions that you might have and we have an ordinance that we passed last year and the Board of Health met after the CDC new directives came out and
 and they made recommendations to the city council, which Kip put together. Since I'm the only elected official on the board, I brought it forward to you all tonight to consider. Now, there's three things that we can do here with the present ordinance that we have in place. This is the old ordinance from last year. One, you can keep it. Two, you can repeal it. Or three, you can modify it.
 And what Kit put together was the directives from the Board of Health incorporated into the ordinance, which I think is pretty sound. And so I know that the first thing that we have to do, we have to add this to the agenda. And so I need a motion to second just to add this to the agenda and then we'll discuss whatever you all want to do. Move to add to the agenda. Second. Thank you all. We have a motion to second to add to the agenda. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Yes, yes, yes Yes Yes Yes Yes, okay. Would you like to read that for us? Yes? I'll read the ordinance and a minute and ordinance to amend ordinance number 6323 pursuant to the new recommendations of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the City Board of Health and
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville followed the recommendations of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention to establish its local regulation of face masks in public places of public accommodation for Fayetteville businesses when it enacted Ordinance 6323,
 And whereas on May 13th, 2021, the CDC made substantial changes in its recommendations for wearing face masks and stated, quote, if you are fully vaccinated, you can resume activities that you did before the pandemic, unquote. And whereas the CDC further stated, quote, fully vaccinated people can resume activities without wearing a mask or physically distancing, unquote.
 And whereas the CDC continued his recommendations for mask wearing and physical distancing for all not fully vaccinated persons, for all indoor places of public accommodation and most outdoor gatherings. And whereas the Fayetteville Board of Health passed the attached recommendations to the city council, including number two,
 Those persons that are fully vaccinated should no longer be required to wear masks within the city of Fayetteville, with the following exceptions in health care settings, on mass transit, in prisons and jails and in homeless shelters, unquote. And whereas Governor Hutchinson confirmed on Thursday, May 20th, that he would not extend his pandemic emergency declaration, which requires reconsideration of your mask mandate ordinance pursuant to its fifth section.
 Now, therefore, be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby joins with the City Board of Health and continues its recommendation that all residents should be vaccinated as soon as possible.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends Ordinance 6323 passed unanimously by the Fayetteville City Council on June 16, 2020 by first amending Section 1's initial introductory language requiring all persons to constantly wear face masks to the following, quote, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines that the health and safety of Fayetteville residents
 require that all persons should be required to continue to wear a face mask in healthcare settings, on mass transit, and in homeless shelters, and that all not fully vaccinated persons within public service areas and all places of public accommodation are required to constantly wear face masks covering the nostrils and mouth of such unvaccinated persons subject to the following exceptions
 The remaining subsections A, B, C, and D remain effective and unchanged, and new subsection E shall be added as follows. Children of less than two years of age shall not be required to wear face masks. Section 3, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby amends Section 2 of Ordinance 6323 by adding, quote, not fully vaccinated, unquote, in front of, quote, employees, customers, and visitors.
 Section 4, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 3 of Ordinance 6323 by adding to the last clause prior to, quote, members of the public the following, not fully vaccinated, unquote. Section 5, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 5 of Ordinance 6323 by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a new Section 5 as follows. Section 5, sunset. Sunset.
 Because the legislature enacted laws which become effective on July 28th, 2021, prohibiting cities from protecting their citizens, residents, and visitors by mask or vaccination mandates, this ordinance and Ordinance 6323 shall become ineffective, unenforceable, and inoperable on July 28th, 2021. And Section 6 is the Emergency Clause.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because of the CDC's and the City Board of Health's recommendations that unvaccinated persons still need to wear a mask in most outdoor, indoor areas, while fully vaccinated people do not need to wear face masks. This amending ordinance is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 Therefore, the City Council declares that an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Mayor, we certainly discussed this with the City Council considerably during the agenda session, so I will answer any questions, but I don't have any presentation. Okay. Is Dr. Sharkey in the audience?
 Yes, would you like to come up and talk about the Board of Health meetings and some of the things that we've been discussing the last few weeks? And then be available to answer whatever questions the council might have or I believe Dr. Garner may be here as well somewhere. But please. Yes.
 Yes, so the Board of Health met very quickly after the CDC changed their guidelines and reviewed the science behind the changes and felt that they were indeed justified and therefore made our recommendations to the City Council based on the science. We bring these to you
 One, really wanting to emphasize that we want to continue to strongly recommend vaccinations for all of our citizens just as soon as we can and really emphasize that point. And two, we acknowledge that it's not going to be feasible to know who's vaccinated, who's not and as we've seen across our city, county and world, we're just going to rely on each other to get through this and this can be the honor system.
 as far as you know vaccine versus unvaccinated but i feel confident that at the moment as our cases are going down that this is the right way to move forward um we have seen very low hospitalization rates of three to five um locally in our hospitals we've had
 five deaths in the month of May, which is five too many, but way down. And for the first time in over a year, we had zero cases reported in Washington County a few days ago. The last time that happened was May 11th of 2020. So what questions do we have for Dr. Sharkey? I have a question, Mayor. Sure.
 Dr. Saraki, are you seeing anything different or non-representative in Fayetteville compared to the rest of the country? I mean, are we pretty much having the same trends as the rest of the country, or are we different in some way? We're very similar to the rest of the country.
 Our peak was a little higher and we came down a little faster than the rest of the country through the winter months. We have been stable in our counts for six weeks and then in the past two to three weeks really have broken down and gotten lower every day, every week. Our 14-day average of new cases is now down to about nine. It was 18 two weeks ago. So we're really making good progress.
 Excellent. I'm so glad to hear that. Do you have any special concerns about Fayetteville going forward as compared to the rest of the country or really the CDC guidelines or where it's at? And we should strictly be following that, that there's nothing different about Fayetteville than that makes us need to be more concerned or less concerned.
 Not at the moment. I would say the one unique thing about Fayetteville and what we saw last fall was when we had an influx of students come and we saw our cases rise acutely. That would be the next time that I would be kind of watching something unique in Fayetteville is when classes resume in the fall. Thank you so much. What other questions do we have? What can we do as a city to encourage vaccinations?
 That's the question of the hour, isn't it, right now? Really it's all about education. There's a lot of, we've seen the Vax-a-Millions and different incentives that people have tried and we see a little bump with those but then it's not sustained. It's really education, education, education and overcoming.
 So much of what is going on in social media, that's proving to be very difficult. However, we are seeing, you know, we're still vaccinated actively and daily in the city and across the area. So I have felt very good about our vaccination rates as they have continued. You know, we haven't dropped down to zero by any stretch. We're still actively vaccinating. So how are we compared to the rest of the region, the state?
 We're very similar. I have asked and asked and asked ADH for local data. I've not been able to get it. I've only gotten county level data. I would love to prove my gut right that shows that Fayetteville is doing much better than the surrounding areas but I don't have any data to back that up. Any other questions? Council? Okay. I guess we will take public comment then.
 thank you Dr shark very much um everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic this is about the addressing the mask ordinance no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first
 Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, we will go ahead and hear from them first tonight, and everybody remain six feet apart, and then we will get input from the people that are on Zoom. So please remove your mask only when speaking. So who would like to address us first tonight? Okay.
 Mr. Roberts. Hello. My name is Jeremy Roberts. I'm a citizen here in Fayetteville. I am disabled. I suffer from a serious form of complex PTSD and I'm on the autistic spectrum. I have been hurt very bad this year. In fact, today I got hurt again by the police department while I was trying to print things off at the library.
 I have tried to make the city aware of the exemption set out by the state of Arkansas, which is precedent for any and all exemptions or accommodations to be given. One of the major problems that I've had is that the city is complicit and negligent in letting the businesses know that the state provided an exemption for disabled people, and I have been getting hurt right and left by people for being ignorant.
 uh if they're kind and express that they're afraid i try to leave their business because i don't want someone to feel like i have um but the city absolutely is responsible to let the businesses know change your signs from no one is allowed without a mask to accept disabled people but that doesn't address the constitutionality of the situation the united states constitution and the arkansas constitution give me the right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness that has been
 ripped away from me. I have presented you guys with the Arkansas codes for the Civil Rights Act of 1993. I provided you with the US Code section, Title 18, section 242 that makes these things criminal.
 I also want to address the city council and to an investigation into Matthew Petty's ethics violations and possibly mental capability of running, of being in office. I've given you copies of things that he's given me and I won't exactly quote him because he cussed at me, but I called him after getting hurt one day and told him that I'm having a problem wearing masks, I'm disabled. Before I could get it out of my mouth, he told me, well, you're disabled.
 S-word, out of luck if you think I'm going to help you not wear a mask in this town. I gave you a copy where he made fun of it on Facebook. That's an ethics violation. He also says that cities should be for everyone, but I guess not a disabled man. He's also...
 slandered a woman on his Facebook blatantly calling someone running for office a racist, then slander is a crime. I think that an ethics investigation needs to be done on Matthew Petty. I beg and I have begged in emails of the city to please make businesses aware that there are exemptions
 not accommodation. The accommodation set forth is exemption. There is no other. I've had a lady ask me to go outside and she'll bring me shoes to wear. Sir, if I was a black man, the NAACP would be all over that. You cannot discriminate that way. It is discrimination against a disabled person to ask me to leave when you're a public, you're a private business open to the public. I have the right to those services provided
 I'm losing my speech because I've got a lot of adrenaline right now. But it can't be done. Discriminating against a disabled person is unlawful, and it needs to stop immediately. I do not want to get hurt again. I get pushed to the point where my adrenaline and my stuff is so high, I start having flashes of how to get out of my body, and I feel the things that I see, and it is so hard to deal with. In fact, today, after the altercation I had in the library trying to print these things off to bring to you guys,
 I called your office and expressed I'm having the suicidal things now. I don't kill myself because God works with me and I am a man of God and I just can't get away with it, right? But I suffer greatly from it and I should never be put in that position. I demand that the city council follow the constitution of the state of Arkansas and the constitution of the United States of America and allow us our liberties. I think that's about all I've got.
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Rob. Does that sound clear? Thank you very much. All right. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, I would like to comment on Mr. Rogers, his information that he gave us. I did watch the video of the library incident and
 I think that there could have been more sensitivity with the police officers that were handling this situation. You know, it's hard to know always what is going on, but I've talked with Mr. Rogers, and I'm very well aware of his disability, and he should be accommodated. So perhaps the...
 City would like to review that tape sometime and offer some sensitivity training for mental health issues that someone may be having. Mr. Rogers was obviously in the midst of a PTSD situation, and it was escalated rather than de-escalated in that situation from the point of view that I saw on the tape.
 So Mr. Rogers, I'm very sorry that you had to endure that and I'm empathetic. Mental health is certainly as equally as important as physical health and I recognize that you do have that disability and you should be a comment. Okay, thank you. What are the comments do we have from the public? Who do we have on Zoom Susan? We have no hands raised at the moment on Zoom. Okay.
 All right, I will be bringing it back to the council then. Okay, council, you have before you this ordinance, and you can do as you wish here. You can agree with all of it, put amendments on it. I just, I actually probably need some direction from you all on where you want to go, because this was an ordinance, the original ordinance, sponsored by Council Member Petty, passionate and sincere about his council, and I did not feel...
 I wanted to bring it back to you all before, instead of walking something on the agenda session or something like that. So here it is before you. And so what's the wishes of the council? What discussion do you wanna have?
 I'd like to have a discussion unless you were getting ready to go. Go ahead. Okay. You know, I talked to a lot of, maybe I can take this off, I talked to a lot of residents this week and medical professionals and business owners.
 I really feel by requiring the mask, that we are continuing to require the mask, that we are putting businesses in a really difficult situation.
 Because they end up enforcing our regulation they may want to not require mask in their business But yet that the city continues with this ordinance. That's exactly what we're requiring them to do so I Actually thought quite a bit about what councilmember Hertzberg said last week about making a recommendation rather than a requirement And I would like to move to amend section 2
 It's the second paragraph and instead of saying, and that all not fully vaccinated persons within public service areas and all places of public accommodation
 are required, I'd like to change that to recommend to constantly wear a face mask covering the nostrils and mouth of such unvaccinated person subject to the following exemptions so that we would recommend rather than require because as Dr. Sharkey said, we're kind of on the honor system here.
 There's no national card that says we've been vaccinated. There's no national policy. Our best guidance is with the CDC. And I've always mentioned to my constituents when people asked if I would be following the CDC guidelines or something else, and I said, yes, I would be supporting CDC guidance unless there was something unusual or different about Fayetteville. So that's my motion to respond.
 recommend rather than require I'll second that to change the wording in section 2 from required to recommend is that correct Teresa that's correct mayor okay what discussion do we have on this
 I would just like to thank Councilmember Turk for your comments. I completely agree with you. I think that this would be really good to show that we definitely do agree with the CDC recommendations, but we're not making it a requirement, which I believe is, you know, unenforceable. So I don't know that we should have an ordinance requiring that. I'm also okay with this change.
 basically we're almost on the honor system as is now. I mean, I go to places and some places have lots of masks, some places don't. I think it's imperative that we match what the CDC is doing. I've kind of mentioned this before. This isn't going to be the first major pandemic. We're an exponentially growing population on a finite planet. And these things may continue to happen. And I think,
 if we follow the CDC's when it's strict, but then when we don't follow it when it's not strict, it looks very inconsistent. And we need to be more consistent so that when we do need a ratchet down, hopefully,
 not anytime soon, you know, decades away, but whenever that is, that we've shown that we're following what they're recommending and we're following the science instead of just, you know, locking down for no reason. So I will be supporting this. Okay. I also support this. I think that if you understand the science behind the vaccination, that you do have some information that
 supports the efficacy. Now I do have to admit I was with SmithKline Biologicals, which is a vaccine division for 23 years, so I do come from that scientific background. What this offers is the opportunity for a citizen to take responsibility of their own decisions.
 When we passed that mask ordinance, we did not have the vaccine available, so we have to be proactive. Right now there is the choice so that you can be protected, and if you don't believe in the science behind it, then you have the choice to believe that also. So I think a recommendation rather than a requirement is certainly a good thing to add to this and supports the science behind it.
 Sure. Yeah, I think this is a pretty fair change to make because I believe that when we did pass our mask ordinance, I like to think that it helped quite a bit because it brought it to the forefront that people needed to be wearing a mask and we were really going to support that. And I'm hoping that this will continue to encourage people to get the vaccination.
 I also kind of suspect that the people who, you know, who are not wearing masks, that are not wearing them because of some disability, that they're just not going to wear them anyway. That it's the same people that may not be getting the vaccination. So, and it is an honor system and we just have to do the best we can. And I think maybe making this change
 takes a little bit of the the burden off of businesses to try to understand what they should be doing and I'm going to support it. Thank you. Okay. Would y'all do me a favor if you want to speak would you raise your hand? I'm used to everybody just kind of popping up on the screen. So now that we're all in here. I'm coming so So I've got a little bit of yes, I do have one question probably for kid or maybe even the police. I
 If a business wants to continue to enforce masks, so not the mask mandate, that they actually want their own business to require masks, is this ordinance still gonna protect them? Do we need to add support for them or do you feel that they already have that support? I think businesses have a right to require certain things to come inside, like no shoes, no shirt, no service. And they could also say no mask,
 no service if they want to do that so that's that's their inherent right as the owner of the business and the the landlord of the premises or whatever so that doesn't require I mean our ordinance doesn't affect that one way or the other at this point in time okay good I just I wanted that on the record and hopefully the media reports that as well so that the businesses that want to continue requiring masks feel that they're they're kind of backed up in that so thank you
 Yes, Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. In a way it feels to me like one word or the other is a little bit like splitting hairs at this point, both in terms of the number of cases that we're seeing on the day-to-day and where the trend line is going, but also in how we maybe think people are going to feel about it.
 That said, it's not an amendment I would support, although it doesn't change how strongly I feel about needing to eventually vote for whatever we have at the end of the night. I think back to the early days and how many people I heard say, oh, well, if the governor really wanted us to wear a mask, he'd require it instead of just recommend it. And then we required it and got, after a month or two of...
 People die in and other counties and cities taking it up. Finally the state did require it and what I heard Dr. Sharkey say was that our biggest problem right now is education and combating the lack of consistency on social media and To me I'm thinking about about that problem and wondering how much language really matters It's certainly the language on the signage. We have some businesses to put put their matters, but to me maybe this matters a lot
 um just a little bit and to me it's the difference between saying to somebody you should wear a mask if you're not vaccinated or well you should think about wearing a mask if you're not vaccinated and i think those are different messages and words matter so i won't support the amendment but of course we'll support what we end up with at the end yes sir um whatever we uh decide on tonight can we
 uh will we be getting out something to businesses on our website and so on that they can print and put in there we're working on some issues right hey hi yes in fact um lisa and thurber and the communications team have a sign ready to go depending on which way you all vote for the language the sign will be posted on our website as an example for how people can download and use that sign or modify it if they choose and does that include something along the lines that they
 it's the business's choice or this business decides to, you know, would require you to wear a mask or we'll make sure that option for them is clear. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. We have a few signs ready to go, but we wanted to be sure we had the wishes of the council right before I printed a whole bunch of signs off. We've been working on some signage. Anybody else? Okay. This is the amendment.
 So any final comments on the amendment or anything? Lisa, would you please call the roll? Tara? Yes. Joan? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Hunt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Perksford? Yes. Okay. Now we're back to the amended ordinance that you had before you. What other changes or suggestions do you see council?
 I'm raising my hand there, but I'm on the zoom. I think you can just go ahead and jump in anytime you want to. Again, we're talking about businesses making the choice of who they serve and requiring a mask.
 I do want to emphasize that there are people, either due to mental illness or physical illness, that cannot wear a mask. And I do think that the American for Disabilities Act probably covers this because it does say you have to accommodate these individuals. I'm not sure, I'm not an attorney, but I know from a point of view of managing a business that we always have to accommodate the disability. And I think that we need to be sure that that is included when we're talking about this.
 And it has been included since day one, the exception said reasonable accommodations may be made for individuals with disabling conditions that prevent wearing a face mask. So that's always been a part of the ordinance. Yes, I agree with that. And I like that. But if you saw the tape that I saw of Mr. Rogers in the library and just by happenstance, I was in the library this afternoon and it was discussed with some employees there.
 Obviously, people do not understand, especially in a public place like that, that they have to accommodate someone with a disability. I'm just saying we must get that education out there as well as the language of the rest of the ordinance. Okay. Do what, Susan? I was just communicating that we heard that and we will make sure that's part of the message as well.
 All right. What else do we have? This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What other discussion do we have? No? Okay. Yes. Then I will, if there's not any more discussion, I will suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Who was the second? Who did the second? Oh, Holly.
 No, I was late. Sierra? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Crosby? Yes. Hunt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirkford? Yes. And ordinance amend ordinance 6323 pursuant to the new recommendations of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the City Board of Health.
 and when we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second second okay we have a motion a second to go to the third and final reading at least would you please call the role yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance amend order 6323 pursuant to the new recommendations of the center for disease control and prevention and the city board of health
 Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Yes, Sonia.
 thank you mayor i have a one quick final comment um i just wanted to thank the city board of health for their advice and all their service through the through this and i just wanted to say as a scientist and trained microbiologist with the emphasis of immunology and virology on behalf of our very youngest residents and visitors who are too young to get vaccinated i would like to strongly encourage that those of you who are not vaccinated to please get fully vaccinated
 Okay. Any other final comments? Council? All right. Thank you, Council, Board of Health. Thank you. Thank you, Kip, for calling this up. Things are beginning to change a little bit and I'm really thankful for that. We've had a long pull this year, we really have, but we're just looking better. And so I want to thank everybody that's had anything to
 and sacrifice that you all have made over the last year. And I appreciate your service to this city. I really, really do. And the Board of Health as well. All right. So Lisa, would you please call the roll? Pira? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hattie? Yes. Fragan? Yes. Hunt? Yes. Kerf? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all now. We're on to the consumer. There's an emergency clause we vote on that So moved second, thank you all All right, Lisa. Would you please call the roll? Sarah yes Yes, yes Yes, yes But yes, yes Yes
 Okay, thank you all. Now for the consent. All right. Number one, approval of the May 18th, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a payment of $97,030 to the University of Arkansas for the construction of 725 linear foot section of the Chalagee Trail to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000 and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a four-year lease agreement with LFKDF LLC for four parking spaces in a public parking lot adjacent to 112 West Center Street for use by the Federal Public Defender's Office any amount of $50 per space per month.
 number four a resolution to approve the renewal of three special needs assistance program grant agreements with the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development in the total amount of 250 129 dollars for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents
 number five resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of sixteen thousand dollars representing a donation from friends of YRCC to fund summer camp programs offered at the Yvonne Richmond Community Center number six the resolution to approve change order number two to the wash facility equipment contract with whiting systems incorporated any amount of eight thousand three hundred eighteen dollars and sixteen cents
 Number seven, a resolution to approve change order number five with Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $694,110 for the construction of a restroom and pavilion structure for the Centennial Park project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $40,000 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 21-43 and to approve the purchase of two Ford Ranger trucks from Martin Clarity Ford of Little Rock in the total amount of $48,402. Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 21-40 and to approve the purchase of four Ford trucks from Lewis Automotive Group of Fayetteville in the total amount of $281,376. Number 10.
 10. A resolution to authorize the purchase of a Caterpillar excavator from Riggs Tractor Company for the total amount of $60,764.31 plus the implicated tax freight charges pursuant to a source of wealth co-opted purchasing contract.
 number 11 a resolution to approve the purchase of a foreign ram 1500 from lewis ford of federal in the total uh in the total of twenty two thousand four hundred and three dollars percent to state procurement contract used by the police department
 Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 21-31 and approve the purchase of four Harley-Davidson FLHTP motorcycles from Pig Trail Harley-Davidson of Rogers in a total amount of $104,676.96 for use by the police department. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 21-45 and authorize the purchase of two Kawasaki Mules from Freedom
 power sports of federal and the total amount of $22,414 for use by the Parks Department. Number 14, a resolution to approve the purchase of a mower from Straits Lawn and Garden in the amount of $6,939.87 pursuant to a source well co-opting purchasing contract for use by the Transportation Department and to approve the budget adjustment. Number 15, a resolution to approve
 The repair of fire apparatus ladder 3 by Bucker's truck and equipment of Lowell for the estimated amount of $40,223.97 and the authorized payment for the repair of any additional damage identified by the repair shop.
 Number 16, a resolution to award bid number 21-23 and authorize the purchase of plastic drain pipe from Ferguson Water Works in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2021. Number 17, a resolution to approve a one-year master services agreement and statement of work with Civic Plus LLC for service request management module in the amount of...
 nineteen thousand nine hundred and eighty seven dollars and fifty cents for the first year to approve an automatic renewals for additional one-year terms with an annual price increase of five percent and to approve an annual project contingency in the amount of two thousand dollars each year and the contract that contract is in effect number 18 a resolution to approve
 Amendment number one to the professional engineering services agreement with FT and associates LTD in the amount of one hundred and seven thousand seven hundred six dollars for further assessment of the lake federal spillway capacity and Recommended improvements is required by the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission number 19 a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins we're engineers incorporated and
 In the amount of not to exceed $466,000 for utility relocations along Highway 112. Number 20, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01, Selection 5. In the amount not to exceed $273,388.
 for professional services associated with utility relocations along highway 16 number 21 a resolution to award bid number 21-37 and to authorize a contract with crossman heaven contractors incorporated in the amount of 996 617 for the construction of an 18-inch sewer line
 near Gregg Avenue and Fulbright Expressway to approve Project Tendency in the amount of $99,661.70 and to approve budget adjustment. Number 22, a resolution to approve an addendum to the out-of-scope agreement with CH2M
 Hill Engineers Incorporated, in the amount, not to exceed $69,380 to complete the supervisory control and data acquisition upgrade project for the city's wastewater treatment facilities operations, lift station operations,
 water distribution system operations and to authorize the purchase of additional networking equipment from converge one incorporated in the amount of forty three thousand three hundred three dollars and forty two cents plus taxes prey charges pursuant to a resolution 110-17 and number 23 a resolution to express the wellness of the city of federal to apply for and utilize federal aid recreational trails program funds
 in the amount of $100,000 for improvements to Kessler Mountain natural surface trails and to approve a city match of $25,000 for the project. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sarah? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Kurt? Yes. Kurt? Yes. All right. Thank you all. I'm going to finish the business. We have one item, an ordinance to amend Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, Chapter 177, Landscape Regulations, and Chapter 151, Definitions of Unified Development Code to offer clarification, sufficiencies, and additional options to both...
 tree preservation and landscaping codes this item was left on the first reading at the last city council meeting i will entertain a motion to go to the second week so moved second we have a motion a second to go to the second reading lisa would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to amend Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, Chapter 177, Landscape Regulations, and Chapter 151, Definitions of the Unified Development Code, to offer clarification, efficiencies, and additional options to both tree preservation and landscaping codes. Jonathan? May I believe Melissa will present. Okay. That's correct. Yes. Yes. Thank you. I'm going to share my screen. Okay.
 If I can remember how to do that. I'm so sorry, bear with me. Let me see. Let me try that again. Can you all see my screen? Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay, great. Thank you.
 good evening mayor and city council i'm melissa evans one of the urban foresters from the city of bayville urban forestry staff has proposed code changes to chapter 167 tree preservation and protection in chapter 177 landscape regulations i presented those for approval at the last city council meeting there are no changes to the proposal however i do have verifications
 It was apparent that the City Council was not clear on the differences between the Planning Commission and staff's recommendations. In a nutshell, the Planning Commission's recommendation is represented by exhibits A through G. Staff is in agreement except in two instances, which are shown in exhibits A1 and C1.
 In A1, Tree Preservation Priorities, we removed dead trees from the low priority category. Half of Plain Commission wanted dead trees to be included in the low priority category and their amendment to vote for this change failed. Staff does not think dead trees should be included in any category and has removed the word from the language for low priority trees.
 Some planning commissioners were concerned that someone would purposely cut down a tree so as not to mitigate for it. Staff reviews aerial imagery from the past five years when looking at development plans. If trees have been removed under the minimum required percentage for the zoning, a penalty is in place for the encode to mitigate for that.
 And then in C1, commercial tree pruner or service, certificate and insurance required, we updated the Aboriculture and Tree Care Industry Qualifying Credentials for Tree Work in Fayetteville. This was per Jeremy Williams' request during the Planning Commission meeting.
 It includes additional information about the International Society of Arboriculture, or ISA, categories of certified arborists and tree workers, and better wording for the Tree Care Industry Association's accreditation.
 we've had some comments from the public which i will address the general public has had chances to be informed and make comments regarding this at various public meetings including a general public meeting at the library regarding urban forestry code changes a few years ago monthly urban forestry advisory board meetings the planning commission meetings and of course the city council meeting that we had two weeks ago and tonight
 One of the comments was that work needs to be done to inform the public about hiring qualified professionals to perform their tree care, and we do agree with that. There was also a question about mitigation alternatives, the green roofs and green facades option. Green roofs and green facades are restricted to downtown areas and sites with 50% or more impervious area.
 This is next to the last option, planting trees on very tight sites. The last option of the tree preservation principles in code is tree escrow, which means it will be a longer time before trees get planted in the ground, as we have seven years to use those funds.
 Other comments were dangerous trees. And dangerous trees are the equivalent of unhealthy trees as listed in Exhibit A1. So we have included those in the low priority category. Invasive species are also low priority because they do provide some environmental services such as producing oxygen, mitigating stormwater, and preventing soil erosion.
 The tree size requirements and the high priority versus low priority levels are what staff and the Urban Forestry Advisory Board think is best and reasonable. Trees that are 8 inch DBH and 10 to 15 years old are starting to provide environmental services and become well established.
 Tree preservation easements are for preserved existing trees, not for areas of mitigated or newly planted trees. Tree preservation easements are only required for large-scale development projects and commercial subdivisions.
 Many times developers do not preserve the minimum existing tree canopy required and add the mitigation option to meet code. Thus, the tree preservation easements are needed to be as much of the preserved areas of the existing trees as possible. The highest percentage for the minimum existing tree canopy is 30% for residential zones in the HHOD area.
 In my three years here, I have seen just a handful of projects that meet the full minimum preservation requirement. Often we are lucky if they preserve half of that and they mitigate the rest, and that is all in line with code. Tree preservation easements can be maintained with urban forestry staff's approval and do not have to receive city council's approval. If an owner wants to change the tree preservation easement or vacate it, however, that does require city council approval.
 uh the city council also had some questions and comments at the last meeting which i'll address city staff is addressing our tree canopy loss and looking at an aggressive tree planting campaign a question was also asked about street tree plantings and whether they could be done off-site in our tree preservation and protection code there's currently an off an option for off-site planting if preservation and on-site planting cannot be achieved
 It is certainly something the urban forestry staff would consider and work with applicants on. As far as lot splits go, urban forestry does not currently have a review on them. Even though they are in the HHOB area, we try to work with the planners to provide comments to the applicants about tree preservation requirements so they are aware.
 Single-family homes and duplexes are exempt from the Tree Preservation Code requirements unless they are in a new proposed residential subdivision which undergoes urban forestry review. New single-family homes and duplexes that are not in a new subdivision are being considered in another presentation that you will hear tonight from Alan Pugh about the stormwater regulations. Tree preservation and planting is an option to meet those regulation requirements.
 In summary, we are proposing six changes to the tree preservation and landscape regulation portions of our code. We have met with a group of developers, landscape architects, and engineers about these changes for their input. We have also taken public comment and are addressing it as best we can. We have worked with the City's Urban Forestry Advisory Board on these changes and have their support.
 Staff has learned that balance is key. We have people who want more trees planted and we have people who do not want trees in their yards at all. Overall, surveys have shown that citizens of Fayetteville care about and want trees. These changes are an update for now, but not the end. These portions of code should be reviewed every five years or so for streamlining and updates as needed and appropriate.
 Thank you for your time this evening. Please let me know if you have any questions. And also our other urban forester, John Scott, is on this meeting so he can help too. Okay. What questions do we have in the council for staff?
 Yes. Yeah, a quick question. Just kind of reviewing back through some emails, it was brought up that there was a difference between some species that might be smaller versus some bigger ones. Did we, do you know if we addressed that? I was looking back through your notes. I don't know if we got to that or was that considered or where was that conversation, the various sizes of different species?
 Yes, so I think you mean about the high priority trees and low priority trees. And we have listed that anything that's eight inches or above for a large species tree would be considered high priority unless it's an invasive tree. And that smaller sizes would be low priority trees. And there was a suggestion, I think also from Jeremy Williams, that we consider 12 inch instead of eight inch for those trees.
 in the high priority category. And we have discussed this and thought about it, and we still think that eight inches is best. Those trees are 10 to 15 years old, and they're starting to provide environmental services. If we drop them to the low priority category and those trees are removed, that's just that many fewer trees that have to be mitigated to make up for what's lost. So staff feels it's best to keep the tree measurements as they are.
 okay thank you so i guess what we're talking about is kind of a compromise instead of going to 12 or four and look at eight for everything sort of um we originally had it at eight and jeremy williams that our master certified arborist who works with his own company in the city has suggested 12 inches and i think this is um
 You know, we look at it from our city urban forestry staff eyes and, you know, development reviews and trying to get more trees planted in the city. And, you know, Jeremy knows far more about the health of trees than I do. And he works on them every day. But we're just trying to find that balance of, you know, what we're removing and what we're replacing, what's being mitigated. And so we staff fields at eight inches.
 John, do you have anything to add to that? Yeah, we have three categories of trees. We have large, medium, and small. And the large and medium trees, we want them eight inches or above on their diameter at breast height. And then for the smaller trees, like your under stories, like a dog would, it needs to be about four inches DBH and higher for them to be considered high priority.
 Okay, yeah thanks for that. Then I have one more follow-up question on the height. I feel like maybe there's a lot of variation there. Do you feel, is there a reason that it's kind of vague? It's like instead of just saying four feet high? I'm not sure which part you're talking about or what that is for the four feet high. Where it's also about the height of the trees should be breast height.
 Oh, that is a standard industry measurement to determine the trunk size, and that's for trunk diameter. And so it's measured roughly four feet off the ground. Four feet, okay. Yeah. And the industry understands four feet. Yes. When tree care professionals hear DBH, they know that means diameter at breast height, which is generally four feet off the ground. Okay, great. Thank you. Just to make that measurement. Yeah. Thank you.
 what other questions do we have in the council yes tracy uh thank you melissa for your presentation tonight and two weeks ago um you know i also received um the email from mr williams about
 how oftentimes the city when they bid out a project is not, they're doing a low bid. And sometimes these companies do not meet the criteria that's being proposed before us tonight. And I wondered if you could comment on that because it seems like if we have standards, the city should be following those standards.
 Absolutely, and John may be able to help me out with this as he dealt with this just in the past recent years. And I think this is again just, you know, staff education, different departments who are trying to get work done, not understanding that this is in code.
 and going about their business as they usually would. And so this came up on, I can't remember what job or project it was, but I know John had some conversations with those staff members and got it sorted out. But it is, so it's something that everybody needs to be educated. It's certainly our public.
 developers, engineers, and our own staff, and I mean staff outside of the Parks Department or the Development Services Building.
 And it's a difficult thing to do, not to educate, but to patrol and police all this. And we do the best we can. And we sure appreciate the calls, you know, that we've gotten from Mr. Williams and citizens over the years, just letting us be in the eyes and ears and letting us know what's going on out there so we can correct those things. John, do you have anything to add? Yeah.
 Yeah, it was an incident a couple of years ago or maybe not a year and a half ago and we corrected it and it was a department that wasn't aware that they needed to hire a certified arborist to do tree work and there's been memos and that correction has happened and education has happened with all city staff.
 I just have a follow-up question to that. Do you have procedures in place now that whenever you bid out these contracts that you all are notified so that you can review the certification or qualification of the people that are proposing to do the work? I just want to make sure that there is a procedure that's in place now since that happened a couple of years ago.
 it's left up to individual department heads to make sure that they are in compliance with that particular code i do review most of what engineer provides and transportation does most of their own planting it's when there's outside departments that aren't in those that you know they have to monitor what they're doing but we don't get notified when they're doing the project okay thank you yes deandre uh is it possible that um
 we could consider a phased approach. I'm looking at an email from Mr. Williams, and the concern is instead of going 100% in one shot, going with 25 to 50% of preserved as easement would be a much more manageable test. This would also reduce the blowback and the risk of the state legislature banning tree preservation ordinances altogether.
 Arkansas Senate Bill 634 was introduced this past session in an attempt to outlaw all ordinances. Yes, Sir, that and and that Senate bill.
 I think you know goes after the ordinance as a whole and just that we require any tree preservation much less the easements the easements are part of our ordinance but I don't know that that's triggering um or is what triggered that bill I think it's more just the general idea that we require anybody to preserve any trees whether they go in an easement or not um over the years there
 that there hasn't you know most people will dedicate all of their tree preservation um area as easement if it's required on the project and it's not required for all projects again if they are required and that 30 percent i mentioned for hhod minimum site um tree camping preservation area is high i mean most of them for commercial areas are 10 to 15 for most residential zones it's 20 or 25 percent
 Today I was reviewing projects and most out of nine projects, I think only two are meeting their full minimum percentage requirements. The rest are under and less than half under. So I'm talking if they're required to have 15% and they've only got 8% tree canopy on site, they're preserving 4%.
 So, it's already such a low number that would go into an easement. I really don't think this is an issue or concern. And we do have a lot of tree loss every year and the easements are one way to preserve our tree canopy.
 because we lose a significant amount every year, even though we require preservation and we require additional planting. So that's one that staff wants to hold firm on, that it's not gonna be 30% of a site that has to go into tree preservation easement. And we'll certainly work with people. I tell people, if you foresee needing to use this area in the future, don't put it in the easement because you'll have to go to city council
 and have it amended, so think carefully before you do it. You know, we try to be reasonable and help people think about those things so six months later they don't have to come back and make changes that are difficult to do. I hope that answers your question.
 There's also, this is also incremental for us as well because we do have a lot more changes we'd like to bring forth eventually. So this is just like step one for these. And then there was a maintenance issue when it came to tree preservation.
 that was brought up in that same memo and it's incorrect. We allow people to do maintenance. They just have to call us and give us a heads up on what they're doing and maybe a little bit of a plan on what they're doing. And we work with them on that. We have a retirement village that has a tree preservation in the middle of their site and they're going to allow their seniors to walk around in there. So they're gonna wanna maintain it for visibility and we're very okay with that.
 Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. No one engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, federal residence first. Press star nine on your phone, erase hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, people begin to line up.
 outside the chambers and can stay six feet apart. Is that the old rule, or do we still have to keep social distancing now that the council has passed the new? Well, let us just keep it in there for this evening anyway. All right. I will take Zoom comments first so people will have time to line up. Please remove your mask only when speaking tonight. Okay, who we got on Zoom? Jeremy Williams. Go ahead. Jeremy?
 can you hear me yes all right jeremy williams 1144 is pump station road um i appreciate melissa's comments and clarification especially after last meeting where a lot of the topics that i had discussed that detail with john scott didn't seem to have been incorporated wasn't sure exactly on that so thank you for clarifying that melissa
 Just wanted to reiterate that I am not proposing making development easier or anything like that. I just wanted to be smarter trying to avoid pitfalls in the future. Just listening to the discussion about the tree size, I still feel 12 inches be the most applicable. You know, I'm thinking as reading the code exactly as it's proposed,
 We could maybe do a compromise between the two with since we have small, medium and large trees, four inch for the small trees, eight inch for the medium, 12 inch for the fast growing trees. That would be something that would be kind of a middle ground potentially. That's I think everything else explained in my email. Thank you very much. If you have any other questions, be glad to answer them. Thank you.
 Okay, who else would like to address this? Will Dockery. Go ahead. Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. I hope that we go ahead and pass this tonight. I just want to reiterate that this is the work of over three years. It's been done by builders, developers, citizens, and your Urban Forestry Advisory Board.
 It is an incremental approach to this, and I'd like to point out that there have been compromises given on both sides of this. So it's not just something that it's a bunch of tree huggers all decided. It's not something that a bunch of developers wanted. It's something that it's a good thing. But once again, it is incremental. There's other things that we need to do. We need to start thinking. And we already have thought about a serious...
 tree planting approach, but we need to be thinking like a million trees planted in Fayetteville over the next decade kind of thing. Like we need to be thinking big and this is just one part of that and so I hope that you pass it tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, what public comment do we have for people that are present in the chambers or outside the chamber? Anyone? I don't have any signups. Okay.
 All right, I will bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion or actions does the council want to do? Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to ask Mr. Dockery if he's still on the line, which proposal he would support, the one passed by the Planning Commission or the one that staff is advocating, if he's still available. Go ahead, Will. Thank you.
 i'd be okay with either one i think it's important that we take this step now though um i think staffs is the better one though if you had to make me choose between the two and so what shall we do yes um i actually kind of want to talk about something that's similar but not exactly this um when
 parts of the city and kind of which parts of the city has trees and which one doesn't, obviously East Fayetteville has the most trees. And I think one of the reasons they have the most trees is two, one the developers are
 They were building like one house at a time and they weren't basically terraforming and then putting out roads and then building houses so they actually left some of the trees. But more importantly people didn't mow their yards quite as much.
 So a lot of the trees that are in East Fayetteville are accidental trees. You know, you didn't mow your yard for a couple weeks and then this tree kind of came up really quickly and you're like, crap, I've got to take care of that. And then two months later you're like, well, it's too big. And then you have a tree.
 But I think what's happening a lot in the newer subdivisions is our grass ordinances are causing people to kind of snitch on their neighbors and tell them to go, hey, you gotta go mow your yard. And then the trees get mowed down before they ever actually get big enough. So I think that we gotta work on that as much as all this codifying of code as we,
 trees need to happen accidentally and and we we've actually from what i see gone out of our way to make that stop happening so hopefully we continue that part of the conversation as well now as far as what's actually in front of us i'm in support of it whether it's what the staff did or what planning commission ultimately proposed
 I do understand the fear of preemption of, you know, we need to pare down what we do before the state kind of takes it away. But hopefully we've got 18, 20 months before that's an issue and maybe get something on the books and maybe they'll forget about it before it gets around again. So I'm ready to move forward on it.
 Thank you, Mayor. I move we amend the ordinance of a version with A1 and C1 in replacement of regular A and regular C. Second. Okay. Any discussion on the amendment? I just want to clarify the motion that Councilmember Petty made. Was that the staff recommendation or was that the Planning Commission recommendation? Well, the motion is to amend the staff recommendation. Okay.
 You made the motion. Did we get a second on that? I believe I seconded. If I didn't, I'll second it again. Okay. Thank you. What discussion do we have on that? Anything? Everybody good? All right. Police at which police call the roll? Terra? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Froggins? Yes. Hunt? Yes. Kirk?
 Okay, now we have the amendment mended ordinance before you we're on the second reading. This is an order So what would be the discussion or actions? But we suspend the roles and go to the third reading of the message of discussion Okay, we have a motion saying go third and final reading. I
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Harris? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Croghan? Yes. Bunce? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erskine? Yes.
 an ordinance amend chapter 167 tree preservation and protection chapter 177 landscape regulations and chapter 151 definitions of the unified development code to offer clarification efficiencies and additional options to both tree preservation and landscaping codes okay what final comments do we have in the council anything
 Yes, Sonia. No, you have nothing. I'll say something really fast. Okay. I totally agree. I think just with our, in light of the climate change, we need to, as Mayor said, we need to do a lot more. This is a good first step. Yes, we do have to do a lot more. I totally agree with the planting of trees. I think we certainly need to step, we're working on that. But you know what? This may not be absolutely perfect, folks, but I'll tell you,
 it's a good first step and uh i'm i'm glad we're taking that first step so here we go yes teresa i just want to follow up on that and and really advocate for staff bringing back new provisions for us to examine in a very very timely manner because this is long overdue and as um it's been at least three years in the making for this so i i hope maybe within the next six months we could see something back here thank you
 Anything else Lisa, which police call the road here? Yes, John yes, and yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, okay. Thank you all moving along to new business number one a Resolution for the city of February recognized and observed Juneteenth as an official holiday DeAndre good evening Let me remove this
 a resolution for the city of fayetteville to recognize and observe june 10th as an official holiday mayor jordan do you want me to read the resolution or not unless you wish to okay
 Okay, yes, I can. Whereas on September 22, 1862, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation declaring that all enslaved persons in the Confederate States of America were freed, and whereas on June 19, 1865, Major General Gordon Granger arrived in Galveston, Texas to take command of his federal troops
 to announce General Order No. 3, freeing all former slaves, and to enforce the emancipation of all enslaved persons in Texas, estimated to be about 250,000. And whereas General Granger read General Order No. 3 at several locations in Galveston, ending at what was known as the Negro Church on Broadway, where he told the congregation, the people of Texas are informed that in accordance with the
 the proclamation from the executive of the United States, all slaves are free. This involves an absolute equality of personal rights and rights of property between former masters and slaves. And whereas June 19 began to be celebrated in Texas as Juneteenth the next year, spread throughout the United States for the next century and a half, and has become one of the most recognized and honored celebrations of freedom in the United States, and whereas
 Arkansas and 46 other states recognized and honored Juneteenth and whereas in 1997 the United States Congress also recognized Juneteenth as the Independence Day observance of Americans
 of African descent and whereas Juneteenth has also been celebrated as Freedom Day, Jubilee Day, Liberation Day, and Emancipation Day and represents the completion of the cycle of freedom along with America's Independence Day celebrations and whereas Americans of all colors, creeds,
 cultures, religions, and countries of origin share a common love of and respect for freedom as well as the determination to protect their freedom through democratic institutions. And whereas it is proper and appropriate for the city of Fayetteville to recognize and
 Juneteenth as an honored holiday because until all are free, none are free. And whereas many organizations support the City of Fayetteville's recognition and observance of Juneteenth as a holiday, including Mayor Jordan's African American Advisory Council, Northwest Arkansas Martin Luther King Council, University of Arkansas Black Alumni Society, University of Arkansas Black Employee Group, Northwest Arkansas NAACP, Delta Sigma Theta
 Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated, the Historic St. James Baptist Church, Fellowship of Champions Church, the Black Action Collective, PHC, PH Hill City Masonic Lodge, number 347, and the University of Arkansas and the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority have also
 plan to their support whereas Washington County Quorum Court member Chandra Washington and Fayetteville City Council member DeAndre Jones support establishing Juneteenth as a city of Fayetteville holiday
 Now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby resolves that the City of Fayetteville recognizes, honors, and observes Juneteenth as a formal paid city holiday to encourage education and community service by its employees beginning on June 19, 2022.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby calls on all persons to reflect on the history of slavery in the United States and the historic struggle of African-Americans to end slavery and discrimination in all of its forms so there will finally be freedom and justice for all. And I would like to take the time to read a very important letter that I received. I received this letter today, and I'll pull it up. Give me just a moment, please.
 This is from a business owner here in Fayetteville and he is a 21 resident of Fayetteville Ward 3. He's the co-founder and chief strategy officer of Fayetteville Base Field Agent Incorporated. We launched our business in Fayetteville versus the other cities in the region due to the diverse
 and socially mindful culture of our wonderful city. As I have learned more about Juneteenth and what it represents for our nation, I believe Fayetteville has an opportunity to lead the state of Arkansas in adopting this very important holiday. As our country seeks to respond in positive ways to support the African American community, celebrating Juneteenth as a holiday would be a great way to demonstrate our full support of the ending of slavery
 and the freedom that it represents for all Americans. As a business person, I see this as a feather in Fayetteville's cap to retain and attract talent and bring in more progressive tech-based companies like Field Agent. Thank you for your consideration. Please support and vote for this resolution. OK. What questions do we have from the council? Anything? OK, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, but in seconds of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In-person people, please begin to line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart or
 We'll get you if you're inside the chambers as well, you'll be allowed to speak. Zoom comments we will take first to give people time to line up. Remove your mask only when speaking. Who would like to address us first on Zoom? Susan. I'm sorry, Mayor. The reason Raven is here is that Council Member Jones asked me to have Raven make a presentation as part of this. Okay. Zoom can go first, Mayor Jordan. No, that's fine, Raven. Okay.
 Go ahead. Good evening. My name is Raven Cook, 578 North Scottsdale Drive. Tonight I'm here to speak on behalf of the resolution to make Juneteenth an observed holiday. Upon hearing about this resolution, I immediately thought of the scholar James Baldwin, a pioneer for BIPOC and LGBTQ writers and activists.
 In examining America, he said, history is not the past, it is the present. We carry history. We are history. This quote hit me when hearing of this resolution because of the critical moment we are in as Americans, where we sit at a crossroads around the pain of examining our past. We carry in ourselves. Juneteenth is a part of the history I carry. It is in the echoes of my voice.
 it is in my flesh and my spirit and i am a resident of this city that history is tied to enslaved africans brought to this country through forced migration ripped from their language their families their culture to build this country for 12 generations black people existed as property in a country built on the words of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness
 On June 19, 1865, for a brief moment, black people were able to, as the historian Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois wrote, stand in the sun before being hurled back toward slavery through Jim Crow laws and dehumanization through numerous incidents of racial violence, like the massacre of Black Wall Street and Elaine, Arkansas.
 The resolution offers our city an opportunity to reflect on how the legacy of systems tied to American caste and white supremacy still impact our community. How understanding these systems and creating policy to bring about change can move our city toward not only inclusive language, but practice and make a better future for us all.
 It is my hope that you will take into account the words of the people and to offer Juneteenth as a day we all can collectively strive toward the beloved community Dr. King spoke of and so many people fought and died trying to build. Last year, the murder of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor and many others led to many questions like what can we do?
 This is, to echo Mayor Jordan, a first step. As a local educator, this resolution will pave the way for students to ask and learn about our complicated history as Americans. I support this resolution and I hope that you all will do the same. Thank you. Thank you, Ray. Okay, now we'll open it up to public comment. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? On Zoom, I have...
 Jeremy Williams, although that might be left over from the trees. Jeremy are you here for C1? No, he's taking down his hand. Myra McKenzie Harris. Go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan and members of the City Council. Good evening. My name is Myra Mackenzie Harris and I serve as the president of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Incorporated Phi Alpha Omega Chapter, chartered in Fayetteville, Arkansas and serving the greater Northwest Arkansas community since 1998. While I am a resident of Rogers and live at 719 North 28th Street,
 Alpha Kappa Alpha's reach is far beyond a given city or zip code. For Alpha Kappa Alpha, Sorority Incorporated is a more than 113-year-old organization whose motto is service to all mankind. In addition to our five international programs of service, all chapters, undergraduate and graduate, are asked through our International AKA Connection program to support efforts to advance and or support
 social justice, civil rights, and equity and inclusion in our local communities. We believe this resolution provides us with an opportunity to do just that. As a result, it is my pleasure to stand before you via Zoom in support of this resolution. I will not take the time to discuss the origins of the Juneteenth holiday as they are clearly spelled out in the resolution itself.
 Rather, what I will do is spend my brief time talking about what the adoption of such a resolution will signal to the Northwest Arkansas community as a whole and the African American residents specifically.
 To pass this resolution will do a number of things. First, it will allow the city to not only acknowledge but also celebrate in a formal way the hard-fought conclusion of a harrowing experience for many African Americans. This signals to African Americans and others that Fayetteville is a welcoming and open place for all.
 Second, it allows Fayetteville to continue to maintain its status as one of the most progressive and inclusive cities in the state. The racial demographics of the city make it clear that racial and ethnic minorities do not constitute the majority of its residents. In fact, they constitute less than 25% of its residents. To pass this resolution makes it clear that Fayetteville recognizes the crossroads at which we stand and is on the right side.
 Third, and perhaps most importantly, it is simply time. There is no time like the present to support efforts to celebrate freedom, liberty, and equal opportunity for all. My sorority sisters and I support this resolution, and we hope that the members of the City Council will do the same. I yield my time back, and thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you.
 who else would like to address us lance reed go ahead lance good evening city council and jordan um
 I speak on behalf of the Black Action Collective. Our chairperson for the African American Advisory Council, Lakeisha, will speak later. But the Black Action Collective fully supports this effort, affirming history and celebrating our history and preserving our heritage here in Fayetteville for the African American community. And this is the right step.
 And so I fully support this effort and I yield back my time. Thank you Lance. Coby Davis. Go ahead. Thank you Mayor Jordan and members of Fayetteville City Council. I'm Coby Davis and I serve as president of the Northwest Arkansas NAACP. We as members of the NAACP fully support this resolution.
 And we want to go on record as saying so. This would be a true sign of inclusivity for Fayetteville and all of Northwest Arkansas. We hope that Fayetteville will take the lead and be an example for cities throughout the state of Arkansas and throughout our country. We hope that this is something that will pass and we hope you will support it as we do. Thank you so much and I yield my time. Thank you. Will Dockery. Go ahead. Will Dockery.
 I just want to thank Council Member Jones for putting this forward. I think this is the right thing to do and just like when we talked about racism being a public health crisis, I think sometimes it can be uncomfortable pushing the city forward but these are the right things to do and the right way to approach this and I just appreciate that and I think this is an amazing resolution and I hope you all support it like I do.
 Thank you, Will. Who else would like to address us? So Mayor, I see no more hands raised on Zoom, but you have two people in the audience who have signed up. Sure, absolutely. Who would like to address us first? Please give us your name and address. Hello, my name is Lowell Taylor. I live in Springdale, 3726 Waterhole Avenue. I'm here tonight to express my support of the resolution to recognize Juneteenth in Fayetteville.
 As a city that preaches the progressive values of diversity, equity, and inclusion, I believe we need to practice remembrance. Juneteenth is an opportunity to remember and rejoice that black people were emancipated and to mourn that black people were enslaved. Michelle Alexander and others have written that the system of slavery did not end, but evolved into the systems of Jim Crow and New Jim Crow or mass incarceration.
 These systems are enabled by the story of white supremacy, the belief that white people and culture are normal and superior. If we want the beloved community, if we want reconciliation between black and white people in Fayetteville, then we need to repent and repair the damage done by white supremacist systems and stories. Black people were enslaved in Fayetteville. Black people were lynched in Fayetteville.
 Black people are disproportionately incarcerated in Fayetteville. One step we can take toward the beloved community, toward repentance, reparation, and reconciliation, is to recognize Juneteenth in Fayetteville. Please vote yes to take that step. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, Mayor. My name is Patty Williams.
 I live at 547 North Gray Avenue. Can you all hear me? Yeah, you might pull it down a little closer, just a little bit. How's this? That's better. Okay. Good to be here with you all tonight. I am speaking on behalf of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Becoming Beloved Community. This is a group of both parish and community members.
 whose mission is to work for racial healing, justice, and reconciliation. The BBC of St. Paul's, and I'm reading to you the letter, part of the letter that was sent, the BBC of St. Paul's stands in full support, a unanimous support of this resolution, and urges you, the City Council, to adopt it as evidence, recognition,
 and support of our city's commitment to equity and social justice for all African American residents and also as evidence of the absolute equality of personal rights for everyone and to end discrimination in all its forms. Another piece of evidence so that all our citizens in Fayetteville thrive.
 And I think a particular aspect of this that is so important is that in doing this, excuse me, it serves as a call to everyone in Fayetteville to reflect on our historic promise of liberty and justice for all. So thank you for your service.
 Thank you for your thoughtful consideration, and please vote in favor of this resolution. Thank you. Thank you, Patty. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is a resolution. We'll take a motion and a second. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Councilmember Jones, for bringing this forward. I feel that this...
 holiday and recognition is long overdue, especially considering the Tulsa massacre, then the information that we saw recently about the hundred, what happened a hundred years ago. So I will be supporting this. Again, it's long overdue. We should have...
 recognize the inequality in our country and in our city much sooner. So thank you for bringing this forward. Thank you so much. When I decided to present this resolution, racism is a problem in our community. And I think we all know that because in August of 2020, the Fayetteville City Council declared racism to be a public health crisis. With that being said...
 I believe that the collaborative approach, working to fix this problem together, is very necessary. When I think about Fed Bill, I think about diversity, I think about inclusion, and I think about equity, but there's one aspect that's missing, and that is belonging.
 If we adopt this resolution, I believe that that is the first step of African Americans and other disenfranchised individuals and families saying, I belong in Fayetteville. So I really appreciate your consideration. I really appreciate those who spoke out. And I really appreciate those organizations, those allies who are supporting this resolution.
 So do we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution? I move to pass the resolution. Second. A motion and a second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have from the City Council? I'd just like to say thank you, DeAndre, for doing this. You're welcome. You're welcome. Anybody else? DeAndre, thank you very much. I know that I serve on the...
 National League of Cities Human Development Committee, and we're working to make Juneteenth a national holiday all over the United States. So we've been working on that for a little while, but thank you for bringing this. I think it's very, very important.
 This makes me very proud to be a Fayetteville resident. Fayetteville is once again leading the state, and I believe Fayetteville is one of the very few cities in the South. So if this passes Fayetteville City Council, this is something that we can all be proud of. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, DeAndre. Okay, with that, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sarah? Let us all stand in the sun. Yes. John? Yes. Indian? Yes.
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number two, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $117,034 plus taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of two replacement pumps.
 for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $17,555.10. Kip? Whereas two denitrification pumps at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility recently failed, and the quote for the repair of the pumps is higher than the cost of buying new pumps.
 Whereas Jack Tyler engineering is a sole authorized dealer for this type of pump for our area now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of two denitrification pumps for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility for the amount of $117,034 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges.
 from jack tyler engineering incorporated and further approves our project contingency in the amount of seventeen thousand five hundred and fifty five dollars and ten cents okay tam thank you mayor in early 2021 one of the two denotification pumps at the nolan plant failed and was sent out to jr stewart pumping equipment for hidden damages evaluations
 The quote for repairs was $71,345.99 plus taxes and shipping. The regional pump supplier, Jack Tonner Engineering, was asked to provide a quote for a new replacement pump because the repair costs seemed high. The cost of the new pump is $58,517 plus taxes and freight, which is approximately a $13,000 less than the cost of the repairer.
 The equipment is a flight trademark pump, which has a specialized motor arrangement for the application at the Nolan plant. Furthermore, the manufacturer is represented for flight work in established territories, and Jack Tyler Engineering is the flight representative for our area. Therefore, a bid waiver is requested for this purchase.
 During the research and discovery process to find the best value for the city, the second denitrification pump failed. So we now have two failed pumps. These pumps are critical for the process. And we are temporarily adjusting our flow in order to accommodate this, but that's just short term. The total cost of two pumps would be $117,034 plus taxes and freight.
 Also, due to the volatile nature of materials in our industry, it's requested a 15% contingency of $17,555.10 for a total amount of $134,589.
 $134,589 in 10 cents plus taxes and freight. Funds are available in the wastewater treatment plants, pump, and equipment project. This item is presented at the Water and Sewer Committee with a 3-0 vote to forward to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the Council? Okay, let's take some public comment. I know a lot of folks are excited to speak on this.
 One turn to speak, five minute duration in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you. In person, please line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be given immediately.
 First, to give people time to line up, please remove your mask when speaking and please put it back on once you're finished. Who would like to address from the public? Okay. Is there anyone present that would like to speak on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? We would suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Second.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sarah? Yes. Young? Yes. Indian? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hunt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirkford? Yes.
 And your order is to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $117,034 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of two replacement pumps for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $17,555.10.
 This is an ordinance. We're on the second reading. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Grogan? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Burke? Yes.
 and nor does to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of 117 thousand and thirty four dollars plus applicable taxes and freight charges from jack tyler engineering incorporated for the purchase of two replacement pumps for the nolan water resource recovery facility and to approve a project contingency in the amount of seventeen thousand five hundred fifty five dollars and ten cents one final comments who we have in the council at least would you please call the road yes jones yes indian
 Yes. Teddy? Yes. Froggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksford? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, a resolution to grant the appeal of Carol L. Stratton regarding a notice of violation and stop work order issued by the City Engineering Division for clearing and removal of...
 woody vegetation within the streamside protection zone on property located at 1333 South Dinsmore Trail. Alan, I believe you have this.
 thanks mayor members of council as it says in your memo on april the 19th staff received notification that this area was being cleared in close proximity to the stream we were able to visit the site on april the 20th and witnessed that clearing that had recently occurred along the brush pile that clearing was about started about 20 to 30 feet from this from the stream bank depending on where those measurements were taken
 At that point, we did issue a notice of violation for that removal of non-invasive woody vegetation. And then you can kind of see the timeline there on April 27th. I did speak with Mr. Ron Stratton to discuss that violation notice, and he had indicated that,
 A building permit was pending on that site, so we verbally followed up with an email and agreed to allow him to proceed with that building permit so we could determine how that plan could be modified or if it needed to go through a variance process before remediation efforts were taken up on that property. And then as you can see, on May 6th, we received the alert and noticed it was in the field.
 Staff does feel that evidence supports the appropriate use of the notice of violation in this instance. And should the appeal be denied, we will continue to work with the property owner in any variance process or building permits that they choose to pursue on this piece of property. Available for any questions you might have. Okay. Is Kara Stratton here to speak before the council? Is she outside anywhere? And she's not on Zoom?
 hmm okay um yes i got a question for alan what is the punishment if we don't grant this
 Ultimately, the violation said, and historically what the path we've chosen is to have those areas restored to their previous condition. In this instance, it would require the planting of at least two trees, it looked to me, by investigating that brush pile and reestablishing some sort of cover, some understory there, grass or whatever it may be that would grow in that situation. So it sounds pretty minor.
 So I hope we don't grant this appeal. We literally had an item earlier talking about trying to get more trees. And so granting an appeal that it's okay to just cut down trees and then ask for forgiveness later doesn't make sense. So thank you. Okay, is there any other discussion on this from council? This is a resolution. Oh, I need to take some public comment, don't I? Sorry.
 everybody gets one turn to speak it's five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address federal residents be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you in person folks here please line up outside the chamber stay six feet apart
 Zoom comments will be heard first to give people time to line up. Remove your mask only when speaking, and please put it back on once you are finished. Who would like to address from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 I should note, obviously, for the record, the resolution was written to grant the appeal and remove the stop work order so that if you want to grant the appeal, that's you pass the resolution. If you want to sustain the stop work order as explained by our engineer, then you would defeat the resolution. Okay. Thank you, Kip, for clarifying that.
 I did have a question that I was wanting to ask. It says in here that there was a culvert that was piping the water. What's that all about and how does that impact this streamside ordinance?
 There is a culvert that's underneath the Innsmore Trail. If you look at the very bottom of your packet, I think it's the last page of this particular issue, there is a photo of the stream as it is adjacent to this actual property. So the culvert itself is only below Innsmore Trail, and then you can see a photo of the stream as it exists today beyond the culvert, if you will. Okay.
 Yeah, I see that. I just couldn't figure it out. Sure. Anything else? I move to deny or defeat the resolution. Second. Do we... Well, wait a minute. We've got a resolution before us. You would have to... How do you want to do that, Kent? Yeah.
 Well, I think that you can probably, if you want to, amend the resolution in front of you just to deny the appeal. There you go. Then I can write that up tomorrow when we officially do this for the mayor's signature if that's what you want to do. That sounds good, but do we need to then vote yes or no if we don't want to grant the appeal?
 Okay, if you leave the resolution as it is you need to vote no if you don't want to grant the appeal if you want To try to change the resolution you have to And actually I recommend that there's just a motion a second to pass the resolution If you even if you're not in favor of it and then just vote it down I move to pass the resolution Who you saying? What final comments we have the council on this I
 Well, the only thing I'm going to say about the Streamside Protection Ordinance, that's something that I brought forward about 2013, if I remember. Not even 2011. But I remember us voting on that because the purpose of the Streamside Protection Ordinance is to slow the water down, to soak into the ground to help recharge the aquifers underneath the earth, and it preserves the land and stops the erosion. And, I mean, that's why we have these rules in place.
 I couldn't, I know that, Allen, you were willing to work with these, with the people to try and work out a solution, isn't that correct? Yes, sir. And they decided to appeal it anyway. So here you are, and I certainly would not support the appeal myself, but I'll leave that up to y'all's wisdom tonight. So having said that, any other final comments from the council?
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number four, an ordinance to amend various chapters of the Unified Development Code to update stormwater regulations for developments in FedKit.
 Whereas the Unified Development Code currently requires certain stormwater improvements for developments based on the type of use and number of units being proposed, and whereas in recent years more developments are being constructed, are being constructed, have been exempt from any stormwater requirements, which is having a large impact on the properties neighboring these developments as well as the overall drainage system.
 And whereas during the discussions regarding the need for a more comprehensive stormwater program, the public commented frequently that these exempt developments should be required to mitigate their stormwater impacts on the surrounding properties. And whereas on April 12, 2021, these revisions were presented to the Planning Commission, which voted 8-0 to forward them to the City Council with a recommendation of approval.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 150.04 jurisdiction by adding a sentence to the end of the section as follows, quote, the City's planning jurisdiction does not extend to properties held by the federal, state, or county entities, unquote. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 151.01 definitions by repealing certain definitions entirely
 repealing and replacing certain definitions and enacting new definitions as shown in exhibit a attached here to Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 153 o 2 right of entry and inspection by enacting new subsections D and E as follows subsection D zoning and development
 For properties on which an active zoning or development application is made, development review staff and elected and appointed officials shall have the right of entry and inspection in subsection E, post-construction stormwater management and drainage,
 In applying for a grading and drainage permit, the applicant shall be deemed to have consented to the verification of quote as-built stormwater features as well as routine inspection of features within the public right-of-way or within drainage easements. Section 4 that the City Council City of Fayetteville hereby amend Section 15307, stop work order
 By enacting new subsections, Subsections D and E as follows. Subsection D, Noncompliance Grading and Drainage Plan. The City Engineer may issue a stop work order directing the parties involved to cease and desist all work which does not comply with its grading and drainage plan. And Subsection E, Noncompliance Repeat Offenders.
 the City Engineer may issue an immediate stop work order directing the parties involved to cease and desist all work on-site for parties which have been cited previously. Section 5. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal subsection C1A of section 15506, Appeals from Staff Interpretations and Actions and an Act of Replacement subsection C1A as follows.
 owner or developer who is agreed by the requirements of the Unified Development Code for land right-of-way or easement dedications construction of on-site or off-site improvements or payments in lieu of any dedication or improvement which are an excess of the rough proportionality of the impact of the development upon the city's infrastructure or services may appeal such requirement to the Planning Commission as part of the submission of the preliminary plan
 large-scale development, subdivision, building permit, lot split, grading permit, floodplain development permit, or otherwise within 10 days of notification of such development requirements. The appeal must be presented to the Planning Division in writing and state the grounds or reasons for the appeal. Section 6, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are clear by repeal subsection
 section 158 o2 excavation and public rights of way cash or surety bond required and an actual replacement section 150 802 as follows subsection a bond no person shall make any excavation of a street or public right-of-way unless a bond is first issued to the city for the purpose of guaranteeing repair and replacement of said street or public right-of-way
 Said bond shall be an amount equivalent to the estimated cost of properly repairing and replacing some street or public right-of-way as determined by the City Engineer. To satisfy this requirement, the person or contractor may provide a cash bond, surety bond, or irrevocable letter of credit.
 Permanent bonds or letters of credit held by the city under the term of existing franchise agreement shall be considered sufficient to fulfill the surety requirements for any person or contractor acting as an agent for the franchise holder. The franchise holder shall submit a letter or other document verifying that the person or contract is the franchise agent's and is covered by the franchise holder's standing of bond or letter of credit.
 Section 7th at the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Ortiz hereby repeal section 159.01 fees and schedule and enact an actual replacement of section 159.01 as shown in exhibit B attached here to
 Section 8 at the City Council the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals and replaces the following sections and subsections of Chapter 166 development as shown in exhibit C attached here to section 166.01 development categories section 166.02 D1 property line adjustment lot split final plat concurrent plat
 Section 16602E, building permits. Section 16602F, completion of development certificate of occupancy. Section 16603, plat requirements. Section 16604B, minimum improvements by application type. Section 16615A, application. And Section 16620A, applicability.
 Section 9 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are cleared by repeals and replaces the following subsections of 167.04 tree preservation and protection during development as shown in exhibit D attached here to section 167.04 A11 building permits section 167.04 A2 exemptions and section 167.04 H3 abbreviated tree preservation plan
 Section 10 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby repeals and replaces the following sections of Chapter 168 flood damage prevention code as shown in exhibit a attached here to Section 168.01a regarding a purpose of the chapter section 168.02 definitions section 168.05 administration section 168.06 establishment of development permit and
 Section 168.07 Permit Procedure, 168.10 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reductions, 168.11 Risk Zone Specific Standards, and Section 168.12 Streamside Protection Zones. Section 11 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksar hereby repeals and replaces the following sections and subsections of Chapter 169, Physical Alteration of Land, as shown in Exhibit F attached here too.
 Section 169.03, permits required exceptions. Section 169.04, minimum erosion control requirements. Section 169.06, F2, phased construction. And Section 169.07, grading plan specifications. Section 12, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Artshire, hereby enacts a new Section 169.14, stormwater discharges from construction activities, as shown in exhibit attached here too.
 Section 13 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals chapter 170 stormwater drainage erosion control and an actual replacement chapter 170 stormwater management and drainage as shown in exhibit H attached there too Okay. Okay, Alan you have You have ten minutes. So you're up. I
 Thank you, Mayor, members of council. Appreciate everybody's attention on this. This has been worked on for quite some time, starting back last year with Planning Commission, working its way with some assistance from our development community through long range committee and then into a technical advisory committee that's made up of a Planning Commission member, Commissioner Hoffman, and then multiple developers.
 to kind of get to where we are today. So first and foremost, thanks to you, the staff, and the city attorney's office, and the city clerk's office for helping us through this process. So currently our regulations, as many are already aware, single-family homes and duplexes are exempt from water quality and petition requirements. And that was brought to light during our discussions with the general public.
 And really a lot of very valid questions about why certain developments don't have to mitigate their stormwater runoff. As you can see, it kind of led to an infill development pattern, mostly of single family homes and duplexes on relatively small lots.
 created out of larger lots using the lot split process. So in our lot split process, a single lot could be divided, I believe, up to four times. Mr. Kurtz could correct me if I'm wrong. And then a single residential family home or duplex created or built on each one of those lots. Obviously that significantly increases the impervious area with potential to significantly increase the runoff from that area.
 Once a lot split is complete, a single family or duplex building permits are applied for and the newly created lots built upon. So what are we proposing with all of the revisions that Kit had just summarized for us? Really we're looking into drainage mitigation being a stepped manner. Right now our code is basically all or nothing and is highly dependent on use.
 So as we talked about before, single family residential duplexes are exempt from these requirements currently. Whereas if you get into a commercial or a triplex or other uses, all of a sudden they have to abide by the entirety of our drainage criteria manual, which we do understand, especially for small infill developments, can be overly burdensome.
 Given that and working with our development community and staff, we've come up with kind of this stepped manner, if you will, where anything that adds 1,200 square feet of impervious area or less would remain exempt. That gives some flexibility for small additions. It gives some flexibility for potential for AUs and other things without having to be overly burdensome with regulation.
 Level 2, 1,200 to 6,000 square feet of additional impervious area on a site would be brought into this process where they would complete a green stormwater practice worksheet, basically showing the developers what they needed to do to offset or mitigate for their particular impact.
 That would not require the hiring of a design professional. It can be relatively intuitive. I saw some examples and some sample spreadsheets are attached in the packets. 6,000 to 10,000 square feet of additional pervious area are also required to complete the Green Storm Water Practice Worksheet. In addition, they would require abbreviated tree preservation play and some adherence to our tree preservation requirements.
 And then they would also be required to do extended detention, and that's the step three referred to there in Africa Killer Level.
 As we kind of talked about, we are developing or have developed a cookbook that allows developers to take these types of projects and run them through spreadsheets and not have to hire engineers or other design professionals in order to determine what needs to be done. It would be proposed that these would go through the building permit process. In addition to that,
 They're only applicable to this infill type of development, if you will, that we're currently seeing. Full blown subdivisions that have already gone through the process, preliminary and final flats, have obviously already been through the drainage criteria manual. That impervious area has already been accounted for, so they would not be required to do anything
 In addition to our flood damage prevention code, Chapter 168, staff from MAC recommends no adverse impact language to protect existing landowners from increased flood elevation and velocities due to development and filling of our floodplain areas. So while those two things are very important, they are somewhat separate, so we felt the need to go ahead and point that out individually.
 And the entirety of the presentation that was given in the agenda session is in your packet and available to you, along with the red line UDC. But staff's here to answer any questions that you may have. Okay. What questions do we have from staff for the, I mean, what question do we have from the council for staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak for both.
 One turn to speak, five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. No engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Name and address.
 federal residents be allowed to speak first press star 9 on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized unmute so we can hear you in person folks line up outside the chambers and stay six feet apart zoom comments will be heard first give people time to line up please remove your mass only when speaking who would like to address us from zone alexandra brown go ahead good evening
 Good evening, Mayor, Ms. Norton, and City Council. I live at 3658 Mountain View Drive in Fayetteville, Ward 4. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm here to encourage City Council members to support Mr. Pugh with approving this ordinance. I really appreciate Alan Pugh, Ryan Umberger, and Jonathan Eli for their responsiveness to my questions and for being gracious with their time.
 More importantly, I'm here on behalf of my dad, Herbert Buchanan, who resides on Valley Drive. That runs parallel to the part of Weddington that sits right across from the Maranona property, which has seen some changes come to it here recently. My dad has lived on Valley Drive for 35 years. He is a retired mail carrier, a vet, and in his retirement, he has chosen to drive a school bus for Fable Public Schools, providing an invaluable service.
 We agree with Mr. Pugh and believe that having no adverse effects with new development is extremely important for residents in the city, especially when it comes to any further McMillan Estates development. I would like to talk about the effects of stormwater runoff for Valley Drive for just a moment. Valley Drive, according to the 2017 flood summary, is a problem.
 is a part of rain gauge number seven and is close to or part of that 100 year threshold that received the qualifying seven inches in 2017. According to the flood summary, that area got nine inches in fact. It wasn't just a mere inconvenience of the street being flooded, it came into the home
 Now, as a family, we came together and worked together to take care of dad and we huddled together the subcontractors to rebuild the home from the tear out to the rebuild. We have seen changes and improvements and there haven't been any issues so far. So I do not say this with an aggrieved disposition at all, but spiritually and financially, we cannot do that again.
 Our stormwater management plans denote that we are prepared to clean up 20% of our drainage annually. Valley Drive is in a tough spot because it's part of a larger floodplain and we are feeling insecure about our home safety. If McMillan develops further projects with large impervious areas such as they did with Cross Church and Fitness One. Legacy drainage plans that will create significant impervious areas and thus distress residents and other areas should expire now.
 And my family and I appreciate Mr. Hughes' foresight on this issue when it comes to the proposed amendments to Chapter 170. I'm thrilled about Juneteenth. I put out my sign today, in fact, but expiring the legacy drainage plans that could hurt lower-income neighborhoods is something that Fable can do to authenticate the reputation as a place that values diversity and equity and that leads on climate change. We have to get this detail right.
 about protecting economically vulnerable residents right in order to be proud of our climate change efforts. Mr. Pugh's presentation last week at agenda session was very comforting in that this ordinance does not allow development to increase flood heights on other properties and that is really what hopefully compels you to vote for this ordinance and to be very thorough when considering further developments.
 and or appropriating more funds to keep the culverts clean and free of debris. We hope that when all things come to planning committee and to you all, especially in the urban thoroughfare across the street, that appeals from staff interpretations are hard to come by and developers cannot wiggle their way out of compliance with these code requirements.
 We're common sense people. We're grounded in what's reasonable and understand that no amount of good engineering or planning can fully protect everyone from what is happening with increased rainfall. But what our family is looking for is for the city to exhaust their efforts with code updates like this and to give every neighborhood equal consideration when improving their drainage. That's why we're in great anticipation of the FTN study to be released here soon. Thank you so much, Council. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I don't see any more public comment. I believe Alan wanted to add something. Go ahead, Alan. Sure. Thank you, Mayor and members of council. One thing that I wanted to clarify for both you and Mrs. Brown, and I certainly appreciate her comments, and she's been very patient throughout this process.
 We did discuss in our agenda session presentation the sunsetting of legacy drainage plans. I just wanted to clarify that that particular item came in after we had gone through planning
 and is not currently written into the ordinance. We did discuss a couple of different ways in the city council effect that occurred, that it could occur through an amendment or it could occur through a new ordinance. In subsequent conversations with our city attorney, we did feel it was cleaner to bring back to this council a new ordinance dealing with that particular issue by itself, but certainly would entertain amendments that council would like to go that route as well.
 The other aspects with the no adverse impact and other things, I certainly agree with the importance of those. They had the opportunity to tour Mr. Buchanan's home after it flooded and that certainly was a tremendous loss for him and his family. Okay. All right. What other, we don't have any more, what public comments do we have in person? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What actions discussed yesterday I'd like to move to amend our ordinance to include the expiration of legacy drainage plans if I understood what Alan was saying
 Did I get that correct? I'm having a little trouble. I'm sorry. Oh, yes, that's much better. Thank you. I'd like to move to amend our ordinance to include the expiration of the legacy drainage plans that Alan mentioned. It was hard for me to understand him over the Zoom call. But if I understood him correctly, those are not included in the ordinance that we have before us. Is that correct?
 Correct, that would be accurate. I did have staff stick around some potential language as well, if counsel would be amenable to that discussion. Specifically, in Chapter 170.03E, Commercial and Industrial, we would propose the addition of, in the final sentence, a new section.
 When the proposed project is demonstrated to be in compliance with the overall subdivision drainage permit and the most recent drainage criteria manual. So it would be the addition of the verbiage and the most recent drainage criteria manual that I believe would allow us to accomplish that goal while still recognizing developments that are in compliance with our most recent standards, if that makes sense.
 I've got to say I'm a little concerned about that. Every time in the past that the City Council has sunsetted things like preliminary plats or final plats that have lain dormant for a long time, we have done that and you have done that, but that's always done after a significant period of time to allow the developer to exercise his property interest that he has in an approved plan.
 We have at least been a year or even longer for that because if you try to do it immediately then you're basically you're removing the property interest that the developers have had in the plan that has been approved by the Planning Commission filed for record and They can they can work on it. They have absolute right at this point in time to develop according to the regulations that
 when they first submitted their plan. So if you want to sunset that, then that's something I think we need to look at very carefully and have a specific ordinance just to do that as we have had in the past and not try to put it here at the last second, especially with no period of time to delay it. And because I think what you'll be doing is endangering the city
 And it's resources because you will be removing someone's property interest immediately without any...
 without any compensation so i don't recommend this change at this point in time that's what we talked over with with the engineers that if if they and the city council want to try to do a sunset so i saw her clause then we need to bring it back separately to you and it has to have a delayed impact so it doesn't immediately take place
 I think that it's dangerous and potentially not really fair to the developers who have one approval of their Project and to remove that approval right now regulations are normally
 in place and you don't remove them retroactively. You don't say, well, you know, you could do it last week, but now you can't. I think that you need to do that very carefully and I would not, this is a very important long ordinance we have here and I would like rather see it get passed and if we want to approach that other issue, let's do it with a separate ordinance
 where my office has had time to draft up something that we believe would pass constitutional muster. So I can't recommend that you amend it right now and pass it at this point. Yes, please. I withdraw my motion.
 and would hope that We could work together with the city attorney's office to bring something forward very quickly To address this this issue. We'll be happy to work on that and get something to the council. Thank you, okay All right council where this is an ordinance. We're on the first reading I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading so I can take it motion saying you go the second read I
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Pateras? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scronin? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. An amendment to amend various chapters of the Unified Development Code to update stormwater regulations for developments in Fayetteville. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second.
 uh may i say something really quick before we take a vote um you know this ordinance is is again long overdue but it's very complicated it's got a lot of depth to it i think i think we owe it to the citizens to hold it here on the second reading so that they have an opportunity to really digest it a little bit more so i would just ask that we hold it for uh one more council meeting to give the public a little bit more time
 i would endorse that idea okay so you always want to hold it right here did i have a motion in the second to go to yeah they have to withdraw you have to withdraw your motion or or vote or vote yes thank you i'm fine to withdraw my motion and give give another couple of weeks for people to to review that information it is a lot of there are quite a few changes so okay is that good did the seconder withdraw their motion
 I second it. Would you withdraw? Are you going to? Yes, yes. All right. Thank you, DeAndre. All right. Let's move along then to, well, I guess, what other discussion do we have? We're not going anywhere with this. You just want to hold it and we'll start fresh in two weeks? Okay. Let's go on to number five.
 An ordinance extending the expiration date for the current 1% sales and use tax enacted by ordinance 5428 on August the 2nd 2011 and approved by about 75% of the federal voters on October the 11th 2011 from June 30th 2023 to June 30th 2033 KIPP
 Whereas the current 1% sales and use tax was originally enacted by the City Council and approved by the voters in 1993, was reenacted by the City Council on June 4, 2002 and approved by the voters on July 23, 2002, and was reenacted by the City Council on August 2, 2011 and approved by the voters on October 11, 2011.
 And whereas the current 1% sales and use tax is scheduled to expire on June 30th, 2023, unless extended by the Fayetteville voters. And whereas the current 1% sales and use tax provides substantial and necessary funds to support the fire department, police department, community services department, parks and recreation department, as well as other general governmental departments and the Fayetteville Public Library.
 and whereas the City Council has determined that there is a great and vital need in Fayetteville for the continuing operation and improvement of municipal services and capital projects, which the extension of the 1% sales and use tax would provide, and whereas this proposal is not for a new or additional tax,
 but for the continuation of the one penny sales and use tax that has enabled the city to furnish valuable and needed services and amenities to its citizens and has helped Fayetteville to be repeatedly recognized and honored at a national level as one of the best places in the United States to live, work, and raise a family.
 And whereas ACA Section 26-75-208 provides authorizing legislation that, quote, the governing body of a city may refer to the voters a change in the expiration date for the sales and use tax approved by the voters to extend the levy of the sales and use tax beyond the expiration date previously approved.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that under the authorizing legislation quoted above, there is hereby presented to the voters on August 10th,
 2021 an extension of the expiration date of the current 1% sales and use tax Enacted and approved by Fayetteville voters on October 21st 2011 from its previous expiration date of June 30 2023 until the expiration a new expiration date of June 30 2033
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that all ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
 section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance shall not take in effect until an election is held on the question of extending the sales and use tax for an additional 10 years at which a majority of the electors voting on the question have approved such extension until June 30th 2033.
 Well, Kit, what Kit read is pretty straightforward. What this request is is for the sales tax expiration date to be extended. Give a presentation at the agenda session. And I hope that I was clear in the dramatic impact this would have on revenue to the city at that point in time. I'm just going to hit a couple of high points on this. Number one, the one pence.
 penny sales tax we're talking about generates uh 22 and a half million dollars 13 and a half million dollars that goes to the operations in the general fund those operations include parks all the elected offices that are required uh i.t engineering planning and zoning includes many many things
 Also, police and fire are the largest two users of these operations. That's 60% of the expenses in the general fund are related to public safety. To try to show you what it would be if this tax was not renewed, it's 27% of the general fund, a little more than 27% of the general fund.
 I attempted to show you what it would be like if we cut that across the board and how dramatic that would be, especially when we consider that personnel costs are 82% of the general fund. The general fund is very labor intensive. If we cut that across the board to everybody and took the percentage of
 27% out of salaries, we would have to reduce 136 positions out of roughly 500 in the general fund. We would have to very carefully evaluate each and every program and would have to suspend programs. We would have to look at contracts such as the Boys and Girls Club,
 to cut that. Seven Hills, the assistance we provide for Seven Hills, things of that nature. Remember, many of our offices are statutorily required, and we would not be able to cut those functions. Approximately 35 positions, if we spread it across,
 everywhere would be in the support positions. The vast majority of the positions would be in police and fire. And we would have to look at a total of over 80 people in public safety. I'm not saying that's a financial plan, because it isn't. I'm just trying to emphasize how dramatic that cut would be to the general fund operations. In addition to the general operations,
 40% of that one penny goes to the ongoing sales tax capital program. Out of that ongoing sales tax capital program, we pay for trails, we pay for the street overlay program, we pay for apparatus for the fire department, we pay for technology equipment in the police department, such as body cameras, all of our camera equipment, things of that nature.
 So there are a great many things funded out of that, including IT and many of the software packages for the protection of IT to protect us from the environment that we face today of breaking into the system.
 So that's the dramatic look if the citizens would not pass this tax. So with that, I will be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this from the council? I think it's relatively straightforward. If you have any questions, I'm sure Paul will be glad to answer those.
 Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star 9 on your phone or raise hand in zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear hear you. In person folks, please begin to line up outside the chambers. Keep six feet apart.
 Zoom comments will be heard first to give people time to line up. Please remove your masks only when speaking. Please put them back on when you are finished. Who from Zoom would like to address us? There are no hands raised at this time. Okay. Who here in person would like to address us on this? Mr. Clark, yes, please come up.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. I'm Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I'm the president and CEO of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. If I might, for just one point of personal privilege, let me thank you, Mr. Mayor. Let me thank the council. And let me thank Councilman Jones.
 for your passing of the resolution making Juneteenth a city holiday. We strongly support that resolution. We think that's a move and the right action for so many reasons it'd take too long to explain tonight. But thank you for your wisdom and your judgment there.
 We're here to support this extension of this tax and extension of this state. Pure and simple because over the last 10 years, history has proven that you, the city council, have been really prudent and wonderful stewards of the taxpayer dollar.
 the money that you've appropriated and what you've appropriated for has been not only beneficial to the growth of Fayetteville but beneficial to the quality of life in Fayetteville and because of that stewardship we have no reason to anticipate it would be any different
 going forward in the next 10 years. So we very, very strongly endorse this resolution. We very, very strongly endorse the extension of this sales tax. We will be campaigning earnestly for that as it comes to election time. We think this is the prudent judgment for our great city. We think that we have no question or no concern about trusting you with these funds because you've already proven historically that you spend them in a very wise manner. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Steve.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. This wishes the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second it. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Caraghan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hersford? Yes. An ordinance extending the expiration date for the current 1% sales and use tax enacted by Ordinance 5428 on August 2, 2011 and approved by about 75% of the Fayetteville voters on
 from june 30 2023 to june 30 20 33. i'll be able to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second the motion second to go to third and final reading lisa would you please call the road did you hear it yes yes opinion yes eddie yes scroggins yes yes yes yes yes
 ordinance extending the expiration date for the current 1% sales and use tax enacted by ordinance 5428 on August 2nd of 2011 and approved by about 75% of the table voters on October 11th 2011 from June 30th 2023 to June 30th 2033 okay what final comments we have in the council
 All right, yes. Just obviously we want to preserve a third of our budget and what we do here in the great city of Fayetteville and definitely want to retain all of our amazing staff. So this is incredibly important to the continuation of the work we do. So we need to make sure this gets passed. Yes. I said the other day we all just need to row in the same direction here.
 I know this is an extremely critical vote for the city of Federal and it's a $22.5 million and that would be a sizable cut from the budget.
 We got everybody, have everybody out working and campaigning for this and I know I will be so and I know you will be too. So thank you all very much. And with that Lisa would you please call the roll. Taras? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hunt? Yes.
 Okay, number six an ordinance calling a special election in the city of federal arkansas on the question of extending the expiration date of the 1% sales and use tax within the city of federal arkansas to extend the 1% Sales and use tax from the current expiration date of june 30th 2023 to the new expiration date of june 30th 2033 kit
 whereas on this first day of june 2021 the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas has passed an ordinance to extend the current one percent sales and use tax within the city of fayetteville which expires on june 30th 2023 until june 30th 2033 and whereas the purpose of this ordinance is to call a special election on the question of extending the expiration date and continuing the levy of this one percent sales and use tax until june 30th 2033
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby calls a special election to be held on the 10th day of August 2021, at which election there shall be submitted to the electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of extending the levy of the current 1% sales and use tax until June 30, 2033. Section 2.
 that the question of extending and continuing the levy of the 1% sales and use tax shall be placed on the ballot for election in substantially the following form. Vote on the measure by placing an X in the square opposite the measure either for or against. For extension of the current 1% sales and use tax within the City of Fayetteville from its current expiration date of June 30, 2023 to its new expiration date of June 30, 2020.
 2033 or against extension of the current 1% sales and local sales and use tax within the City of Fayetteville from its current expiration date of June 30th 2023 to its new expiration date of June 30th 2033 section 3
 that the election shall be held and conducted and the vote canvassed and the results declared under the law and in the manner now provided for municipal elections, unless otherwise provided in Title 26, Chapter 75, Subchapter 2 of the Arkansas Code of 1987, annotated the authorizing legislation, and only qualified voters of the City of Fayetteville shall have the right to vote at the election.
 Section 4, that the results of the election shall be proclaimed by the mayor and his proclamation shall be published one time in a newspaper published in the city and having a general circulation therein, which proclamation shall advise that the results as proclaimed shall be conclusive unless attacked in courts within 30 days after the date of the publication.
 Section 5, that a copy of this ordinance shall be given to the Washington County Board of Election Commissioners so that the necessary election officials and supplies may be provided. A certified copy of this ordinance shall be provided to the Commissioner of Revenues of the State of Arkansas as soon as practical.
 Section 6, that the mayor and city clerk for and on behalf of the city be and they are hereby authorized and directed to do any and all things necessary to call and hold a special election as hearing provided.
 if the extension of the levy of the 1% sales and use tax is approved by the electors to cause the sales and use tax to be continued to be collected in accordance with the authorizing legislation and the vote of the people and to perform all acts of whatever nature necessary to carry out the authority conferred by this ordinance and state law and section 7 that all ordinance and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
 OK, Paul. PAUL MADISON- This is pretty clear. This is setting the date for an election, which would be August 10, 2021. Again, I want to make it perfectly clear to all the viewers that this is the extension of a sales tax.
 It is not a new tax. It's the extension of the sales tax. But this is setting the date for the election, which be August 10 of this year. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. DAVID M. What questions do we have of Paul on this council? Yes, Tracy. TRACY K. Paul, could you please explain, especially to the public, why this election would be in August and not, say, at a primary time or during another election cycle where we have other races?
 Sure, I would be happy to. The reason we did and we decided the last time we asked for a tax in the same conditions continue now. It would take a long, long lead time to develop a budget for 2023 if we had an election in 2022 and if in fact
 It wasn't approved by the voters. We would have to go through all of the programs, look at everything, look at what statutory items we have to continue, what programs possibly we could reduce, just to show some of the complications it would take. I said we could spread it across if we could spread it to every program, but then, you know,
 Let's anticipate and look at that. If we did that to parks, that would be all of our park camp programs in the summer. We'd be cutting the expenses, and we would lose that revenue. It would be very complex. We would have to meet with every department head and go very, very carefully through every program to see how everything would impact it. And that would take a very long time. I don't have the time or the staff
 to do something like that at this point in time and simultaneously do all of our other tasks. So it would take a lot of lead time if we were going to try to fund it. To tell you the honest truth, it would be very difficult for me standing here right now to tell you exactly what we would do. It would take a lot of lead time. And that's the reason that we're asking for that much of an advance.
 nine months or ten months would be sufficient, but it would not. It would take much more work than that. Thank you for that. I get this question asked quite a bit, so I really wanted to get it out there in the public venue so that they understood why we need to have the election in August. So thank you, Paul. Absolutely, and I'm glad that you asked that question because we want to be perfectly clear why we're doing that. Any other questions from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes, broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Press star nine on your phone or raise hand in Zoom to be recognized. Unmute so we can hear you.
 In person, people, please begin to line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be heard first. Give people time to line up. Please remove your masks only when speaking, and then please put it back on when you're finished. Who would like to address first in public? On Zoom. Anybody on Zoom? Nobody on Zoom, but Mr. Clark is here and would address. Yes, we'll get the in-person people right now, I suppose. Yes, Mr. Clark, would you like to address us?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville. I'm the president of the Chamber of Commerce. We support this for two reasons. One, we think the adoption of this election date, separate from primaries and separate from general elections,
 is evidence that this council would be doing what the previous councils have done, been good stewards of how we're going to apply this money that would be collected because of this tax, taking enough time and focusing enough attention on exactly how you'd be developing the budget and what it would be developed for. We think that's imperative to getting a successful election so voters can know this was not put together at the last moment.
 and it was not put together with all the facts. The second reason we support this special election date, away from other elections, is that if it is a part of other elections, there's a possibility, and perhaps a very good possibility, this issue becomes politicized by candidates running for office that don't even have anything to do with the city of Iowa.
 but literally are running for state office or running for county office, and then start making campaign criticisms or campaign challenges on issues that are not in the purview of the office they see.
 And we still think that should happen. This is an important enough issue to our city. We've demonstrated that in the past. We've asked you to demonstrate that again and hold a special election on August 10. And that gives plenty of time for the people to focus on this issue and just this issue and not get caught up in statewide or national politics or issues that are arising that have nothing to do with the operation of city government in the city of Fayetteville, but everything to do with a lot of people's opinions.
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Clark. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading.
 We will suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Zeris? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Brogdon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Berksford? Yes.
 An ordinance calling a special election in the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, on the question of extending the expiration date of the 1% sales and use tax within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, to extend the 1% sales and use tax from the current expiration date of June 30, 2023, to the new expiration date of June 30, 2033. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance calling a special election in the city of fayetteville arkansas on the question of extending the expiration date of the one percent sales and use tax within the city of fayetteville arkansas to extend the one percent sales and use tax from the current expiration date of june 30th 2023 to the new expiration date of june 30th 2033. comments do we have in the council
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Sierra yes, John yes, and you yes, Eddie yes Yes Yes Yes, yes, I thank you all and the last item is number seven a resolution to approve the budget adjustment any amount of twenty thousand dollars paid for special election for the purpose of continuing the one percent sales of
 and use tax on August 10th, 2021. Paul. This would be to appropriate $20,000, which is the estimated cost of a special election to hold the election. I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address federal residents will be allowed to speak first Press star and I on your phone or raise hand and zoom to be recognized Unmute so we can hear you
 In person folks, please begin to line up outside the chambers and keep six feet apart. Zoom comments will be heard first to give people time to line up. Please remove your masks only when speaking and then please put it back on when you are done. Who would like to address us by Zoom from the public? Okay, I'm going to, anyone in person here would like to speak to us? All right, I'm going to, all right, we have a motion and a second. Do we have a motion and a second? No, we have none.
 i mean we spend the rules and go to the second reason i hit oh i mean we approve the resolution well we need a motion to approve i move we approve the resolution okay we have motion the second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council okay please would you please go with that view that second lisa would you please call the road
 katira yes jones yes kenyan yes eddie yes scroggins yes yes kirk yes herzberg yes okay that concludes our business what announcements do we have do you have anything don't have anything okay before we leave i i would be remiss i want to go back to the mask ordinance that we did pass
 and i you know i know i thank the council and i i think everybody that worked on this but also i want to thank the citizens of federal for helping us reduce those numbers i want to thank the business community for the sacrifice that they made making sure that this
 this happened i want to thank the medical service and i want to thank our public safety personnel they passed out over a hundred thousand mass people so i want to i want to thank them personally as well so i wanted i wanted to do that before we left tonight so thank you all very much and we're adjourned