June the 6th, 2017 to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay. First order of business, we have denied some reports. The first report we have denied is from the nominating committee. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes. Again, I want to say we had an abundance of incredibly qualified individuals that brought a very broad skill set to our city. We're very pleased that...
 We're bringing this slate forward, but we want to encourage anyone that is not on this slate to reapply. The nominating committee presents the following slate.
 At the recommendation of the mayor for the Advertising and Promotion Committee, 1, Todd Martin. It's an owner-manager for business and tourism industry. It's a partial term ending 3-31-21. For the Historic District Commission,
 Angela Albright, one citizen at large, term ending 6-30-20. And Rhiannon DeLue, one citizen at large, term ending 6-30-20. That is also a recommendation by the mayor, right? Yes. Okay. For the Animal Services Advisory Board, Lee Chris, one citizen at large, term ending 6-30-20.
 Jill Shade, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-20. For the Environmental Action Committee, Ryan Mills, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-20. Aaron Scott, one science discipline term ending 6-30-20.
 For the Fayetteville Arts Council, Ashley Byers, one working artist term ending 6-30-20. And Justin Hunter, one arts and cultural citizen at large term ending 6-30-20. For the Telecommunications Board, Justin Van Hoose, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-21. Zakhar Tamajani, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-21.
 and we do still have a vacancy on that so if there's anyone interested we would be looking in the next corner to fill that vacancy. The Walton Arts Center Council Sarah E Lewis one citizen at large term ending 63020 and Casey Hamaker one citizen at large term ending 63020. I submit this
 for approval. I will entertain a motion and a second to accept the nominees as named by the nominating committee. Alan? So moved. Do we have a second? Adela? I will second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the appointees named by the nominating committee. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay. Sorry. That's Adela. Okay. Not Adela. Yes. All right. Mark is the
 First and Adelis, the second. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. The motion passed. All right. Thank you. The motion passed. All right. Number four, report on the library bond issue by Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The Mayor directed me to let the Council know where we are with the library bond issue, and I'm happy to report that we're making a lot of progress.
 So far, as you all know, we've received title to the property. So that issue has been resolved. Selected an architectural firm and are working on a contract, contract negotiations with them at this point in time. We have a purchase commitment out or a request for a construction manager for the project. And as far as the bonds are concerned,
 We have the official statement out on the street, people look at. Next Monday, I'm going to meet with the underwriters to discuss...
 The pricing of the bonds and what we think will be generated and what the pricing will be, they'll offer the bonds Tuesday. We should have a commitment on the issue next Tuesday. Again, this is a $25.7 million issue.
 Based on the sale of those bonds, the mayor will sign a purchase agreement after that, and we hope to close on the bonds by July 19th. So we have that phase all in place, and we're ready to actually begin the construction soon. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Yes, this is something I want Paul to report to you all tonight, so if you had any questions, so you would know where we are. Do we have any questions on this? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Thank you.
 All right, the next order of business we have now is a consent agenda. Number one, approval of the May 16, 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Toyota Camry hybrid from Steve Lander's Toyota in northwest Arkansas in the amount of $25,517 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the police department.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $250,793 for engineering services associated with the Kitty Creek Sewer Line Improvement Project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,079.30. Yes.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas for the unoccupied banquet area in the airport terminal building to be used by the Osher Lifeline Learning Institute to conduct classes during the fall 2017 semester and the amount of $25 for each day the space is used. Number five, a resolution to approve a change order number three to the contract with Benchmark Construction of Northwest and
 Arkansas incorporated any amount of $42,021 for the construction of a gravel access drive, concrete pier pads, and irrigation system at the fire department training facility and to approve project contingency in the amount of $4,202.10.
 Number six, a resolution to authorize acceptance of an 80-20 matching grant from the Arkansas State Police in the amount of $24,160 for the development of an accident reporting interface between the City of Federal and Arkansas State Police public safety software systems and to approve a budget adjustment. Number seven, a resolution to approve an...
 Amendment to the contract with Tyler Technologies Incorporated in the amount of $27,329 for the development of an accident reporting interface between the City of Fayetteville and the Arkansas State Police Public Safety Software Systems. Number 8, a resolution to award bid number 17-38 and to authorize the purchase of the adoption cages and vet clinic recovery cages from Shower
 Manufacturing Company, DBA, Shoreline in the amount of $30,382.52 plus applicable taxes for the Libhorn Animal Shelter of Fayetteville. Number nine, a resolution to approve a contract for the Commission of Public Art with Stacy Bates in the amount of $5,000.00.
 for a Trail of Tears mural on the Chalagee Trail and to approve budget adjustment. And number 10, a resolution to affirm the Planning Commission's approval of a variance of penalty provision of the Tree Preservation and Protection Chapter of the Unified Development Code for property located at 1541 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. I will accept the consent agenda as read. Adela? I move we accept the consent agenda as read.
 Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. The next order of business we have tonight is a public hearing, which I will now open.
 And it is a resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Harold and Rosetta Harmon located at 265 West Nonamaker Drive in the city of Hevel, Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment. Who has this? Thank you, Mayor, Council. David Carver with Code Compliance. On February 3rd, 2017, Code Compliance received a request for service regarding the structure at 265 Nonamaker Drive.
 for a possible violation of City Code 173-09. After review, Building Safety has determined the structure is in violation of City Code 173-09 and should be raised and removed due to the extensive repairs necessary to bring the structure into compliance. A notice of violation was sent to the owner on record on February 16th, but was returned as undeliverable. The property was then posted on March 3rd, 2017.
 On April 3, 2017, the property was re-inspected and found to still be in violation of City Code 17309. Code compliance is requesting a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,251 for the balance of the project. And also the City Building Official is here to present some images and offer discussion on this structure. Okay. Council, Mr. Mayor, I'm Matthew Cave, Building Official, Building Safety Division.
 I prepared a short presentation. I'll try to be brief. Please speak into the microphone. I prepared a short presentation. I'll try to be brief. Most of these images are in your packet, but there are some, most of them are from our initial visit, but there are some subsequent images from later visits to the property to assess progress by the homeowner.
 As you can see on this first image, there are numerous areas of dilapidated and failing stone veneer on the house. Rotten windows, a couple of the windows have been covered by plastic and then one by plywood. The failing veneer is problematic on a structure because it allows weather and pests, either animals or insects, to infiltrate the structure, get into the wall assembly, and cause further deterioration.
 This is coming around the house. You can, again, you can see rotten roof. You can see moss on the roof, the dilapidated siding, a large portion beneath the window that's failing, which is pretty typical on this structure due to the failure of the window sashes and frames, I believe allowing weather in behind the wall and causing the wall to essentially fail from the inside out. I'll go to the next slide.
 Here's a close-up. You can see that this failure has been in place for quite a long time and filled with lumber, concrete blocks, some plastic bags. Note the algae growing on the concrete blocks, the deteriorated lumber that's in the hole just leads us to believe that it's been that way for a very long time and likely very difficult to maintain any kind of
 healthy and sanitary interior environment with an exterior envelope in this condition. Next slide. This is from last Friday where an attempt at repairs has begun. You can also note that the exposed wood has all been painted, but there's been no effort to abate the rotten wood or remove the wood or replace any of the units. Next slide. This is back to our initial visit.
 A few things of note here are the obvious sag in the garage roof line showing that the structure is just
 worn out and at the end of its useful life. Severe deterioration where the garage and house structure meet. There's a OSB or other wood panel material used as a siding that's just over weathered and beginning to fail and rot. Also note the window that's just been plugged with debris. I'm not sure what's going on there. Also visible are a couple of tarps protecting the
 aged and worn out roof. Next slide.
 This is from last Friday. You can see that the moss has continued to spread on the garage roof. The sag has not been abated. Again, the wood has been painted, has a new coat of paint, but there's been no effort to abate or replace the rotted portions. You can also see in the upper right-hand corner of the image the new roof that's been put on the structure since this process began.
 I've got better pictures of that, but also I'll address that here a little bit later. Next slide. This is a view from the rear of the house of that garage roof sag. I put a little red dotted line there so you can see what straight would be versus their current condition. Next slide.
 This is going around to the rear of the house and the garage structure. You can see again failing veneer openings that have simply been covered with sheet goods, failing dilapidated siding, multiple roof materials that are not joined or flashed properly. Next slide.
 This is the rear of the house. On the roof edge you can see multiple layers of roofing material. Both building code and most roofing manufacturers require that two or more layers of roofing be removed from a roof deck before a new roof is put on. No effort's been made to remove all those extra layers.
 You can also see some sort of wood panel used as a back door. It's doubtful that that's got adequate threshold or seals. It certainly has no hardware to make it a useful opening any longer. And then also I want you to note the attic access door is so weathered and deteriorated that it's not doing much in terms of weather and pest intrusion.
 Next slide, please. Simply another couple of windows showing additional failure of the rock veneer and the rotted wood. Next slide.
 This is the west side of the house. Some substantial deterioration and movement in the wall. It's kind of hard to see, but on that large crack on the left side, you can see some scoring in the mortar joint. And it looks like that scoring is offset a better part of an inch, which indicates to us that the structure is moving around.
 tearing itself apart. It can no longer handle the loads that are being imposed on it. Next slide, please. This is from last Friday. This is the same picture. I mean the same window. While the other side of the house received a coat of paint, this side did not. Still a rotten deteriorated window, large cracks in the veneer. Oh, and I need to point out that that's it on the right side. That's a tree. That's not actually a crack, but it
 If you just glance at it, it does look like a crack. It's just a tree. Another important image, I think, also shows the multiple layers of roofing up there. But down at the bottom, the bottom right-hand corner, that kind of oval shows where the rock veneer is starting to buckle. It's starting to move away, move out of plane, which indicates structural issues either in the wall behind or the foundation below or both.
 It simply can't support its own weight anymore. Next slide. Another rotten window. This one is racked so badly that the glass no longer fits in the frame. The large gaps are filled with nominal lumber. Large rotted areas of just missing material. Next slide. Now this is an image of the new roof.
 You can see the smaller oval is where previous layers of roofing material are sticking out from the new layers. The larger oval is where the garage and the house meet. There's been no attempt to feather the old and the new.
 shingles together to provide a weatherproof barrier. And there's a clear lack of flashing where the wall meets the roof. And the method chosen there is to simply turn up the shingle edges and divert water for a while.
 Next slide. This is inside the garage. This is the door from the garage to the condition space. The bottom arrow showing a missing hinge, doubtful that the door closes anymore. And if it did, it's missing a top stile and glass or someone has creatively wrapped some plastic in order to try to maintain some sort of interior environment.
 This is the north face of the house showing more veneer failure. It's also a large concrete patch that's being held in place by a piece of conduit and an electrical service conductor, which is also a bad sign. This is a picture of the corner of the house showing the electrical service installation through
 the failed rock veneer going to the interior sub-panel. This is the kind of installation that would warrant a call from our office to the Department of Labor to have this electrician's license examined. Perhaps a fine would be in order. This was an installation which we have no record of a permit either. Next slide, please.
 Simply a close-up from last Friday showing that veneer again out of plane, buckling, failing, the service conductor going in through the crack. Next slide. This slide was to show the vegetation that's grown up between the rafter and the roof deck.
 The failing rotten rafter tails, the window heads are separating from the lintels. Again, because the windows are moving different from the rest of the structure. Next slide. This is from last Friday. Everything has been painted. Most of the vegetation has been removed.
 The windows have been, the glass has been replaced on the two front windows, but the windows themselves have not been addressed in an attempt to, it does certainly look better, but these kind of upgrades are simply aesthetic and not doing anything for the performance of the structure.
 Oh, and then finally, the hot water heater on the front porch, of which we also don't have a record of a permit. It's fine for owners or just citizens to get a permit to install a new water heater, but it does require a permit. It does need to be inspected by our office, and no effort was made to engage us for that work.
 lengthy building permit application process that to date has not we've not received enough information to issue a permit the owner has either been Unwilling or unable to provide us all the required documentation But we have been working with him on numerous occasions and just haven't gotten there yet And I'll take any questions if there aren't okay. What questions do we have? Yeah, yes, John
 I'm always concerned that, you know, particularly in this case, where we have a person painting and replacing windows and showing some effort, small as it may be. The water heater being replaced without a permit. We probably have some old timers in our city that don't even know a permit's required.
 for a water heater. Just because there's an old water heater on the porch doesn't mean they don't have a hot water heater functioning in the house. Oh, certainly not, correct. Okay. The house next door, in one of your slides, I can see, I think I put my hand in some of those holes in the wall. Are we going to condemn that house too? Perhaps. Perhaps? One at a time, sir. The owners have made no, I mean, who's doing the repairs? If the owner hadn't responded to any of your notices?
 I don't know who's doing the repairs. But you admit that there are repairs being made. Well, we have photographic, well, we know that some paint has been put on the home and a new roof has been installed incorrectly. We know that much. Well, maybe the person making the repairs is not all that talented. Clearly. But it tells me that somebody cares about it. It's not like it's just abandoned and they don't care.
 They're making some effort. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. However, the house just certainly doesn't meet the minimum standards for inhabitability, as dictated by building code, the standard housing code, ordinance. Is anyone living in the house? Thankfully, no. So maybe they're working toward habitability. Okay.
 could be. As I said, we've had numerous meetings with the homeowner regarding his permit application, and even my director has gone so far as to give him two and a half pages of comments of issues that we think need to be addressed and need to be articulated in his application, but yet he's not been able to provide
 satisfactory information. How did he respond during those meetings? He said, this is crazy, I'm not going to do it, or he said, I'm trying to get the money together? I wasn't present in those meetings. From what I understand, he was willing to perform what was requested. We just haven't gotten the required information in order to issue a building permit. I don't believe that he was, I don't think he took issue with
 Much of what was proposed so he wasn't evasive or just hard to get along with or The the one meeting I had with him. He was not evasive or hard to get along with I felt like perhaps he didn't understand the scope of the repairs that would be required and And the the
 um the necessary effort in order to get this house to a minimum standard of inhabitability do you think he has a job does he have a source of income um i believe he's a he's a landlord i mean i'm not real sure i mean he owns um all he owns basically all the structures on and around nanomaker that's all one large parcel with um eight or ten structures uh something like that so i'm not i don't know of a
 of a nine to five job. I mean, he's an older gentleman. It would surprise me if he went to an office every day. Right. He certainly has. Just for the city council's benefit, my two oldest children and I were in El Salvador in 2010 around Christmas time. We visited with families that were very content, but they were living in houses you and I wouldn't store our garden tools in.
 So when you show me pictures of a house that's not meeting our standards, I'm thinking back to those people in El Salvador thinking they'd be delighted to live in this structure compared to what they're living in now. And I'm not saying we should lower our standards to El Salvador standards. Of course not. But I'm just hesitant to go into a situation where they're showing some effort, small as it may be,
 If you told me they were belligerent or they were evasive or they were just stalling for time, I'd say, sure, knock it down and let's go on. But I didn't hear that from you. I'm hesitant to—I'd want to err on the side of the homeowner in this case. I mean, I don't really know which way to go. Maybe we should knock it down. But I'd rather err on his benefit to his benefit or her benefit, particularly when they're showing some effort.
 That's just my take on it. They have different standards, I understand. I wouldn't live in that house. You wouldn't live in that house. But there may be some people that would love to live in that house. Thank you. Okay. I'm a little remiss here. Is the owner here tonight? No. Okay. Well, let's continue on then. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Clearly the house does need some repairs. I wanted to ask...
 Are we requiring the, in terms of compliance, are we requiring them to bring the home up to date in terms of the codes that we have on the books today? Or are we making reasonable accommodations for the age of the structure? Oh, certainly reasonable accommodations. I mean, I don't think it's reasonable to use the 2012 code book.
 on this structure. Certainly any, I mentioned building code in terms of the roof, any new work like the electrical or the plumbing, any new systems that are replaced need to meet code, but that doesn't immediately mean that the whole building needs to meet the code book. I mean, it's a hundred year old house. It's going to be hard to get there any way you slice it.
 We certainly are willing to work with them and get to the point of really darn good. Like I said, we're going for minimum standards of inhabitability. We're not going for perfect or even beautiful, honestly. So my inclination would be to communicate to the owner by action of the council that we're serious, and I would do that.
 by saying, you know, maybe we table this for two weeks and if there's reasonable efforts to address the concerns of the building department, as might be reported back to us, then great. And if there's not, then I'm ready to vote to condemn it and raise it. Okay. Don? Mr. Mayor, I just want to make the council aware that this original complaint, because we don't go out,
 proactively doing these structures they're complaint driven was a complaint from a individual who was habitating in the location complaining about the
 all the problems and the lack of responsiveness from the owner to respond to it, which is what generated this inquiry. I believe Mark Whitaker has joined us. He's the building official for the city of Fayetteville and has met with his property owner. And our primary request has been, do something, come see us.
 do a permit we've walked through the items that needed to be in the permit and we do have a lack of responsiveness from the owner to do that if you'll remember this was on the agenda two weeks ago when the owner was here and he asked for it to be tabled to this meeting so that he could come back and present to you why he thought that the structure should be here we don't see the kinds of repairs necessary to make the structure safe from a
 and there are other structures on this site that we would be concerned about, some that may be as bad as the one that we're talking about today, but I just wanted you to know what generated this actual complaint that was from a person inhabiting. Okay, John, I see.
 here on the okay okay uh yes so mr kabe you said there were no people living in it at this time had there been someone there was someone that filed a complaint i guess with the city exactly as mr marsh stated the the original complaint was generated by a tenant who was moving out it was soon after that
 after that complaint that we visited the site with code enforcement and determined it was in such a bad state that we needed to take measures, to take actions to not allow someone else to move in. And so we're not going to permit a water meter to be installed, to be changed over until such time as we could determine that the structure was habitable
 and things have just progressed from there. But that's essentially how we've kept someone. Now, I don't know if someone's squatting in there or if they're running a garden hose, et cetera, et cetera, but there's not a paying customer, so to speak. Okay.
 I would be in favor of giving this guy a couple more weeks. I suspect that it's just going to be a generous offer, you know, and it's not really going to change anything. My real concern with this is that this is someone who has not kept this house in a –
 livable condition and has made money off of people who obviously cannot afford to live somewhere else or have bad credit or criminal records or something and it's just it I don't want to allow this person to continue to take advantage of people by not providing a livable structure for someone to rent that's that's an issue for me so but I'd be willing to go you know give it two more weeks I don't you know don't think it's going to amount to much but I think I give two weeks
 Okay. Sarah?
 I hate to see us lose these Ozarks heritage structures. This is sort of one of our variety on the giraffe house, which is a unique vernacular Ozarks house type. However, the condition of this house is appalling and it's a significant safety hazard. And for me, what really does it is seeing that electrical service going in. That is a fire hazard. Someone could burn to death in this home.
 Also, with the amount of dilapidation, it's probably rampant with mold, which is a significant health hazard. And it's one thing should an adult choose to inhabit this, but if there were dependent children that could be subjected to that unsafe environment. And then seeing the structural issues.
 And the idea that if we were to have even another minor earthquake, that someone could get hurt and killed in this house. With the amount of rotting wood that we're seeing on the exterior, it's not unfathomable that someone could fall through the porch or fall through the flooring, probably in the bathroom. Because I'm imagining there's been extensive history of plumbing leaks.
 And then if someone were to inhabit this house, the high utility bills of trying to compensate for the lack of an intact building envelope would more than offset the savings of cheap rent and potentially put someone further in debt, further behind. And then also I think it's important that we go ahead and set an example regarding the other structures on this property, that we are very serious that they need to be habitable and maintained if he intends to keep them and rent them to other people.
 So while I am amenable to waiting another two weeks and letting this gentleman get his act together, I do think that he's had a significant amount of time already. We tabled it last time and that I can't see him making enough of a difference in the next two weeks to really push the needle on this. So I'm ready to vote to tear it down.
 matthew i'd forgotten that it slipped my mind that um he was here last week and requested a table did he give a reason for not being here tonight i haven't had any contact with him we've had no correspondence with him since then and i will add that we have attempted to in hopes of getting a permit filed for work improvement and i think our concern really is is that i think
 Mark Whitaker, our building official, has been very clear on the expectation, clear on what needs to be done, clear on filing a permit. And some of our concerns are that some of these repairs that have been attempted while poor have been attempted without a permit and a very clear communication about needing to be permitted to do the work.
 Well, in that case, I'd make a motion we pass resolution. Okay. Well, let me get some public comment. Is there anyone from the public like to address us on this? Do we have a second on that, by the way? Okay. Matthew made the motion, and Sarah? I'll second. Okay. Hang on, John. Let me see if there's any public comment. Is there any public comment on this piece of property? Okay. And the owner, again, I'm going to ask if the owner is here and would like to address the council. Okay.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution, correct? Any final comments from the council? John. Mr. Mayor, now I recall the case. When this homeowner came before us, I did have a conversation with him. He didn't seem, I doubt if he has a college degree, I doubt if he has a PhD, okay? Probably not the most educated person in the world, but he didn't seem that ignorant to me.
 He did have health issues. That's why he asked us to wait, because he was having some kind of surgery or something down in Little Rock. That might be why he's not here tonight. It might be that he's not just evading our authority. He might have a legitimate reason why he's not here. I would still be in favor of giving him two more weeks. I mean, what do we have to lose? We can still knock it down in two weeks.
 Council Member Bunch? Is this, it says motion to table. Is that what we're actually voting on? No. No. Okay. That was the first motion. Okay. I don't think anybody officially made that motion. Thank you. That motion would take precedence, but that hasn't been made. Okay. Thank you. Matthew. You know, this seems schizophrenic, I'm sure, but I want to hear.
 I've heard Alderman Latour's plea, and I'd withdraw my motion and make a motion to table for two weeks instead. John? Second the motion. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Any discussion? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? The actual motion is to table and stand in the room. And the tabling takes precedence over what we had here before. Is that correct, Kit? Yes, it does, although you can't really remove your motion without the consent of the second. All right.
 Okay. Which I have down as Sarah Marsh. If you don't, the motion on the table will just be heard first, but the other motion will still be on the table. That's fine. I feel like we've really tried to work with this gentleman enough, and because there are so many other properties in equal state, and this is not, the caliber of these issues didn't arise over the course of his immediate health needs. This is a long term issue.
 neglect of a property, so I do not withdraw my second. Right, so the motion of table will be heard first. If it's tabled, then we'll just leave it right, you know, it'll be on the table till the next meeting. If not, then we'll go to the other motion. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table. We'll vote on that first. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Ray? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Letera? Yes.
 I guess we have, that's four to three, so that being an internal motion, it only requires a majority. I guess you're still a member of the council, though, Mayor. You don't usually have to vote, but I think at this point in time you would actually have to vote yes or no because you make up eight, and so you need more than four to pass a motion. Okay. Well, I'm going to let it go two weeks, so I'm going to vote to table. All right. The motion is tabled. Two weeks. Two weeks.
 All right. An unfinished business, we don't have any. Under new business, number one, a resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewer system beyond the city limits to property located on North Star Road. Who has this? Tim. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. On May the 9th, Mr. Larry Long presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee a request to connect to the city's public sewer system.
 The applicant's property is located on the east side of the intersection of East Chelsea Lane and North Star Drive. This property is adjacent to the city limits but lies outside the city's boundary. The extension of the sewer service outside the city limits is not allowed except by approval of the city council per section 51.113 of the city code.
 There is an 8-inch sewer main on the west side of North Star Drive that would provide ample capacity for the proposed sewer request. The property is situated lower than the main, so a grinder pump would need to be utilized in order to pump the sewage up and across the street. After discussion at the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee, the committee voted 4-0 to afford the recommendation to the full council with a recommendation for approval. And I do believe that the applicant is present if he so desires to speak with the applicant. Would the applicant like to address the council? Yes.
 Would the applicant like to address the county? Mr. Mayor, Council, my wife Nancy and I, who is unable to be here tonight, she's on a plane back from Washington, D.C. right now, bought this property 24 years ago tomorrow. We did so because it was a neighborhood eyesore. There was no Gaddy Acres where Adella lives right now. There was no St. Joseph's. There was no
 Jasper Springs Ranch. There was only this incredibly ugly piece of property that had five foot of grass, huge rocks, gullies, and snakes beyond imagination. And thus we purchased the property and spent months cleaning it up. And for the last 24 years we have mowed it.
 and pretty much done nothing else. We've never offered it for sale, but it is that time in our life where we are downsizing, and it seemed a logical thing to start with downsizing with this lot. As an engineer, I looked at this and said, hmm, if someone could purchase this lot, being in the county, they would need to put in an expensive septic system, which would drain to other city properties and eventually to the Illinois River.
 and severely limit the design on their property. And of course, having a sewer system running 900 feet through my property across the street, I said, wouldn't it be a good idea to hook up to that? Of course, I'd love for this property to be in the city.
 but it's not, it is in the county, and maybe that's something to do in the future. But my request to you is to grant access to the sewer line from this property. It is one of these kind of win-win situations. The city is really out nothing. It has plenty of capacity to handle any extra sewer. It provides substantial revenue.
 for the city over the long term for at least one occupant, perhaps more. It's a large lot, 1.2 acres. And it won't cost the city anything because whoever purchases the property will have to pay actually a surcharge, a county surcharge to hook up to the sewer line.
 And of course it's a win situation for Nancy and myself because if we're able to offload this property, we won't have to mow it anymore. And that's essentially the situation. It just seemed a more logical thing for me that we just hook up to the city sewer across the street rather than put in a huge expensive septic system. Any questions?
 Sir, yes, um, I would just like to clarify who is providing the trash and recycling services to this street already The city city and fire service city. Well in the city on the city side Okay, but not on the county side and then who maintains the road that is a question I've been trying to address with the city in the county for the last 25 years the road
 Star Drive goes in and out of being all city, all county, half city, half county at various positions over that first mile. And I don't think either the city or the county is actually – some of them have maintained either side of the road, but it continues to be an issue. I wish that would be resolved. Wouldn't it be nice if Huntington was in the city? Thank you. What I'm trying to establish is just that –
 It's in line with the reason the Water Sewer Committee voted to recommend this for approval, is that we're really, all the services are already there, and so we're just adding or allowing them to tap into the existing sewer line, and we're not adding to the burden of maintenance for our city. Yes, all of the utilities except for sewer are on the property. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Thank you, Larry. All right.
 Any other public comment on this? Okay. Mark. I'm sorry. I'll bring it back to the council. Yeah. Mark. I move that we go ahead and accept this. Pass resolution. We have a motion. Sarah? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to pass resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Senator, would you please? I have a final comment.
 This, I wanted to go ahead and since this did come through the Water Sewer Committee, it is an exception, are not generally going to allow hookups and we've talked about it extensively in the committee in the future that are outside of city limits but this is an unusual situation with the location of the sewer main and Amano
 And so that's, as Sarah mentioned, is why we went ahead and recommended this. But it is not to set a precedent to anyone else that thinks that we're going to be allowing future development outside of the city limits. As far as revenue, it's revenue neutral. It's not generating revenue per se because of the infrastructure.
 and we look at it as revenue neutral. If you look at the schematic, there is a manhole right at the corner of the property. So I wanted to make that very clear before the council that this exception is unique and will be considered only on this unique piece of property. Okay, anybody else? Sondra, would you please call the roll?
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Ken. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Leter. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number two, a resolution to sell about three acres of land in the Commerce District to NWA Capital Investments LLC for $45,000. Mayor, I have that. We'd like to ask that the council table this item indefinitely.
 Push Plastics, which was the purchasing entity, originally tried to acquire a building. They're currently located in Springdale. They tried to acquire a building in Springdale that had had a previous offer made to it. So when that was not available, they approached us about land at our Commerce Park, which is the item before you. Prior to it coming to the council, they...
 land that they were not able to purchase became available again because of a um i guess a real estate transaction did not go through and so they chose to stay at the original location so we need this tabled indefinitely okay any questions on that alan motions table indefinitely i have a second second okay got that sounder okay
 All right. Any final comments from the council? All right. Please call the roll. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Banch? Yes. Monteiro? Yes. All right. Number three. A resolution to partially grant the variance request submitted by Bates & Associates Corp. to allow a more complete curb cut access for 1541 West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Who has that?
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. The property in question is on the south side of Martin Luther King Boulevard about 1-8th of a mile west of Razorback. It's bordered on the west by Eastern Avenue and on the east by Arbuckle Lane. As you can see in the aerial, the formerly existing buildings on the site have been removed recently in preparation for development. Also, as you can see in the aerial, there are existing four curb cuts.
 The applicant is before you tonight to request full driveway access to the property. And they've noted that they are reducing these four curb cuts to one single curb cut from which they would like that full access. The Planning Commission, when they reviewed this item, recommended that they be allowed to have right in, right out access. Thank you.
 And reviewing this item in discussion with the city attorney and the staff's engineering division, staff is recommending in favor of the request for a three-quarter access, which is right in, right out, and left in as well. As you can see on this portion of Martin Luther King Boulevard, there is a left turn lane that can be accessed, but staff feels given the 40 mile per hour speed limit
 along there and the crash counts in that area that it may not be a safe condition to allow left exit from there as well and Just for your information the crash data indicates that on our buckle between 2011 and 2015 there have been 25 accidents Martin Luther King and Eastern there have been 24 accidents. This is compared with on Razorback and Martin Luther King There were reported 231 accidents and Martin Luther King and Lewis just to the west there were 65 accidents. I
 i'll be happy to take any questions you may have thank you so jonathan y'all are okay with left in right and then right out or just correct right in right out and left in three-quarter turn all right what questions do we have anything okay is there any public comment i think we have asked for the applicant first oh i apologize is the applicant here yes please sorry did you want to say anything
 As you're coming up, as I notified the council that I have talked to another one of the applicants on this, and he indicated that the three-quarters access would be acceptable, and that's why I've drafted the resolution to that effect. But we'd like to hear it right from the horse's mouth if we could. Steve Fowler, 4746 Mabel Grove Drive, Fayetteville. Yeah, our project manager and part owner is not here tonight, but...
 It's the main thing, just having access to MLK. We don't have a real problem with the three-quarter access. Naturally, we prefer full access, but to go along with what you're doing, action taken, we can live with that three-quarter. We just need some access on our frontage off MLK. All right. Thank you. Do we have any questions for that? Thank you. Do we have any public comment on this?
 All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. And so, Adele? I move we pass the resolution. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Batch? Yes. Lutera? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number four.
 A resolution to amend the master street plan by changing the alignment of an unnamed street between crossover road and Bridgewater Lane and by reclassifying it from a collector street to a local street.
 Jonathan, do you have this one too? Yes, sir. Thank you. This property is on the east side of Crossover Road between Joyce to the north and Old Wire to the south. To get your bearings, this is across from the Paradise View Estate subdivision. It's currently being used for agricultural purposes.
 but a large-scale development recently came before staff to propose a senior living development to include 68 assisted living rooms, 34 memory care beds, and 68 independent dwelling units to be divided between two and three family dwellings. The request before you, as shown in this exhibit, is to remove this portion of an unnamed collector street that is proposed by the Master Street Plan to connect Crossover Road to Bridgewater Lane in the east
 Staff support the amendment for two principal reasons. The first of which is we are, as you may know, in the midst of reviewing our transportation master plan and among many of the issues addressed and agreed upon between staff and the consultant is there are a number of these roads on the periphery of the city and in the planning area that likely will never be built and if they were to be built, would be built to a capacity much greater than the city would likely want to encourage in these, again, peripheral areas.
 That said, that leads to the second point, where staff supports this, and given the type of development, it'd be more appropriate to have a local street to facilitate movement back and forth across the street. It is worth noting, perhaps, that although that Master Street Plan road is being proposed to downgrade to a local street, the multi-use trail that you can see proposed to the south there, the developer is dedicating a 30-foot easement for that to be built sometime in the future.
 The Planning Commission did vote unanimously in favor of this recommendation, and again, staff also supports it. Thank you. Okay, do we have any questions from the staff and the council? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. We're going to bring it back to the council. Adela. I'm going to pass the resolution. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Batch. Yes. That's her. Yes. Okay. Number five. An ordinance to rezone that property discovery zone and petition RZN 17-5772 for approximately 0.53 acres located at A10 South Cherry Lane from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to MFA.
 RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Thank you. This property is on the north side of Huntsville Road, about halfway between Happy Hollow and Crossover Roads to the west and east, respectively. It's on the northeast corner of Cherry Lane.
 I have an exhibit here kind of demonstrating this because this is a somewhat different rezoning request. The property is split-zoned currently between RMF 24 and RSF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre. As you can see in the exhibit, there is an outline where there was a former single-family home fronting
 Huntsville Road that has since been removed and the applicant is requesting to square off the property to all RMF 24 zoning in order to be able to develop it in a coherent manner.
 There was a significant amount of public comment both before the Planning Commission meeting and at the May 8th Planning Commission. This is a predominantly single family area and there were a lot of residents there that were concerned that the type of development that would occur may compromise the character and property values along Cherry Lane and adjacent neighborhoods.
 That stead staff is supporting the request and finds it to be compatible given a number of reasons. The first of which is its location on a major thoroughfare. We tend to support increased density on major thoroughfares as a means of taking advantage of that infrastructure. Also, the northern portion of this property that is already zoned RMF 24 is developed currently with a four family attached dwelling.
 As you mirror further north, beyond these properties, the zoning transitions downward to residential intermediate urban, which is a zoning district that allows two, three, and four families. So when staff receives it, this is somewhat of a transition zoning from the multifamily along Huntsville Road downward and northward, downward in intensity as it moves northward towards the single-family districts to the north.
 And the last major factor that staff considered in this is Cherry Lane is the dividing line in the future land use map between residential neighborhood areas and city neighborhood areas. This property is within city neighborhood area as it goes towards Crossover Road, and that is a future land use designation that encourages a wide variety of uses, both residential and commercial in nature.
 That said, the Planning Commission did vote to forward this to the City Council unanimously, 7-0, and staff is in support of it. I'll be happy to take any questions you may have. Thank you. Mayor Redekopan, City Council. Mayor, City Council. My name's Dave Jorgensen, and I'm here to answer questions on behalf of Sweetser, who, Sweetser Properties, who owns this property.
 And as you mentioned, the main purpose is to square this off to RMF 24. It is RMF 24 slightly to the north. And that's kind of the reason we're doing this, that funny leg right there going to the north.
 happens to be a different zoning in the part in green anyway, and that's the reason for doing this. Okay. Does the council have any questions for the staff or the applicant? Sarah. Yes. Due to the high traffic counts here and the location along the mayor's box around the city, did you consider rezoning this to a mixed use? It seems like this would be an excellent place for some commercial activity. Okay.
 We did not, mainly because the owner wants to build a townhouse on this corner, and we can use the build-to zone in the RMF24 and allowed us to do that. In fact, we already have a plan to build this, so we'll have to bring it before the planning department for this reason. But we know we did not consider that.
 Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Allen. Make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. John. Second motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Baum. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Thank you. Eddie. Yes. Thatch. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5772 for approximately half an acre located at 810 South Cherry Lane from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Allen.
 No. Sarah. I guess I'm disappointed to see a request for developing this high activity corridor at such a low density in terms of commercial activity. And I would really like the applicant to reconsider their proposal and with the idea of including some sort of commercial
 activity here. So I would request that we hold it right here on the second reading and give them two weeks to contemplate a little more density and what that could do for them. Okay, everybody good? Well, if you're gonna say something John, give me a punch here. John. There's a question there. I appreciate all the woman's, Marsha's concern for the martial activity, but I think we should defer to the
 applicants' desires. Zoning issues. Some people don't want to have coffee shops and neat little knick-knack shops down below them. Some people want to be in just a residential neighborhood, be it multiple family or single family. I don't think we should impose our personal preferences. The rules allow what the applicant wants to do. Let's let him do it or her do it. We can have our own personal preferences. That's fine. I'm all for that. I mean, you have to realize that
 We don't know what's best for everybody. I think we need to refer to the ownership of the property in a matter like this. This is an opinion that public safety has. So I'd like to go ahead with it. I wouldn't hold it. Sir? This is an economic development issue. And, um...
 We do need more services and jobs in that area, and this is a corner lot, a large corner lot in a high traffic corridor. And I think it behooves us to encourage form-based mixed-use development along this corridor as precedent for future development there. Adele?
 Yes, I agree that we need to hold it. I am very surprised that we do not have any residents here speaking because we've had several calls about this area. So I think it's a good idea to hold it a couple of weeks and maybe some of those residents can come back and we can look at some other alternatives.
 Yes, and keep in mind, Council, that when these are on the agenda, you don't have to pass them all in one evening. I mean, you can go two weeks, two weeks, and two weeks. That's what you can do. Right. So, but I will leave that up to you all. Okay.
 Adele well I would like to make the motion that we table this for two weeks well it'll be automatically table because we on the second reading right now okay I thought you needed I thought you makes a motion to go to the third and final reading we will stay where it is okay I thought you needed a motion no I don't think all right well we'll hold this for two weeks then all right number six an ordinance resounding a property describing result
 described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5776 for approximately 0.31 acres located at 1320 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description in Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. John?
 Thank you. Staff was contacted yesterday by the applicant for this item. They'd requested that it be tabled to the next planning commissioner, or left on this reading, excuse me, until the subsequent city council meeting. Okay, so we'll just hold it right here, correct? Okay. Do we just hold it right here, or are we going to take any public? I guess I can take public comment. Yeah, you could certainly do that. No, we're going to hold it on this reading, everybody, so if you're here to talk about this.
 It's going to be back in two weeks, so I guess if anybody's got something to say they can say it now But yeah, if you came to speak you can't speak and you can't wait for two weeks then the podium is yours Okay, I will take that as we will wait all right. We'll hold this one on the first reading okay number seven
 An ordinance for a zone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5770 for approximately .45 acres located at 769 and 785 South Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. The property in question is on the west side of Washington, just south of Seventh and Washington in the Jefferson Park area. It includes three lots of which two currently have single family homes. As noted, the request is to rezone the property from its existing neighborhood conservation
 classification to RIU residential intermediate urban this is the second of the two new zoning districts that were approved by the council in January the other being the neighborhood services general that you had the opportunity to to look at the last couple of meetings but just as a little bit of refresher to it the residential intermediate urban zoning district was intended for to
 promote missing middle housing. And that's not a very firm definition in the world of planning, but it tends to be any housing between detached single family homes and larger apartment structures. So two family, three family, four family structures.
 The RAU zoning district again as the name suggests, residential intermediate urban was intended for tighter spaces. It has a zero density requirement associated with it and it also allows for 18 feet lot widths for any type of dwelling, whether it's a single family home, two family, three family or four family.
 As you may or may not know, this property is in the Walker Park neighborhood master planned area. This was adopted by the council in 2008. It was a lengthy process that involved almost 200 residents of the city of Fayetteville and incorporated a lot of feedback to rezone a large portion of this part of Fayetteville from multifamily zoning districts that were leading to development that people are concerned about
 to many of the zoning districts that you see there today, including NC Neighborhood Conservation and the DG Downtown General Zoning Districts, which are adjacent to this property to the north.
 With regards to this specific request, staff is not in support of it. We do not feel that the proposed rezoning is compatible on these properties. Staff is not necessarily against the uses themselves, the missing middle housing that I alluded to earlier. Staff feels that it's more appropriate that this be considered through the conditional use permit process as it is under neighborhood conservation.
 That allows for not only for staff and the Planning Commission to review their request, but also for residents. By rezoning to the RIE zoning district that would allow these uses by right.
 Furthermore, it's a compatibility of scale that staff has concerns with. Under neighborhood conservation, you're required to have a 40 foot lot width for single family homes, 80 foot for two family, and 90 foot for three family homes. As I mentioned, the residential intermediate urban zoning district only requires 18 feet for any of those uses. That said, it does make it challenging. It is worth noting to develop anything but single family homes and acquire lots of that width
 And again, staff is not necessarily against the uses. You can find attached dwellings throughout Walker Park that do fit in with the area. It is possible to develop structures and dwellings of this type that are very compatible with the neighborhood.
 With regards to the Walker Park neighborhood plan itself, staff feels that this request is not compatible with that either. The plan does note that it is appropriate to encourage a diversity of housing, but it also notes that it's to be done in the areas of connecting corridors and higher density areas.
 staff interprets that to mean those areas that were deliberately zoned dg downtown general as part of this process along areas like martin luther king boulevard and 15th street that said the planning commission did forward the the request to the city council unanimously it was a 6-0 vote commissioner niederman did recuse themselves but again staff is not in favor of the request for the reasons i outlined and i'll be happy to take any questions you all may have what is the applicant here
 good evening mayor council my name is michael ward i represent the owner of this property um the property is for sale and in fact since planning commission approved this reason request the property has gone under contract yet to close so as jonathan reminded everyone and as we know walker park has a robust master plan that helps guide the development patterns in the neighborhood
 It's been several pages discussing housing and it specifies key locations where higher densities and the diversity of housing types can help create concentrations of activity, these nodes of activity. One of those key locations, as Jonathan pointed out, is along 7th Street where it's zoned downtown general. The property under consideration is adjacent to that.
 At the time of adopting the plan, both Downtown General and Neighborhood Conservation were new. At the time, there weren't really any other options that offered a transition between the high-intensity use of Downtown General and the single-family use of Neighborhood Conservation. One thing that's important to remember is that master plans are most effective when they can breathe and be flexible.
 and must allow for subtle changes in the neighborhood be allowed to incorporate new knowledge and new understandings the city has done that by adopting new zoning codes to meet this demand for missing metal that jonathan alluded to alluded to the request to rezone this property does in fact respect the intent of the master plan it offers
 unique way to transition from the downtown general to the neighborhood conservation because it's only three parcels under consideration and so it's an opportunity to create that transition of densities But the bigger issue is there's a need for housing. There's a need for quality and attainable housing in the city We have directives from city plan 2030 to encourage and fill discourage or reduce sprawl and provide attainable housing and
 Though it's tough to say this out loud sometimes, single-family zoning is inherently exclusionary. In an upward trending market, real estate market, housing diversity reduces, or limiting housing diversity, reduces options and increases prices. The master plan in fact recognizes this. On page 19, it alludes or recommends that duplexes, triplexes, row houses, apartment buildings,
 diversify the housing stock and enable families and individuals with different income levels to reside in the same neighborhood. In other words, it encourages that missing middle housing in these key areas. As many of us know, in this neighborhood, gentrification route is in full swing. It's a result of
 People coming in or people buying properties, renovating old houses, building new homes to live in. It's residents who want to invest in their neighborhood because they love it. They invest their personal money to make their neighborhood better. The effect snowballs so more people want to continue improving their home. And the more people do that, the more other people are encouraged by the neighborhood inducing or increasing demand. And as you know, when demand goes up, prices go up.
 which is where we are today. The early phases have changed in this beloved and established neighborhood. Because the land prices are going up, essentially builders have two options with an expensive lot. You build one larger house, one larger expensive house to cover the cost of the lot, or build two or possibly three smaller houses to cover the cost of the lot. Former exacerbates challenges of gentrification, the latter can help mitigate the effects.
 So I would suggest that tonight you have an important decision to maintain the current zoning and encourage three larger, more expensive houses or the option of changing the zoning and allowing, with this zoning option, allowing as many as six smaller, less expensive houses or perhaps even a mix of housing options. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. What questions do we have from the council, either for the staff or the applicant?
 on this. Matthew. Yeah, I have just one question for now for Mr. Kerr. At the agenda session, you said something about the lot which in the historic plat and the original plat for this neighborhood. Could you remind us what they were? That's correct. The large areas of the Walker Park neighborhood, not the entire, but certainly this subdivision was originally platted with 25 foot lots with the intent being that someone could,
 either buy one 25 foot lot and develop upon it or or two 50 foot 75 you could accrue however I mean lots your your income allowed and then that you had interest in having a yard so Yes, it was originally planted with 25 foot lots and many of the existing current lots are between 50 and above Do we have any insight into why?
 whenever we were developing this plan and trying to recognize the history of it, that neighborhood conservation was crafted with minimum lot widths that were a departure from the original plat and why the neighborhood was zoned.
 to restrict uses to single family and a departure from some of the historic uses? The neighborhood conservation zoning district was created originally as part of the downtown master plan, so I don't believe it was done with the Walker Park neighborhood in mind. I think it was, the intent was to reflect some of the single family development that had happened in, or that it still remained in the Mount Nord area and along west, just west of the library. Okay, thanks. Any other questions?
 Okay, what public comment do we have now before everybody runs up here everybody gets one turn at the microphone and Keep your comments addressed to me. Give us your name and address and don't engage councilmember anybody in the audience Okay, one turn at the microphone unless councilmember brings you up to ask you questions. All right, who'd like to be first? Mr. Mayor My name is Rebecca champagne and I live on South Church. I
 My husband Matt Champagne and I currently have this property under contract. And while my husband is a builder, we're not developers. We are longtime South Fayetteville residents and small business owners. And we made a conscious choice to invest our resources and skills into our town, specifically South Fayetteville, which has always been our home. The outcome of this meeting will have no bearing. Sorry. I did this when I typed it out. And I don't know why. Home, right?
 The outcome of this meeting will have no bearing on whether or not we proceed with the purchase of this property. We are in support of the new rezoning and hope that you will approve it. The changes to this location would allow for a more creative approach to the space and provide opportunity for more varied and attainable homes to be built. These kinds of changes are what provide opportunities for more diversity in our neighborhoods. I can't believe this is being taped.
 We believe that growth can be embraced if builders and developers approach it with creative and thoughtful plans that allow for change while preserving the feeling of community that we all hold dear. And we hope to have the opportunity to pioneer these kinds of changes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay. Please come up. Hi, my name is Paula Williford Combs and my residence is 1018 South Washington Avenue.
 We purchased that home in 1981, and I raised my children there. It's a very old neighborhood, and you're correct. It was platted out, long, narrow lots. We own four of them. Our house is on two of the lots with our driveway. And most of the people who live down there, that's the way it was. I assume they bought one or two lots. Some of them are long, the homes that are there.
 We did attend the meetings for the 2025 plan. It went along with what you guys recommended. At that time, it wasn't, I don't know if it was brought up about rezoning at that time, but people in the area have been able to build long homes that fit into the neighborhood. We would like to keep it that way.
 The 2025 plan was to draw more people who are low to middle income, who are firefighters, nurses, policemen who might come to our area. And that is being developed now behind my home. And I welcome that. I don't really, we fought hard not to have apartments, any more apartments than we have in that area. We would rather keep it.
 Homes if that can be done and I just want to throw that out there. Thank you. Okay. Thank you Who else would like to address this on this? Can you hear me okay pretty good you might okay just a little bit closer, okay, I
 So we live right next to where the houses on Willow Bend are going to be built. When I came in tonight, I didn't know there was a potential person to buy the place, and I'm encouraged by that. You know, my main concern is that we not have apartment houses there because I think that would not be in keeping. Not only does...
 this cellar have those three lots, but also adjoining is the two lots of downtown general. So if someone put all of that together and with the new RRU, you can get a conditional use for multifamily dwellings. That is my nightmare scenario.
 I wish we were further along in the process so we could see what the Champaigns are really planning to do, and maybe it fits right in with what we believe, but at this point in time, it seems like, even if they just ask for conditional use of the neighborhood conservation, that seems more in keeping with what we want in that neighborhood, and I know that the
 The gentrification is an issue. I don't like that. It's the way of the world, but we're just trying to keep it as low-key as we can and still allow for housing to be affordable. Thank you very much. I appreciate being able to speak. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Hello, Council. My name is Alan Osner, 312 South Block. I'm about eight blocks as a crow flies from this piece of property.
 Does anybody remember this? I do. It was 10 years ago. I do. This was the first master plan, the Walker Park. Of all the awesome master plans y'all have done, more to come, I'm sure. But let me tell you, this was a watershed moment for this neighborhood. We were just kind of hanging around. We were South Fayetteville. None of the activity you see today was there. None. People were living there.
 It was fine. It was a working class neighborhood. It's where I live. We chose to live there. But let me tell you, you pass this, you changed hundreds of acres from RMF 24 to single family detached. You put up the bat signal. You can predict what's going to happen in this neighborhood. It's single family. The investors started coming.
 There's not a single block in this neighborhood that doesn't have a major project going on. New homes, renovations, they're everywhere. It's unbelievable. I think it's very successful. You know, I can pass this around. If you want a barometer of your success, this is Bobby. Thank you, Bobby. Bobby sent everyone I know a note offering to buy our house. Is there another neighborhood in town that is that hot? Shut up.
 I got no problem with Bobby. I'd do the same thing if I could. That's a barometer of success that I cannot imagine. The city did it, ushered in this exciting development. So I'd like to take back the clock just a second. Walker Park master plan never happened. South Fayetteville is still RMF 24. Multifamily. Duplex, triplex, quads, quadruplex.
 Are you going to see any of this red hot development? Is the bat signal up there, you can predict your single family home will be protected? No, none of that. The single family that neighborhood conservation has brought in has been an enormous success. There are ways to get duplex triplex. It's called a conditional use. It just happened in this room, well it happened in planning commission two or three weeks ago.
 not even 100 yards from the piece of property we're talking about on South College. They got a conditional use. It's either a duplex or a triplex. We all saw the drawings. Neighborhood looked at it. Looks pretty good. We didn't have to rezone. There was that extra layer of involvement. Kept the NC zoning, get a conditional use. So that's what I would like for you all to consider. I don't think this rezoning is...
 Helpful to the neighborhood. I think it's a problem. I think it's inappropriate Top thing right up there. We will make appropriate infill our highest priorities. It doesn't say we'll make all infill appropriate Single-family residential works. It's working great. Please don't fix it if it ain't broke. So thank you very much All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on this? My name is Randy Nix. I live at 1372 South College and
 I agree wholeheartedly with everything Alan just said of what's working. We live in the neighborhood by choice. The fact that we have our own single-family little cottage there is exactly what we wanted for this time in our life. As far as changing the uses of the property, with the outcome being adding diversity, I think that's a good thing.
 The Willow Bend project is underway. I understand that there are additions coming to Morgan Manor. As far as infill, there's plenty of infill. The neighborhood is going to be sufficiently populated, repopulated with those two projects in and of themselves. My understanding and remembering of the
 uh walker park plan sessions of which my wife and i participated was to have single family or duplexes the one of the developers of the first one person involved in the development of the 1320 south college we've had several conversations and at one point he said well mr nicks what would you prefer to see in this lot next door to your house
 And I said, well, I am willing to live with the original Walker Park plan of 07, which would be a single house or a duplex. I live across the street from a duplex at present. I have no problem with that. I have good relationships with those neighbors over the years. But to change horses midstream and to allow for this increase of numbers
 square footage per lot and number of housing units per lot just seems unwarranted for what 200 or so of us quite some time ago stated and was agreed upon that we had our vision for our neighborhood in South Fayetteville, so I would be in agreement with what Alan and the others have said that would be great caution and
 in using South Fayetteville as a prime target area as some sort of stop gap solution to sprawl. However many units you could cram into South Fayetteville is not going to be a long-term solution for urban sprawl considering the way that Fayetteville metropolitan area continues to grow. Thank you. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Well, what do y'all think? What we got here? Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. The way I see it is, they're kind of two lines of dominoes in front of us and we can push one over, which is to deny the rezoning. And the purchaser of the property will build what they need to build to have a modest return and that will probably be,
 couple of larger houses that are on the more expensive side like we see happening down there now. We push the other row of dominoes over which would be the pass res zoning. They'll be able to make a modest return building smaller homes and I'm not saying that they're going to be affordable as the way we typically define it, but they will be they won't have to be as expensive as the larger ones because there may be a few more of them. So they'll be relatively affordable.
 And I think that we have this choice before us, and we need to shed light on it. We need to view it with clarity. For every person that lives in this neighborhood, there are a dozen or two dozen more in the region that would love to live here and will never be able to afford to. And they're stuck in communities that don't give them the same access to amenities or education that this neighborhood might.
 I don't think that passing this rezoning is making all infill appropriate. Downtown General has far more options and I probably wouldn't vote to do that on this parcel. But I find myself leaning towards supporting the zoning in front of us.
 Whenever I look back at the effort to do the master planning, I participated in that as well. I doubt anybody remembers that I did because it was before I even thought of running for council. I was just an observer, an occasional commenter. And I think the plan is such a marked improvement over the zoning that was in place. I think that if Farm F24 had been maintained as the status quo, that probably would have been
 more detrimental to the neighborhood than helpful. But I also think that the pendulum swings and it perhaps swung a little bit too far and it may be time for us to evaluate where the equilibrium for that pendulum is. When we look at the master plan today it's pretty clear from the map that's there that it's a plan of extremes. You have only single-family houses and
 and such limited downtown general that that will only be developed to its most intense use when it finally is developed, if land prices continue to escalate. So I'm interested in finding that equilibrium, and I think that RIU is a good candidate for that. Staff has recommended and some of the neighbors have commented that we should rely on conditional use permits
 But most builders or developers can't rely on conditional use permits because threshold for submitting a complete application is so high and costly that they can't justify the risk before they even know if the Planning Commission will view their project favorably. They rely on what they're allowed to do by right before they begin to spend money on their projects. We've also seen that from the comments of the Planning Commission that
 and from a review of the historic plats that the rules of neighborhood conservation are really out of whack with what was there previously. I don't think that it was wrong to use neighborhood conservation as a part of this plan
 But we can't deny the fact that it's very difficult to develop at any intensity greater than a single family house with the rules that neighborhood conservation enforces. If there is any sure way to make duplexes or triplexes stand out in a neighborhood, it's to use neighborhood conservation because it forces wider lot widths for those units. The duplexes that are in this neighborhood today that you don't notice,
 You don't notice them because they turn their skinny side of the street and they're on lots that are just as small as the single family houses around them. The commercial uses that are non-conforming or that are remnant, you don't find to be offensive, or I don't, because they're on lots that are as small as the single family houses around them.
 So if we want to rely on conditional use permits and we admit that we want to see a variety of housing types, as the plan alludes to in its narrative, I think we also have to talk about the requirement for developers to go to the board adjustments, which is such a high standard. It's to be nearly impossible to develop at any higher intensity. The statutory standard is very high. So I don't see... In my view, neighborhood conservation and its...
 ability to develop a duplex or triplex level with a conditioning use permit is really only lip service to that goal. It's not a practical application for most people. I went back and reviewed the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan in some detail. I wanted to cite a few of the things I read. There's a...
 survey and the results were included the question was of the many ideas you heard tonight which ideas should be made a top priority and there are nine things listed preserving single family housing is not one of the ones that was one of the top nine responses but encouraging higher density and mixed income housing were two of the top responses number six and number seven preceding them were development of south school boulevard turning south school into a boulevard improving connectivity in the neighborhood jefferson square and development of the park
 So you go through all those before you get to any talk about housing. Specifically with mixed income housing, there's a talk of, which the applicant alluded to, there's the idea that intensity greater than single family homes allows for people of varied income to move into the neighborhood, which I think is the decision that's before us. At the end of the document, there were quotes from participants that were included verbatim
 I don't agree with these, but I want to read them to put the full plan in context because it seems to me that we're viewing the plan through a lens that is at least 10 years old. And that time may be coloring our perception of the variety of voices that were present. So, again, I don't agree with these statements, but I think it's important to note that the plan included other viewpoints. Here's one.
 Quote, it is important to remember the neighborhood's proximity to downtown and the need for density, commercial, and mixed use. I do agree with that one. This one I don't agree with. Quote, I don't support the creation of and preservation of single-family homes. They are inefficient and unaffordable. Again, I don't agree with that, but it's in the plan. The next one, the neighborhood preservation concept seems to inhibit positive development of my neighborhood. Again, I don't agree with that, but it was included in the plan for context.
 The last page of the plan has a quote from a lecturer. The quote is, planning is bringing the future into the present so that you can do something about it now. That's the last page of the plan. And when I think about the future, just in terms of population growth and not considering things like another Katrina, you know,
 We need 20,000 dwelling units in Fayetteville alone to account for population growth going forward at a minimum. And if we don't build those, prices skyrocket. They increase, they escalate faster than they would, and that's just supply and demand. If there are less homes built than people moving here, prices are going to increase faster than they already are. And so I go back and I think, you know, I think about the dominoes that are before us.
 And do we want to enable a few more units that could be habited at a lower price point than what we're seeing built today? Or do we prefer the trajectory of larger single-family homes that are more expensive than what we're used to? I think that back when the plan was created, it was the best plan we probably could have gotten with the tools that we already had.
 We've seen with the North College rezoning, which we're about to discuss, that it's very difficult to change the tools in your toolbox at the same time as you do a plan. And so they did the plan with the tools that they had. Since then, we have urban residential design standards, which were created and adopted because this plan called for them to be created and adopted.
 The multifamily properties that are there that are built in ways that we don't like are not allowed to be built anymore in those ways because we have new standards, standards the plan called for. I think that, again, in my view, our codes have come a long way. We have pressures now that we're more aware of, pressures that maybe we weren't aware of when this plan was created, and RIE seems a very appropriate way to address some of those.
 Okay. Sarah. Thank you. I support this rezoning because I feel like we have a diversity of household types, and we need a diversity of housing to address them. Household structures are changing. The nuclear family is no longer the predominant household type. In fact, I saw in the last census 47% of women of childbearing age do not have children living in their home.
 Whether it's young people delaying marriage or childbirth, whether it's divorced non-custodial parents, people that are living longer, senior citizens, widowed or widowers, baby boomers that are now empty nesters. We have a growing population of people for whom a single family home is not necessarily the most appropriate house type.
 And we need the flexibility to accommodate this variety of household structure. When I compare neighborhood conservation to the RIU zoning that is proposed, the height stays the same, so we're not getting any taller residences. Really what we're getting is smaller lot size.
 And as a person who spent a month's salary on yard mowing, because I have more lot than I could, than I need, I have a lot of sympathy for people who want smaller lots and smaller homes and less to maintain.
 And when I look at the R.I.U. development that allows for cluster housing, and I think about how well that could serve maybe senior citizens that need a little more support or people around them, or people who are graduating from college. You know, we say we want to retain graduates of our university, but we don't have much to offer between student housing and single-family homes. Where is that missing middle? Well, I guess it's missing.
 And I think that this is a good opportunity to create some of that housing. And if you look at the historic plat maps in this neighborhood and in my neighborhood which is further south, these 20 foot lot sizes were not uncommon. They were meant as to be a way for someone to get their foot in the door to home ownership.
 And South Fayetteville has historically been a neighborhood for working class people. And for someone who is earning low wages, which average household income below or south of MLK is less than $25,000 a year, you know, how are they supposed to get in if the barrier to home ownership is high because we're requiring that each home has all of this land and is a standalone dwelling?
 You know, and if we look at where we're going to put density, we should be putting it close to commercial corridors like South School Avenue. We should be putting it within walking distance of our parks like Walker Park or our public library. And so it makes a lot of sense to put this density and this flexible housing types in South Fayetteville.
 And by increasing the density, we're increasing the property tax revenue in this neighborhood, which makes it easier for us to afford things like nice sidewalks and transit facilities
 service and so I feel like in the long run this is a good thing for South Fayetteville and I just want to encourage people to look beyond the bad examples of the older apartment buildings down there today because you know in reality we can't build a lot of those things anymore and let's not
 discriminate against people who can't afford to buy a house that maybe need an apartment, whether it's for economic reasons or just because of their lifestyle or their desires. And I think that this R.I.U. zoning will enable us to provide that diversity of housing types for the diversity of people and incomes and needs. Okay. Anybody else from the council? All right. Right now we're on the second reading. Okay.
 What's up? I'm sorry. We're on the first reading. Sarah? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Adela? I second that motion. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rgn 17-5770 for approximately 0.45 acres located at 769 and 785 south washington avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban adela sorry mayor i didn't take that off but i would move that we go to the third and final reading
 second yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay, and ordinance to rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 17-57 70 for approximately point four five acres located at seven sixty nine and seven eighty five South Washington Avenue from neighborhood conservation To residential intermediate urban what final comments do we have in the council? I was on the council in 2007 when we did Walker Park. I was very proud of that plan I
 We worked over a year on that plan. We had two or three hundred residents come in and tell us how they really would like to develop an area that I thought really, really needed the work. There was another one that came shortly thereafter called Fayette Junction. That's where I live. And we worked, I don't know, seven or eight months on that when they were just back-to-back, which we wanted to revitalize and improve.
 renew the south end because we had felt neglected forever in that whole area. In fact, we used to feel as though from MLK South, we just really did not really feel a part of the city. I'm sure a lot of the folks sitting out there would agree with me on that. So we wanted to be sure that our voice was heard. So in these two plans, which was put on by at that time, Karen Minkle, I believe, and Jeremy Pate.
 I believe. Donna, I think I'm correct on that. Adela was one of the council members over there with Brenda Boudreaux, I believe. And myself and Shirley Lucas were the council members from Ward 4. So those whole areas, we were next door to one another.
 So we worked very hard and I thought we really made some groundbreaking decisions in that. I had never really seen. We had finished the downtown master plan for Dixon Street in the area a few years before. This was one of the first ones we did as a city. Our staff actually put that together and just did a wonderful job. We probably had over 400 residents in both areas open a year and a half or so.
 And I realize times change. I see that every day. I've been here a while. And neighborhood conservation was something that we really wanted to do. It was sort of new. But times change. In my neighborhood, I have, and I will tell you this, I have houses. I have duplexes. I have apartments across the street around the corner.
 and we've managed to live there together for at least 20 years, and we've not had any issues. Now, I'm not trying to sway anybody's vote one way or the other. I just wanted to give everybody a little bit of a history of the work that was done there, the participation that was done there, the people at the time. Honestly, however, this vote might go one way or the other. We have come a ways from those days, that much I can say. And...
 So, with that, I will, Mark, I see you have some comments to make. I also was a part of the project when we set up the Walker Plan project. And I think that one of the things that we are faced with, with some of the arguments that have been presented tonight on whether to rezone as a false dilemma.
 I'm going to vote against this rezoning because I do think that there has to be respect for the intent of the Walker Park plan. I think that there has to be respect to the neighbors that participated in that in good faith. I think there has to be respect paid to the neighbors that have stepped forward to say this is what we anticipated. This is what the future brought. This has been the results of a plan that has been good.
 and I think that it is a clear implication that the plan is valid and invaluable. It's not preventing anyone moving forward. I think to say that a conditional use is a,
 is impossible or hard because we see them every day. And I think that if you need a conditional use in order to move forward on property, that that is a tool that is valid and valuable, and it is a tool in our toolbox to utilize in order to move forward so that you can have
 respect the zoning that is in place, but ask for a conditional use for a specific reason. So that's why we'll be voting against the rezoning. I think when you talk about a rezoning, this is a major, major issue.
 decision. That's not to be taken lightly. I think that you have to look at the history of the zoning in place. I think you have to take into account those that are directly impacted, which is with respect to those that own the property and respect to those in the neighborhood. So this hasn't been an easy decision for me because we did not have this
 toolbox is complete back then as we do now but I do think that it was clear and in reviewing the plan over the last couple of weeks I think that it's very clearly stated what the intent of the plan is what the results of the plan have been and I'm going to stand by the plan as it is published
 I think those are good points, Mark. I too would tend to agree with that. I think we put together a plan that everybody worked on together, and it's difficult. And I understand the new rezonings and the need for affordable housing, but I would tend to agree with those comments. I believe that the people worked to put this plan together, and so I would –
 I would support the neighborhood in this one myself. So having said that, yes. Might we wait for? Oh, I apologize. Yes, we will. While that's happening, I'm passing out the memo with the proposed change to the next item that would do with the
 City Council asked me to do at the agenda session, which is to separate that ordinance on college to only include the new zoning district and the definitions for that and not the actual rezoning of college itself. So at the start of the next agenda item, before I read the ordinance, I would ask that there be a motion to amend to this one so I can read the correct ordinance. Did you have a soft shoe routine? No, I'm afraid my dancing days are not...
 Very far ahead of me now. I'm sure Sarah will be here soon. Maybe we can get announcements from Don instead of at the end of the menu. I was going to say, if you want to talk about dancing routines, you can come dance at Thursday night at Gully Park Concert Series. There you go. I knew it was somewhere in our future. At 7 p.m. The group this Thursday will be called, I think it's pronounced Jacoby. Okay.
 I'll just give you a quick thing, then we'll get back to your item. They're an Australia quintet of brothers who immediately attracted growing audiences with their swinging, slick, and sizzling sonic buffet of pop, R&B, hip-hop, rock, soul, since first emerging in 2012. And we expect a really good time, so we encourage you to come out. Kind of like Be There or Be Square. More announcements to come later.
 And with all that happiness, we're prepared to vote now. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. No. Petty. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now we go on to number eight.
 An ordinance to amend the Unified Development Code to create a new zoning district urban thoroughfare lot. UTL to change or amend definitions of building height and stories and to rezone lots along and on both sides of College Avenue running from North Street to Maple Street containing about 24.62 acres as shown in Exhibit A of the Planning Department's memo. Yeah, I see.
 At this point we're ready if someone would like to move to amend to the substitute ordinance. Okay, Sarah. I move we amend to the Kitts Amendment. I would second that. Very good. Very good. We have a motion and a second to amend to Kitts Amendment. I like that.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. So I'll go ahead and read it now. An ordinance to amend the Unified Development Code to create a new zoning district, Urban Thoroughfare Light, UT-L, and to change or amend definitions of building height and stories. Excuse me.
 Whereas the Planning Commission requested that the Planning Department examine the zoning districts along College Avenue from North Street to Maple Street and recommend rezoning these parcels. And whereas the Planning Department presented its proposed rezoning to the Planning Commission on April the 10th, 2017, and received much public comment opposing the possibility of tall apartment buildings being constructed adjoining the historic single-family neighborhoods.
 And whereas the Planning Department adjusted its recommendations and proposed the creation of a new zoning district, Urban Thoroughfare Light, which reduces the allowed height of the current urban thoroughfare to lessen potential density. And whereas at the end of the third Planning Commission meeting on this issue, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the Rose rezoning and the creation of a new zoning district, Urban Thoroughfare Light. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Favreau, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enacts a new zoning district, Urban Thoroughfare Light, UT-L, as shown on Exhibit B of the Planning Department's memo. In Section 2 of the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Section 15101 definitions to change or add definition of building height and stories, as shown on Exhibit D of the Planning Department's memo. Okay. Matthew.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm generally in favor of the goals of this action as originally proposed. And I followed the debate through the Planning Commission and am receptive to most of their suggestions. However, you know, I think that, well, I do want to acknowledge some of my trepidations. You know, right now we're absent a Development Services Director.
 I'm concerned that with such a complicated action that we'll be able to move through this in a timely manner that still arrives at a quality decision. That said, I don't think it's appropriate to delay this and make any kind of decision contingent upon hiring for that position. I don't think that because this topic can be so complicated that discussion, I don't
 at the council level will be particularly expedient or efficient and i'm not making the point that we should rush into anything but i also worry that we get bogged down into the complexities of of this of this decision i'm very much in favor of referring this to the ordinance review committee uh i'm also insistent that if we do that the members of the planning commission be
 invited explicitly to continue to participate in those discussions. I know that the chair of the ordinance review committee is not here with us tonight. Still after comments here, if somebody doesn't beat me to it, I would make a motion later to table this with a recommendation that the ordinance review committee take it up. There were a few things that were addressed in so many emails that I've been copied on
 At the Planning Commission and at the agenda session, I wanna remind us that there aren't any easy decisions left whenever it comes to these kinds of things. If these kinds of decisions were easy, they probably already would have been made.
 I think that we need to remember and continually remind ourselves of what the current zoning entitles property owners or would-be buyers to build by right and how with the and the effect that the current zoning might have the abutting neighbors Many of which are in favor and many which are opposed by my read is just about split in terms of an assessment of the neighborhoods opinions and
 But I keep reminding myself that, you know, we just came out of a recession, and I've heard it said from people of both opinions that we don't need to worry about what it's owned currently because nothing has happened in so long with so many of those parcels. And I remind myself that we just went through a recession.
 And if the development pressures that are manifesting in South Fayetteville or in downtown or in Wilson Park or north of the university or anywhere else in the city are lasting, they'll manifest here too, whether we rezone this or not. And for those reasons, I think it's a real mistake to write off the impact of the current zoning.
 i do think there are a lot of other things to talk about with this but but again um i i believe very strongly that a more effective forum will be the ordinance review committee so i just want to get we can you can send the amendment that are the new zoning to the ordinance review
 And if you hold the zoning on the first or second reading, then you should have something back from ordinance review within two weeks. Well, you know, we can't actually formally send it. Usually it's accepted by the chairman for that. I'm sure he will do that. However, since, as you know, Mayor, it's a real long time to get something through the agenda, we're putting out the agenda for the next meeting tomorrow afternoon,
 So I would think we wouldn't want to go to the second reading. We'd probably want to leave it right here so that there's more time for the ordinance review committee to take a look at it. You notice I mentioned in my memo I thought that was probably the right thing for you all to do rather than trying to discuss it here.
 There might be some public comment, but beyond that, I think probably leaving it on the first reading and letting it go to the ordinance review is probably the best thing to do. But if the chair's not here to accept it, then what do we do? We give him a buzz? Well, I think we will notify him that it has been requested that it go to ordinance review. It's been left on the first reading to give him some time. Of course, we have members of the ordinance review committee right here. Yes, we do. And I'm sure that they're looking forward to working on this. Exciting work.
 Aren't you aren't you John John John smiling mayor? I just want to add since we kind of left our normal
 staff member going to this it is the staff's recommendation that this ordinance review take this and look at it because there are discrepancies even among yourselves on what you would like there's concerns on the density limits at 18 or acre from some council members their concerns on whether we have the right height then moving the language to stories there's concerns about
 um... roof lines becoming back as a part of it and not counting as a story there's concerns about the density of not wanting student housing projects some want density limitations so this is a perfect example in our opinion of council policy working committee and the ordinance review is the committee to do that we also want to make available
 on not only the staff that supports the Planning Commission and have Planning Commissioners join if that's the council's wishes, but to this committee is staffed by the city attorney's office, but also to provide city planners who have been working on this to be a part of that discussion in the working group. So we actually don't think you should act on this tonight. We think that you should defer it and we'll wait for the chairman's guidance on when that meeting occurs. But while there is a hurry in terms of people
 wanting to develop things and we don't want to lose that opportunity we want to get it right because as councilmember Marsh said at agenda session on Tuesday we're creating a zoning that while intended to address some of the concerns that came up with College Avenue it is a zoning that will be on our books to be used anywhere within the city and so we don't want to get it wrong so
 Sarah. I just wanted to say that I do think we are headed in the right direction with this, and I could certainly nitpick a few details, but I really –
 I appreciate the work that staff and planning commission has done. I just do want to encourage us to consider the zoning, or I'm sorry, the new zoning classification, the UTL, the Urban Thrift of Light, separately from the specific application on North College Avenue, just so that the two issues don't muddy each other. So I think that that would be wise moving forward, but I do hope we do so expediently. Okay. John? Yeah.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I motion that we table this and refer it to the Ordinance Review Committee. Okay. Well, what we have, we've got three readings on this. We could leave it on the first reading where it is right now, correct? Correct. And then the amendment is going to go to the Ordinance Review when we get a, unless we need to make some sort of formal motion to send it to Ordinance Review.
 If it comes back too quickly before you're ready for it, you can always table it at that point. Yeah Everybody good with that Is there any are we gonna delay the staff just let the staff give the presentation to the ordinance review committee That would be our preference Everybody good
 Okay. All right. Well, that's what we will do then. Everybody good? We're moving along. All right. Number nine, a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council, a city council meetings, seven presentation of agenda items by amending subsection D2, public comments. Adele, I believe you have this. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. This is a resolution that has been discussed for many, many years.
 And I think that it's, you know, up front we need to say that in no way are we trying to limit citizen input. We're only asking that citizen input be better organized and briefer. And perhaps communities can get together and decide who talks about what issue better.
 and we will have more citizens participating. As our chief of staff told us the other day, folks have said, I've come to speak and then someone would speak for 45 minutes
 and I didn't get to speak. I finally just left because I got tired. So I think what we're hoping is that we'll have better organization and more participation from citizens, and folks can come and wait a reasonable amount of time and not have to wait.
 give up their chance on their chance to speak. Our city attorney, in writing this, has built in two very important things. Number one, our mayor...
 can bypass this at any time on any issue he wants to. He can say, we're going to speak longer. But also a council member can call a citizen back up to talk again if the council member senses that that citizen did not get
 everything said they wanted to say. So that's the reason we're bringing forth this five-minute limit on citizen input hoping that we can be use our time more wisely. Thank you. Okay, well let's get at this. Alright, who'd like to be first on this? The only thing I'd like to say Mayor before you all start is let me just read what is proposed to be added. It's two sentences.
 Speakers shall be limited to a maximum of five minutes so that all other citizens desiring to speak on that agenda item or a later item will not be unnecessarily inconvenienced. By a majority vote of the city council members present and voting, this time limitation may be altered for a specific agenda item. So it's those two sentences only. Okay. Matthew. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I think that in Fayetteville where public input is a deliverable unto itself sometimes, it may be tempting or natural to view this as adversarial to that cause. But I think that the true impact is captured in the two sentences that the city attorney just read. And the rule we have right now, which allows for unlimited input from any one person, and
 unless they're cut off is not fair to people who don't get to the podium first and it is not fair to people whose Item they wish to speak on is not early in the agenda Okay, who else wants to weigh in mark? I want to also Be on record of saying that at no time. Do I want to feel like I'm restricting anyone's um
 opportunity to come and speak to city council over and over again. I've talked to individuals and expressed how fortunate we are to have good committees, to have good input from the citizens here in Fayetteville, and
 as the other council members have stated, this is not to restrict the opportunity, but to afford opportunity so that more people have the chance to approach the podium in a more efficient manner. Okay, Sarah. I would just like to add that for citizens who do have more complex issues,
 or time-consuming thoughts to convey, that they are always free to email us. I do read absolutely every email that citizens send. I don't always have time to respond to all of them, but I do read them. And that is a very effective way to convey more complex topics if five minutes doesn't cover it. But I think this is a better way to be respectful of everyone's time. John? Yeah.
 I haven't done an empirical study on it, but I think most people convey what they want to convey in less than five minutes. So I don't think this rule is going to necessarily impose on very many of our speakers before us. And I think that's a hallmark. I agree with Alderman Kenyon and those opinions that have been expressed tonight. It's a hallmark of free democracy and free government is that we have to be accessible. And we appreciate everyone who comes to City Council. We know it's not the most exciting show in town.
 So we appreciate when you do come and express your opinion, tell us how you feel about the city government. So we want to keep that coming. I think this rule will help facilitate that to a greater extent. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Let me, because I'm sure I'm going to get to run this, just for myself. Now, if somebody comes to the podium and they have run their five minutes, now I'm going to say your five minutes is up.
 That's the way I run it. So when you turn this over to me, we will strictly abide by the rules, unless one of you all say, well, Mayor, I would like to hear more, and I will be good with that, but I would like to have some sort of motion in second and a majority of this council to agree on that, rather than me having to say, well, no, and get into a squabble in here.
 So if somebody, if I call time on somebody, then one of y'all, if you wanna hear them longer, and I know some of you will at some point in time, I know you all well enough, we went through a few of these things, that you'll say, mayor, I would like to hear more of that. I think I would like for you to make a motion and get a second, and then the majority of this council decide whether we're gonna continue any more time for that speaker, all right? Do we need to, that's pretty much what you're saying, isn't it, Ken? Yes, your honor. Okay.
 And also, when the applicant... I could say, yes, your mayorhood. I don't know. Or Lionel or whatever. Anyway, now I also want to be clear when an applicant comes up that's asking for a rezoning, they're going to get some more time because they're presenting a plan.
 Yes, the applicant is a single presenter, but they are not bound by this, just like the original staff support on that either. I will note that for tonight, we didn't have anybody that would have been affected by this rule. It's only when you get someone that goes on and on and on that causes the problem for all the other people that would like to speak. Okay.
 Mayor, I do want to add for the council. You have another role, and that is when a citizen wants to make a presentation and a council member makes that motion and movement, then you have allowed people to make a presentation on behalf of a neighborhood. We saw that at the last meeting on rezoning with 265. That is also in excess of that five minutes. Yep.
 I can't remember, I think it was a 10 minute item or something that Alderman Long might have brought to your rules earlier. So there are opportunities for more complex items through a presentation format to be made for those neighborhood related items. And that was my next question is that if you have someone from a neighborhood make a presentation, most of the time they're gonna go longer than five minutes, or do you want me to let them go longer than five minutes?
 Right now the rules do say five minutes, but this rule allows Allows that to be changed by a simple majority of the City Council members present and voting So it doesn't require necessarily five votes if we don't have a full council So if we have a neighborhood representative, let's say and they go longer in five minutes Then I'm going to call your five minutes is up and then if you want them to speak longer We will let them speak longer by motion in a second. Okay, fair enough. I
 Good. That's all I needed to know. All right. I believe Sarah and then Alan and then Adela. Sarah. I would like to see us explore what we can use as far as technology to manage this so that this is not something that you have to be paying attention to. We have it. And if we have a button up there they can push and then the microphone shuts off in five minutes. I'm glad you brought that up. Let me speak to that. Your new technology that you have in front of you has been a big help.
 Has a capability for us to set a timer It actually does a countdown item of that five minutes on all of the screens your screen their screen and the public screens When that time is up We can either extend it if you choose to by adding time to it or we can cut it off And if it continues we can have the mic be Activated by our media staff. Yes, but I'll be watching the time. I
 I keep a pretty close tab on that. Sometimes I might miss it and say, Mayor, the time is up if I miss it like you will do for me, I know. Allen. I have a question, but in order to ensure that we're not limiting access to people, people's access to government, there is a rule also that we can call people back up to the podium. You can. There's really more opportunities even for us to get additional input from people.
 Okay, and Adele. I wanted a little clarification on when a citizen wants to do a PowerPoint, let's say they contact the clerk's office, and explain that to me, please. Kit? Well, yes, I think that we try to run it through the clerk's office so that make sure that their media is going to work with our media presentation, make sure that everything is going to
 Work out satisfactorily. Don, I don't know if you want to add something to that. I'll just add that we typically reference them to the council member of their particular ward because your rules do require you to make the motion to have a presentation by them. And so we make sure they're aware of that and typically prepare for it with the assumption that you're going to allow it.
 And is it, I was thinking that one was limited to five minutes also. That is limited, but of course you always have, especially with this new sentence, you have the right to extend that if you would like to. Okay, thank you. You know, counsel, we don't have tremendously hard and fast rules. If one of you said I'd like to hear what they've got to say and you make a motion in a second, I usually go, okay, well, I'm good with that. Certainly. But I will keep us track. Okay.
 We'll work together on this. All right? Okay. Well, do we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution? Okay. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. I guess we need to ask for public comment, too. Oh, I apologize. What public comment do we have on this? And right now it's not limited to five minutes. All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Chandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Batch. Yes. Matera. Yes. Okay. Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, we have several announcements. If you'd like your Thursday entirely occupied, you...
 can start with us in the morning on Thursday, June the 8th at 9.30 a.m. at 1400 North Foxhunter Road at the Fayetteville Paul R. Noland wastewater treatment facility to celebrate a first of its kind water disinfection system installation. We're having a ribbon cutting of our new HyDOS disinfection system.
 which removes emerging contaminants such as pharmaceuticals out of our water at a much more effective rate, an investment that the council made in preparations of having the cleanest and highest quality of water. There will be tours of the facility, refreshments, so...
 That's Thursday, and that's with our partners CH2M and Blue and Green, which is a Fayetteville-created company who was the creators of the technology that we're using.
 Also on Thursday at 2 p.m. at 2505 East Borick Drive, we have the ribbon cutting of our new fire training center. So please come out. Chief Jay Ringer and his team will be showing the public and the council our new training facilities. You've approved many items related to the construction of this, so we encourage you to come out and visit that as well.
 on Thursday at 5 30 p.m. the Mayor's Award for Outstanding Service in Historic Preservation will be given here in room 326 at the Historic District Commission meeting where we will present an award to citizen Greg Herman for his exemplary work in documenting historic structures in Northwest Arkansas so time
 recognize one of our citizens for their contributions. There's been lots of discussions in our community recently about historic preservation, and so this is an opportunity to engage in that as well as come and see the awards given in that area by the mayor that evening. We will have a slight inconvenience for our citizens beginning Thursday, June 8th, after 4 p.m.,
 all day Friday, June 9th, all day Saturday, all day Sunday, and then opening for normal operations on Monday as we will be doing our utility billing conversion and implementation for water bills, so after
 Thursday at 4 o'clock, we will close to taking and accepting bills other than online, which you can still continue to do. But the teller windows here at City Hall will be closed. That is so that we can actually do our conversion, convert the data, and be open for operations on Monday. That information is on our city website, if you have specifics on it.
 We have no cutoff days or penalties for that due to this closure, but we'll be back to business as normal on Monday. This technology will give us future capabilities that we've had citizens doing that the council has heard about and talked about things like emailed water bills and the ability to pay your accounts in a more friendly manner. These are things that...
 our citizens expect and we're on our steps to doing that this is one of our last ERP conversion items we've converted our financial systems our payroll and HR systems and we're now at our utility building which is one of our largest systems so that's why we need the weekend to be able to make that conversion and let me make sure I've hit and that's all of the announcements I have
 Mayor, I want to tell the city council I'm going to have to miss your agenda meeting next Tuesday. The National League of Cities is flying me up to New York City to be on a panel at Fordham Law School on Monday and talking about state preemption of municipal powers, probably related to the civil rights ordinance. And my flight back doesn't land until about 4 o'clock, so Blake will be there at your agenda session.
 Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.