i'd like to call to order the city council meeting meeting for june the 6th 2023 care which please call the right bernard here here herzberg here harvey here jones here moore here medica here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of a leaf
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. All right. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. All right. Number one, approval of the May 16, 2023 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars to allow Revenue from the e-scooter program to be used for the city's trails and mobility program number three a resolution to award bid number 23 dash 24 and authorized contract with Milestone Construction Company LLC in the amount of four hundred eighty eight thousand three hundred dollars and twenty nine cents and
 for Happy Hollow Sidewalk Improvements Project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $50,000. Number four, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineers Incorporated in the amount not to exceed $98,610 for additional services during the final design phases of the utility relocations along Highway 112.
 Number five, a resolution to approve Amendment Number One to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Weir Engineers Incorporated in the amount not to exceed $276,110 for the additional design services for utility relocations associated with the I-49 Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard Interchange project. Number six, a resolution to approve.
 Approve a professional engineering services agreement with KLM Engineering Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 23-01, selection number three, any amount not to exceed $36,062 for water storage tank inspections and to approve project latency in the amount of $7,212.40. Thanks.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve a contract with Wex Bank pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing agreement to enable the city to participate in a fuel card program. Number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of copiers and managed print services from Canon USA, Inc. pursuant to a State of Arkansas co-operative purchasing contract due July 31st, 2024.
 9. A resolution to authorize contract with GovDeals, Corp. for online auction services.
 for surplus equipment and vehicles through march 19 2025 and any renewal periods pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract number 10 a resolution authorized the purchase of a kubota tractor from springdale tractor for the amount of sixteen thousand six hundred and fifty one dollar six hundred fifty one dollars and seventy two cents plus any applicable taxes and freight charges presented to source well cooperative purchasing contract and approved budget
 All right, number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Gap Vac excavator from Gap Vac Incorporated in the amount of $665,575.70 plus any applicable taxes, sales taxes, and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract and to approve budget justice.
 number 12 a resolution to approve the purchase of two international heavy duty utility trucks and one snow plow attachment from rush truck centers of arkansas incorporated for the total amount of 218 435.95 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges presented to source well cooperative purchasing contract number 13 a resolution to approve the purchase of two international
 Recycle body trucks from rush truck centers of Arkansas Incorporated for the total amount of $499,990.56 plus any applicable taxes and precharges pursuant to a source well quality purchasing contract. Number 14, a resolution to approve a utility relocation agreement with the Arkansas State Highway Commission for utility relocations related to the Highway 16 East widening project.
 Number 15, a resolution to approve the utility relocation agreement with the Ardensell State Highway Commission for utility relocations related to the Highway 112 improvements project. Number 16, a resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $10,434.25 to Robert Walsh and Equity Trust Company for
 FOR WATER MAIN BREAKING DAMAGE AT 2416 E. SHERRON STREET AND TO APPROVE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. NUMBER 17, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A RESOLUTION PURSUANT TO 39.10C4 OF THE FEDERAL CITY CODE TO AUTHORIZE THE MAYOR TO PAY THE AMOUNT OF $42,971.43 TO STEVE AND HEATHER MANGAN FOR SEWER OVERFLOW DAMAGE AT 3190 NORTH
 Melinda Drive number 18 a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with the with the Beaver Watershed Alliance for the installation of low-impact development features in the town branch waterstead associated with the Elmhurst and McClinton drainage improvement projects with matching funds provided by the city in the amount of $190,000 in approved budget adjustment number 19 a
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Fries and Nichols Incorporated pursuant to an RFQ-2214 in the amount not to exceed $151,000.
 $420 for Hamstring Creek watershed flood mitigation and grant support. Number 20, a resolution to award bid number 2323 and authorize five-year airport hayfield lease agreement with Ann Harbison for rent in the amount of $6,001 per year. And number 21, a resolution to authorize...
 Purchase of radio equipment from Motorola Solutions corporate any amount of four hundred nineteen thousand three hundred eighty three dollars and twenty nine cents plus any applicable taxes tax and freight charges to And to approve budget just might entertain a motion to accept consent agenda is read So moved second here, would you please call row? Yes Yes Yes, I
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Okay, and I said all that to say it's Paul Baker's time to give us a finance report.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of April. So this is for the fourth month of the period for 2023. So this is a third of the year thus far. General fund sales taxes are very strong yet, 9.8% up compared to last year. Franchise fees were up pretty strong. Building permits were up 16%.
 State turn back was down a little soft, down about 2%. Charges for services are down about 7% at this point in time. Interest income is up as interest rates are up and we're getting some better bond interest. Court fees are up and it's first time they've been up in in roughly three years. So that was a good sign. All in all, I
 The general fund revenue is up roughly 8% for this point in year So we're still looking pretty good in the general fund at this point in time Street funds street funds backed off just a little bit the half-cent sales tax is up 9% But some of the other some of the other revenues are a little softer in total Street fund was up 3% but it's still strong and still positive and
 The parking fees are leveling off just a little bit. They're about 99% of expectations at this point in the year, but it's relatively flat. The parks development fee, that's going strong. That, again, is HMR fees for the parks, and that's up 15% at this point in time.
 uh water and sewer is pretty flat at this point in time as far as billings we're roughly up one percent so we're pretty pretty flat uh at this point in time right now recycling trash collections that we talked about before uh they're down they're down about seven percent in revenue at this point in time remember the transfer station was closed for roughly 60 days the most
 first four months, so about half of the period of time the transfer station was down so that revenue didn't come in. So we're down about 7%, but I'm not concerned about that at this point in time. Fuel sales at the airport is down. They're down 13% in dollars compared to last year. However, we're still showing positive at that point in time, so that's backing off a little bit. But all of them were, at this point in time, I'm satisfied with where we are in revenue, and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Anything? Okay. Well, we don't have any unfinished business, so let's go right on into new business. Number one, a resolution to grant the appeal to Council Member Sarah Moore, Scott Berna, and Teresa Turk and deny conditional use permit CUP 2023-0434-2022.
 short-term rental at 435 North Oliver Avenue and Ward 4. Jonathan, why don't you start us off? Certainly, thank you Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. Allow me a moment to pull up the presentation.
 This property is west of the main University of Arkansas campus in Ward 4. It's about 500 feet northwest of the Razorback Football Stadium that you can see just off screen in the aerial image here to the lower right. It's the third lot south from Maple Street on the west side of Oliver Avenue. The property is developed with a single-family home that currently has four bedrooms.
 The request that was previously before Planning Commission but is now on appeal to Council is to operate the property as a Type 2 short-term rental. As a reminder, Type 2 short-term rentals are those that are intended primarily for short-term rental use. They do not have a permanent resident there.
 The property is zoned RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. So if a conditional use permit were to be issued, it would contribute towards a citywide cap of 2% of our dwelling units being potentially used for type 2 short-term rentals.
 Again, the unit has four bedrooms. How this translates into the number of allowed occupants under our short-term rental ordinance is two visitors per bedroom plus two, allowing a total occupancy of 10 under our short-term rental ordinance.
 Some issues for consideration that staff considered are those of parking adequacy and availability. This particular property has space for three parking spaces off street, so not on Oliver Avenue. Oliver Avenue is a narrow two-lane street that does not allow on-street parking.
 There is an informal pull off in front of the property if you had an opportunity to visit it that looks like it may have been used historically for some manner of on-street parking, but it does not look like it's formal in any way.
 Other issues that staff considered is the concentration of short-term rentals, specifically type two within a quarter mile of this property. Again, that's a metric that the council adopted late last year for the planning commission and staff and the council itself to consider short-term rentals under.
 It is considered to be licensed short-term rentals, however, and so what you see on the map here is the property in question is a red polygon with the only other licensed type two short-term rental immediately to the north. I specify licensed because that is a piece of conversation that has come up with regards to this request and other requests.
 There may be a greater concentration of short-term rentals operating, but if they're unlicensed, it's not something that we can necessarily document on a parcel-by-parcel or address-by-address basis.
 Also, this does not capture type one short-term rentals. Again, if you visited the property, you may have noticed that there was a marking in front of the unit across the street from it, which is licensed as a type one short-term rental, which again, as a reminder, type ones are those with a permanent resident that are periodically rented out as a short-term rental.
 There has been quite a bit of public comment in regards to this request, largely or fully in opposition to it. This falls into a couple of categories, many of which are broad. There's concerns from several neighbors that the neighborhood itself is becoming shorter tenure, whether it's students moving into the area that come and go, or whether it's because of short-term rental properties operating that have resulted in a more transient population in the area.
 As far as specific concerns go, there were noted concerns
 about the parking on the street. Again, Oliver is a narrow two lane street that doesn't allow on street parking. So any parking that this residents would need to accommodate as being part of being a short term rental would need to be onsite. And also the day of the planning commission meeting, it was brought to the staff's attention, concern about a potential violation on the property. The property owner had put down a large amount of gravel in the backyard, basically from the back of the house, all the way up to their Western property line.
 Our engineering group has investigated that. I believe you saw some correspondence in the packet indicating that this does appear to be a violation. Otherwise, staff generally does find the overall request to be consistent with our short-term rental ordinance, and we are recommending in favor of it with a series of conditions. The first, which is a condition of all conditional use permits, and that's a determination that the request is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
 Staff finds that the property's proximity to the University of Arkansas campus and its associated amenities makes it an appropriate place to have this type of property, especially at the concentration that is currently there and a licensed state.
 Other conditions include that are more boilerplate in nature, that a business license also is required and that's where the short-term rental life safety inspections are a part of as a reminder. Also that the property is limited to the number of occupants that I mentioned previously which is 10, two per bedroom plus two, special events being prohibited
 and that the actual use of the property as a short-term rental is limited to the dwelling itself, not pulling trailers in the driveway or RVs or the like.
 When the Planning Commission heard the item, it was approved by a vote of 8 to 1. Those in favor spoke to its proximity to Razorback Stadium. And when it came to discussing the complaint that was brought to their attention at the meeting, again, which came to light immediately before the meeting, there was an expression that the investigation of that could continue independently of whether this permit was approved or not.
 The dissenting vote did have a concern about on-street parking or the lack of available on-street parking and the fact that there aren't any sidewalks present on Oliver Avenue until you get to the north where Maple Avenue offers it.
 Again, this request is on appeal. That means you as the city council are sitting as the planning commission. A vote to approve the appeal would represent a denial of the conditional use permit. I'm available for any questions. And I believe after Council Member Turk is able to speak or any of the sponsoring council members able to speak, Mayor, there is a member of the King family who is available afterwards. So you do have an applicant here? I believe so. Yes. Okay. So after that, what?
 Teresa, what do you all have? I know that there's you and Scott and Sarah. Maybe I can start, Mayor, if you all can hear me okay. Yeah. This street, Oliver, is very narrow. There's no on-street parking. There's no sidewalks.
 There's no on-street parking available on Hossel Street or Maple, which are the two streets that intersect all over on either end.
 There's a type one licensed short-term rental across the street, and then the type two licensed short-term rental at the corner. However, when this came to my attention, I don't live that far away from this residence, from Oliver Street.
 I knew that there were others operating in the neighborhood, and I actually went on Airbnb and was able to find at least seven that are operating and asked for an investigation. I corresponded, I think today, with somebody from the planning department and actually found out that those cases have been closed. I asked why.
 And I was told that the owners had said that they were not going to allow short terminals. Now, my question back to the city, to all of our colleagues, is how are you going to ensure that? How are you going to investigate that? So on a very small street with only 10 dwellings,
 There are actually nine, if you can find total of licensed, unlicensed, type one and type twos, nine short-term rentals already on there. So we have a, I'm bringing this forward because I don't believe the Planning Commission thoroughly understood that there were other unlicensed short-term rentals on that street when they made their decision.
 So I kind of mentioned this many times before, I think we have a serious problem with understanding how many are operating illegally or unlicensed. And so I bring this forward to your attention. I believe that it's completely incompatible with this neighborhood and also the street parking issues that Jonathan mentioned earlier. Okay, Scott, do you or Sarah? I just don't know what she said.
 Just being reached out to by many residents, I kind of echo some of the concerns Teresa put forward, and especially, you know, when it comes, we've had multiple conversations about short-term rentals and had some appeals come forward, and compatibility with the neighborhood, you know, has come up as a concern since we were reached out to by the neighbors in the area. I wanted to have them heard. Okay. Now, we have a representative from the King family, did you say? Yes. What is it?
 Would you like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you for your time. My name is Sean King. My wife and I are very proud of our daughter who will be an Arkansas Razorback softball player. She's going to be a pitcher for them. Based on that, we decided to invest in a home for us during the seasons in the fall season and spring season. We're going to be empty nesters. We intend on living in this being our home, but to help
 defray the cost of an ongoing throughout the year we wanted to have the ability to have some short-term Rental income at times to help with the ongoing cost and that's really all that we're looking for But we everything we do we want to do right and
 We want to do it legal, make sure we go through all the right channels. And we have already contracted a local professional group that handles these services, which is the short-term rentals. It's called COHO.
 They are local and I believe that the CEO of that may have helped in craft some of the rules and regulations They came up when they're trying to put together what short-term rental should be and how they should be and by the way They will not represent anyone who is not short-term I guess approved or whatever you have the license to be able to do so so that's where we are and they will be
 within a 15 to 30 minute ability, if there's any issue, they can be there. They will be there at the house in the events that we're not there. Our daughter's living here for four years. We plan on being long-term residents of this area for a long time. We love it here. We love this town. We love everything about it. And then in addition, we're also...
 putting together a state-of-the-art security system to be able to monitor the exterior of the home, in the front and in the back. Now, along with this and being an Airbnb provider, what we're able to do is we're able to say, no parties.
 We're able to limit the amount of parking that takes place on it. We're able to screen the families that come in. So we will only go with established, highly rated families that will be able to stay. It's our home. This is not just some rental property somewhere else that's not unheard of. This is our home. We want it to be the way it was when we left it.
 So that's that. Now unfortunately, I do have to mention the parking spaces that there are three parking spaces that was noted. However, there can be, if someone stacks, if someone were to stack cars on the driveway, as other neighbors and permanent residents do and have done, it will hold. It's 75 feet deep. It will have, you can put seven cars on that driveway.
 Not all needed for Airbnbs. Airbnbs are almost the exact opposite. When people go on vacation, they don't all go to the airport and take seven rental cars. They go together in two cars. And our location is such that people are going to walk. They're going to Uber. They're probably going to Uber from the airport, not even have cars. And that's simply this type of, and the home that we have is a special one.
 A lot of history. The Andells were there for many years, for generations. If anybody paid attention, they had three cars always parked there. When I came with our realtor, we parked the fourth, the fifth, and our rental car. Six cars in that driveway. Now, that's that. So I don't agree that this Airbnb creates this whole big parking issue. But we have adequate parking. There's seven can be on that driveway.
 IN ADDITION TO THAT, NOT BECAUSE IT'S NEEDED FOR THAT, BUT MY WIFE AND I, WE WANTED TO HAVE ADDITIONAL PARKING.
 moved back the we went back and created a stone wall and Had reclaimed basically land to have two additional parking spaces directly in front of the home So this stone wall was was put together We had this paid for not at all for any thought that any Airbnb need would need to be that way but we have friends that want to see my daughter play and
 And we want to be able to have the parking for them. So when they do come, we want it to be there. So we have seven, eight, nine that actually can park. So we believe that we have more than adequate parking for what is needed for this home. So that is that around the parking side of things.
 I really also wanted to just call out in terms of the density. I don't think that unlicensed, what people are doing illegally, should be considered here. I think we're trying to do this, we are doing this the right way and we really believe that if someone's doing something wrong that should be addressed. It shouldn't penalize us trying to do the right thing and trying to, again, have some short-term rental income for our family to help with this investment that we've put together for us. Again, this is
 going to be a place that we'll be living and we want to share it and share this community with others. So when people come and stay, they can stay in that very special home that was built in 1906 and they're able to come in there and enjoy Fayetteville. The city will benefit.
 local businesses benefit, local restaurants for them, people that are staying in there, they're going to be walking, they're going to be... All of that. The tax dollars I heard earlier, there's these short-term rentals and when we get income, that's taxed. So that goes to the city.
 So I really want you guys to say no to this appeal and really allow us to do this. I understand that there's been concerns brought about, and I think that maybe they just had a misperception of what it is that we're doing and what's going on, but I hope that you guys will uphold, I guess I don't know what it's called, but allow our short-term rental for our family on this property at 435 North Oliver. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 Alright, do we have any questions for the staff or the applicant from the council? No, we'll get to the public comment. You'll have five minutes and you can lay it out for us. If there's no questions, then we will take some public comment. Thank you.
 Can I ask one question? Yes, you can. They were talking about the gravel in the backyard. Yes. What was that situation? I haven't heard anything. No one has brought anything to our attention. I'm shocked. But we are doing a complete turf, artificial turf, in that backyard to make it very nice. There was a lot of problems with drainage and a lot of things that happened with the grass and moles and everything. So we went through and all that gravel is just a subset of what has to be put under the artificial turf.
 But it's beautiful, and we're doing the same kind of turf in the front. It's getting renovated right now, but it's going to be a beautiful property. Okay. Mr. King, is this gentleman part of your team? No, no, sir. Well, he is with, I talked about the Coho, who's the company that's local and professional. I'm just trying to get all this straight in my head. All right. Sure.
 Don't bring him up. You get the chance to speak and get five minutes. Okay. When we do public comment. Okay. Thank you. Now, do we have any other kind of questions? All right. Let's go ahead and take some public comment. Now, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Please stay on the topic.
 Please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us first?
 Hi, everyone. My name is Jordan Russell. I'm a licensed realtor in the state of Arkansas and also a business developer for Coho B&B properties. We're a local short-term rental manager here in northwest Arkansas. So I just wanted to speak in support of Sean and his property and just, you know, hopefully help alleviate some of the concerns that the community may have.
 We are, like Sean mentioned, a 100% professional management company. We have the capacity to limit any potential disruption to the community. If there's any issues whatsoever that ever occur at the property, we can be there within, I would say, 30 minutes or less.
 and to handle the issue, solve the issue with the guests. We have employees on call 24 seven to be able to answer any concerns that may come up. And I do encourage anyone in the community that may have any issues or concerns to give us a call if any of those do arise, if this ends up getting moved forward and he's allowed to use his properties as short-term rental.
 Another thing that I just wanted to mention is one thing that we take into consideration when we're qualifying a property for our portfolio, because we don't just take on anything, one thing that we do consider is adequate parking. Because if the property doesn't have adequate parking, that causes issues with our operations team. If the community is calling us, that causes our operations team issues. So we want to make sure there's plenty of adequate parking for our guests. That helps with guest experience as well as minimal disruption to the community around
 them. We also, like Sean mentioned, we want to do things right as well. We want to make sure that we're following the rules and getting our properties licensed. None of the properties in our portfolio are unlicensed. Every single one of them are licensed. We want to make sure that we're keeping it that way and abiding by the rules set in front
 So yeah, I just hope that you guys would understand where we're coming from from that and hopefully knowing that the properties will be managed by a professional manager. Hopefully that helps alleviate some of the concerns because we can handle any issues that ever arise at the property within minutes. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to speak to us on this? Thank you, Mayor Jordan, City Council Members. My name is Barbara Fraley and I live at 1624 West Hossel Road which is around the corner from the Oliver Street property we're discussing.
 I'm here tonight to ask that the conditional use permit for that address be denied.
 Based on the city code, the property does not have adequate parking for 10 people or adequate adjoining property. Our neighborhood is posted on all the streets for no street parking and the stadium parking lot, which was suggested in one of the planning documents, is not for public use. And I drive by this property multiple times a week. It's narrow in there and I appreciate the idea that you could put that many,
 You know cars in that park in that driveway, but I don't think that that's realistic There's 12 properties in this block one type one rental and one type two that are licensed STRs There's three student rentals and two properties that contain six to seven unlicensed STRs and out of the 12 houses that only leaves three properties with full-time federal residences
 It's important as the city grows that we maintain the vibrancy of our established and existing neighborhoods and not allow them to be eroded. Each neighborhood is unique.
 The citywide 2% for the STRs will create an unequal impact, particularly in the neighborhoods near the University, the downtown area, and the entertainment districts. Neighborhoods need to be considered individually. I ask that you deny the conditional use permit for 435 North Oliver. It is not compatible with the existing neighborhood. Thank you for your consideration.
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossel Road in Fayetteville in Ward 4. And I'm opposed to the short-term rental, any more short-term rentals in the neighborhood, in this case at 435 North Oliver Avenue. I'm sympathetic to the King family. I can see their point of view. But for our neighborhood, you know, according to the Unified Development Code, we're going
 Short-term rentals and residential zoning districts may be subject to denial based on issues in any one of four areas. It doesn't have to be issues in all four areas, but in any one area. And in this case, there are issues in three of the four areas.
 which multiplies the problem. So for one thing, there is not adequate parking infrastructure. The driveway officially can hold a maximum of three people, and we just drove by what they tried to add two more parking spots along the road by moving the yard over a little bit. Well, we're able to park in one of them. A small car can fit in one of them. The other one, no...
 car could fit in, maybe a motorcycle could fit in it.
 Anyway, so, and also our streets, because of its historical nature, we don't have, a lot of them don't have sidewalks and they're very narrow. So Oliver, Gray, Maple, and Hossel, very narrow streets without sidewalks on either side. And parking is prohibited on both sides of the street. And in the past, there have been numerous complaints about illegal street parking on Oliver and in our neighborhood as a whole.
 It just goes on and on this illegal parking. So that's one of the first two issues in code that are of concern. The third one is that there is too great of frequency or concentration of nearby short-term rentals and this 2%
 limit that the city has. I don't think you can just limit it to the licensed short-term rentals. I mean, short-term rentals are short-term rentals, whether licensed or not, and Fayetteville doesn't have enough regulations on short-term rentals and even can enforce the regulations, and so they just continue existing regulations.
 So, if you just would read the letter of appeal, we do have statistics in there about the number of short-term rentals, especially on Oliver, and I'm sure you've heard of more illegal short-term rentals
 Anyway, let me go on to, let's see. When I looked at the Airbnb website today, there were at least 20 short-term rentals in our neighborhood, which kind of goes from Nettleship to Weddington between Razorback and Seng. There were at least 20 short-term rentals, and since the city limits the density of short-term rentals to 2 percent.
 This is enough for our neighborhood. If 20 is 2% of our neighborhood, then there would be 1,000 homes here in the neighborhood, but there are much less. So University Heights has already met its fair share of the 2% density of short-term Reynolds and even surpasses it.
 And, you know, I was thinking it's only fair to share the pain of problems in our city. For example, the problem of gentrification. We don't want to force this problem on a few neighborhoods. Likewise, we don't want to force the problem of too many short-term rentals on a few neighborhoods. In addition, we believe that short-term rentals, those people that signed on to the letter of appeal,
 in the neighborhood, a lot of in the neighborhood in general. We believe they're not compatible to our University Heights neighborhood and its historic nature of owner-occupied residences.
 And I hope you have read our letter of appeal that summarizes some of its really cool history. And the need for permanent housing options is currently more important than ever with our rapidly growing population. And short-term rentals take away from the market. And as this request is being considered, University Heights is being evaluated for nomination as a historic district.
 And many of the historic qualities are still present in University Heights, even as the farmsteads have developed into neighborhoods with many houses in many styles and in many price ranges. And in summary, short-term rentals are incompatible with the historic character of the neighborhood. So the University, just to summarize some things I've said, the University Heights neighborhood has carried the burden of short-term rentals past the 2% limit.
 um it's just only fair to time okay thank you all right who else would like to address us okay you have one on zoom okay go ahead can you hear me yes this is robert stafford in ward one uh uh 527 south sherman um i don't really have a dog in this fight but i keep hearing people bring up the fact that there's a lot of
 illegal and non-licensed Airbnbs in the area or short-term rentals in the area. I surely hope, we got to encourage people to do the right thing. And I believe these people are doing the right thing. And like I said, I don't have a dog in the pipe, wherever you vote, vote the way you're going to vote. But please, in your consideration, do not consider those illegal short-term rentals
 Reynolds, because you're just encouraging that when you do that and you're rewarding bad behavior and punishing good behavior.
 So as you all consider this, just keep this in mind. We want everybody to be licensed. We want wherever we have short-term rentals, we want those short-term rentals to be creating tax revenue, not people skirting the laws, not paying taxes, not getting their properties permitted correctly. So again, just please...
 Don't take the illegal units into account. Shut down the illegal units or make those people go through the same hoops that everybody has to be supposed to go through.
 But I think it's wrong and rewarding bad behavior and punishing good behavior to take to take those legal short term rentals into consideration when deciding how to vote on this issue. And that's that's my only point. I'm not I understand, you know, I understand our housing crisis and everything. So, again, I don't have a dog in this fight. But again, just on that one point, I think is kind of important. Thank you.
 You don't have anyone else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I tend to agree with Robert. Go ahead, Scott. Oh, sorry. Who was it? I just wanted to say I tend to agree with Robert with the public comment. I think if we're going to consider these other conditions that were mentioned or these other issues that were mentioned, we can do that, but I don't think that we should consider the illegal units. Okay, Scott.
 I signed off on this appeal because I have done this for short-term rentals and against short-term rentals. And I did it because I believe people should have a voice in the situation. In this case, though, the last caller, I think, hits the nail on the head in the fact that we can't hold someone –
 We can't hold someone that's trying to do right to a standard that we're not holding people that are not doing it right to. Close down the ones that are not doing it right. But this particular case, they're doing everything they're supposed to do. And as we sit here tonight, the rules are in place that he is following.
 Do we want to adjust those rules and change those rules and strengthen those rules? Yes, and we're going to start that process tomorrow night. But as we sit here right now, he's done everything that he's supposed to do, and I won't be supporting the appeal. Okay. Sarah? Yes. I just want to kind of reiterate some of the comments that have already been made.
 I feel like these people are trying to do the right thing. They've already gone through the process that we have in place and been granted a permit by the Planning Commission and I don't feel like we can fault them for what they have not done yet.
 wrongs that they have not done. They have not, you know, they're not parking on the street. They're not, you know, as far as I know there there is no problem with the parking as it is right now. But we're saying well, let's don't allow this because of what might happen. Well, I don't, I'm not omnipotent. I don't know what's going to happen. So, but I feel that that's not the right way to look at this and
 I am concerned about the number of short-term rentals we have in Fayetteville. I really, really am. But as Scott said, what we have on the books today, these people are doing the right thing. They've applied the right way. They've been granted. And to say that there are too many short-term rentals and to lump the non-licensed short-term rentals in with the licensed short-term rentals, I think is really...
 And if we have people that can go through and look up on Airbnb and count the number of unlicensed short-term rentals, why aren't they going after those people instead of trying to go after someone who is trying to do the right thing and get the permit and that sort of thing? You know, I feel like if you've got the time to do that, you have the time to say,
 Hey, well, I found five unlicensed short-term rentals on my street. Let's get on this. And that's the way I would look at it. If you find an unlicensed one, you know, call the city on them. So that's just my take on it. And, you know, this will be changing. Our policy will be changing, and I welcome that change. But right now, we have what we have on the books, and I'm going to not support this appeal. Thank you. Okay. All right.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. If I could ask a question of the gentleman who works for CoHost. It's a simple, straightforward, how does your company, if I may ask, how does your company handle the collection and remittance of HMR taxes to the city of Fayetteville?
 So that would probably be a better question for our accounting team, but I know we definitely do remit all the sales taxes on behalf of our partners, and we submit that to the city at the end of each month. As far as the exact process in which that happens, I'm not 100% positive. I'm a business developer. I don't work in the accounting. Sure. Is it a part of a homeowner's contract with you that they will, you will subtract that from the fees, I'm assuming,
 Customers pay you and you then actually pay the homeowner is what I'm assuming. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you Sorry
 I just want to thank Barbara and Lisa for coming out and voicing your concerns. I think you bring up some really good things that I think that the ordinance review needs to look at. The short-term rental ordinance needs a lot of work. And so just up for notes, and I'm sure everyone already took the notes that's on the team of the ordinance review, but narrow streets, we heard sidewalks.
 It's already no parking on the street. So those are three things. And then the fourth thing, geography. And because we have the same thing in Ward one. But those four things we just got to consider because it's a serious real thing. So other than that, you know, they're really following the law. They're following the rules. And so we can't really
 um as we've already heard so i'll i'll probably um be you know in favor of of the king families following the rules because i appreciate that they are doing the right thing so thank you all for coming out mayor council member turk has had her hand raised okay go ahead theresa thank you all um
 You know, I, my point about the Planning Commission is if they had understood that there were these illegal or unlicensed short terminals operating in the area, they may have denied this permit initially.
 Sarah there are lots of people trying to get the city to deal with the unlicensed short-term rentals as you all know you supported the contract a couple of weeks ago so hopefully this third-party contractor will actually get in there and identify those it's very easy to go on Airbnb and find out where these unlicensed short-term rentals are operating
 so i think the planning commission may have made a different decision understanding that there was a huge concentration of licensed and unlicensed short terminals i commend the king family for trying to do the right thing absolutely but um that's uh i believe that that a short-term rental on this street is incompatible with our existing code right now with our existing considerations
 And while they're trying to do the right thing, you know, there's no parking on the street. It's already very dense in there. There's been lots of issues with illegal parking by others. So this is an ongoing situation. And I really...
 I hope that the Ordinance Review Committee will really dive deep into this and figure out the additional regulations that need to be passed so that we can get a handle on these short-term rentals and get more licensed. Absolutely. Because right now we're not even giving them a slap on the wrist. We're just saying get in compliance. And so it allows a lot of others to continue to remain unlicensed.
 So I will be obviously voting for the appeal, which will be to deny the CUP. Okay. Sarah? Okay.
 I acknowledge and appreciate each of my colleagues with what they've shared tonight, and it's been a frustrating point, I know, for all of us for short-term rentals, both residents alike and the council. There was a lot of uncertainty with what was going to happen in the state legislature, which kept us from being able to make any changes. I really...
 kind of fixate on that compatibility. I'm really thinking about, as I've talked to residents over the last several months who have really expressed major concern about our community and the fact that we have the ever-increasing rates on short-term rentals and whether or not something is compatible when it does kind of tear at the fabric of the community of our different neighborhoods.
 And I really, again, apply that we're trying to follow the rules. And I agree that I don't want to hold that against you that there are unlicensed. But I really feel like I'm going outside of that just by really acknowledging that our community has said
 know we're really concerned about increasing the number of short-term rentals in this community in particular these neighbors are really expressing some concern and so I'd like to take that into consideration tonight for that reason I will support the appeal tonight okay do we have a motion second to pass the okay thank you what are the comments do we have and so we need to move move to approve the appeal
 Is that we move it forward? Yes, you just if you want to approve the appeal and deny the conditional use, then you would vote yes for the resolution because that's what the resolution says. Right, but even to move it forward, we still need to say we move to approve the appeal. That way it can go to vote. So I move we approve the appeal. Second.
 We need a second here. Okay. Second. All right. And just keep in mind, a yes vote is for the appeal. Right, Kit? That's correct. And it would remove the current conditional use, and it would not be allowed. All right. Is everybody okay? Kip, would you please call the roll? Burnett? No. Bunch? No. Herb? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Harvey? No.
 Yes Jones no more yes, we did her No resolution fails, okay All right. Let's go on to number two a resolution to approve funding of two hundred thousand dollars to develop an arts and cultural master plan and to approve a budget just Some Thank You mayor
 Yes, so I'm bringing this forward because we had discussed many years back in the kind of in a as we knew the arts corridor was going to come online that do we come up with a master plan first or do we come up with the arts and culture director first.
 We went forward with our director so that we could decide to bring have someone to oversee the plan and so therefore We move that forward Well now we're kind of getting closer and closer to the corridor and so we need to come up with our plan of how we're going to Administer that and all of the arts and culture Items that we have coming online as we know that's a big part of the fabric of Fayetteville people come here to enjoy arts and culture
 And so we want to make an opportunity to make a very intentional plan. At this point I'd love to just pass it over to our arts and culture director so she can just give us a quick recap. We did get a full presentation at agenda session but she's just going to cover a couple of
 a couple things and I don't know if we need to do that as a 10 minute thing or whatever. I think that will be up to you, Sonya, if you want to do it for 10 minutes. So whenever, yes, and hopefully she's going to be very brief.
 Yes, thank you Mayor and thank you Council members. I'm happy to share just a quick brief recap of what Arts Council shared with you all last week. A little bit about why we need an arts and culture plan in our city. Forgive me as I just sort of set this all up. Can you all see the screen? Yes, ma'am. Great, that's perfect.
 Excellent. So you might be asking, first of all, why arts and culture? And obviously the arts and culture sector in Fayetteville plays a vital role in our local economy and our community's vibrancy. We have a history of having
 art and culture as a part of Fayetteville's DNA. As in a general sense, public art in particular can humanize the built environment, energize public spaces, enhance a community sense of shared identity and stimulate investment attracting visitors and job creators to a specific area like our city.
 So as you can see from this timeline, Fayetteville has a strong history of supporting the arts, almost from its founding, but sort of speaking to the modern era, going back to 1992, when the collaboration between the City of the University and the Walton Family Foundation created the Walton Arts Center, that was sort of a landmark moment. And then sort of over the last 20 years, there have been moments where we have noted a need to sort of invest and pay special attention to the arts and culture sector.
 As early as 2004, the downtown master plan cited municipal action to foster the arts and culture ecosystem. And this commitment was further reinforced in 2007 with the establishment of the Arts Council. And then arts and culture consistently featured prominently in various city planning documents, including those focusing on economic development and on our welcoming plan.
 This is in addition to the idea that we're creating a cultural arts district with the Ramble project, and we'll be creating connectivity throughout our cultural arts sector. The city's 2040 plan acknowledges cultural resources, but it lacks specific discussion of strategy for the arts and culture sector, and that gap sort of emphasizes the pressing need to invest in this comprehensive plan at this time.
 The creation of an arts and culture plan, as Sonia mentioned, was recommended specifically by the park system master plan adopted this year in 2023. And the creation of the arts and culture division and that arts and culture master plan was sort of identified as administration priority in 2020. When that led to the creation of my position here at the city in 2022.
 So we have some needs and opportunities as the Arts Council shared with you all last week. We have a deep need for some research about our arts and culture sector to find out sort of where our growing edges are. Find out more information about displacement of independent artists in our city and what the economic health of our creative industry and organizations are at this time and how we might build them up for the future.
 And also sort of we need to sort of do a deep discussion and sort of a broad look at what municipal support for the arts might look like. What are best practices in the field? What are the recommendations that we can learn and glean from people who have been through plans like this before? And that is why we need sort of a plan, a strategic plan to gather that research.
 as well as sort of make recommendations on those policies and programs.
 Specifically speaking to the budget that we're requesting through Council Member Harvey's resolution, $200,000 will help develop that master plan that will strategically enhance and support the sector. And in order to do that, we will engage the qualified consultant to conduct research, facilitate public meetings, collaborate with city staff and stakeholders to develop strategies tailored directly to Fayetteville.
 So our hope is that we'll have a comprehensive plan aligning with our city's vision and priorities and slotting right into the 2040 plan when that is next updated.
 This dedicated plan will provide clear direction for investing in all of the arts, promoting creativity in our city and nurturing the cultural diversity. With a master plan like this, we will position Fayetteville as a leader in the region, as only Rogers has a plan in place to date.
 And thanks to our Municipal Arts Alliance partnership with the Creative Arkansas, the community, Arkansas Creative Hub and Exchange, the Municipal Arts Alliance there, we know that plans will be created for Bentonville and Springdale over the next two years.
 So regarding budget rationale, looking at our peer city Rogers, we know that they spent about $100,000 on their plan in 2019. And our aspirational peer city of Charlotte, North Carolina contracted in early 2022 for a very comprehensive plan, which cost their city about $480,000.
 So we have intentionally scoped the RFP for this proposal to be slightly more intensive, slightly more community driven and collaborative than Rogers, but less broad than Charlotte's. So with that in mind, we will have a plan that will, you know, enhance the opportunities for resource allocation, identify opportunities and strengthen Fayetteville's cultural landscape for the next, for decades to come would be the hope.
 I'm happy to take questions from my staff, where I know that Devin Howland is also prepared to speak to economic impact if there are questions regarding that. Thank you all so much for the time. Okay. Sonia, do you have anything to add? I don't. Thank you, Joanna, for that very comprehensive recap. Okay. What questions does the council have on this? I don't have any questions, but I would like to say I really appreciate the...
 the detail of the two cities, Rogers and Charlotte, and being able to say that this is one city in our region and another kind of peer city and how they both approached a similar research. So thank you. Anything else? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those that are present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. I think this is a fantastic idea and I hope you will support it. The timeline from the presentation.
 was a good reminder that it hasn't been that long ago that there was really only one show in town for the arts. And I appreciate that this will help us all get on the same page with a cultural framework of policy that reminds us that it's not just
 the arts experience, but also the local producers of art, and that we have a diverse array of communities here in Fayetteville that produce art specific to their groups, and that we have to honor all of those, and make sure that we give everyone the opportunity to help us build the arts here in Fayetteville. Thank you for your support on that, and I hope you vote for this. Thank you, Cal.
 Who else would like to address us? Do we have anybody on Zoom? We do. Robert Stafford. Okay, Bob, go ahead. Howdy, can you hear me? Yep. Great. Robert Stafford, Ward 1, 527 South Sherman Avenue, and a member of the Fayetteville Arts Council. I was lucky to be able to present to y'all
 last week with our chair and vice chair. And I think most of you were there and able to see that presentation. And so myself and I know the rest of the Arts Council strongly support this and I hope you pass it. And I think that this, you know, if we look back for the last two decades, pretty much every plan, every study, every consultancy,
 I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question.
 And I think it'll be a great tool for the city, for Joanna to do her job, for Devin to do his job, and for the Arts Council to do our job. So again, I strongly support this. I can't emphasize that enough, and I hope it passes, and thank you for your time. There's no one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, then I'm going to bring it back to the Council. What discussion would the Council like to have, or what action would the Council like to take?
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. Move the motion to second to pass resolution. Any final comments? Karen, would you please call the roll? Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number three. A resolution authorized the mayor of the city of Federal to purchase real estate to be returned to the NWA Black Heritage Association for restoration, redevelopment, and advancement to the African-American community and to the vibrant, thriving district it was meant to be.
 Sonia, I believe this is you and DeAndre. Yes, it is. DeAndre, would you like to go first? I want to go first. You want me to go first, okay. I have the honor to have the NWA Black Heritage Group bring this to me and DeAndre.
 And I have prepared some words. I usually don't write something, but it's such an important item that I decided to write something. So it's very short. How can we say yes? I ran for office on several core platforms, one of which was bringing voices to the table that were missing. This resolution is the unedited, authentic voice of generations of Black families in Fayetteville.
 i made no changes to it when i received it in preparing for becoming an official resolution city attorney blake pennington also made no content changes you're you're seeing it as as it was provided so i want to thank blake for that how can we say yes the city council received a memo on the unconstitutionality of the resolution
 and while i recognize city attorney kit williams duty to identify matters that could bring harm to the city kit and all everyone here i ask you to take only a few seconds just a few and imagine yourself as a black person
 living at Spout Spring, which if you don't know what Spout Spring is, we're talking about just behind, just near Willow Heights. I want you to take just a few seconds and I'm going to count them. During the time, I'm going to reread that part. Imagine yourself as a black person living at Spout Spring during a time when that area was known as, and I quote, nigger holler.
 That was the name of your neighborhood called by the general known public. How can we say yes? As a council member and friend, I ask you to identify your defenses as they may arise, as mine did. I invite you to consider and practice this bit of Toltec wisdom if you don't already do it, which you may. Don't take anything personally.
 How can we say yes? I will now conclude my very short introductory remarks, as it is not my voice that we're here to amplify, but rather the voices of Black families in Fayetteville. Thank you, excuse me, thank you Council Member Harvey. I echo exactly what she said and
 I know that this is a very sensitive topic. And today, I had the honor, the opportunity and the honor to be interviewed with the news. And I did state that this is a sensitive topic. I want to acknowledge Kit and his work. And I know that Kit's job is to protect the city. And I really appreciate that. And as a council member and as a citizen of Fayetteville, I will never do anything to jeopardize Fayetteville. However, there are some factors. And one...
 When I was elected, I remember standing in the yard of Loretta Carr. And they are family. They've lived in Fayetteville for years. And I remember hearing, this is the very first time that someone is actually coming to our neighborhood. This is the first time that someone actually is paying attention to what we're asking for. And I thought about that.
 every day and then I think about the work that the black Preservation Committee is doing and I remember last year sitting in the Fayetteville Public Library hearing about these stories of African-Americans and the situations that think that they've had that the things that they've had to overcome and then I hear stories about how wonderful Fayetteville was for our
 Several people who were not African American told me that Fayetteville was such a great place to live. Back in the 60s and the 50s, there was no racial tension. I hear from black citizens that that wasn't the case.
 I continue to hear of the challenges that African Americans face, and with me being African American, with me being black, of course, you know, that's very dear to me. I will say this, Fayetteville has been very, very, very progressive, more progressive than a lot of other cities, and I know that there is a... People talk about being woke, but I call it having compassion, having empathy, things that we all want.
 Mayor Jordan, I will never forget the very first time that I came into your office was in 2016, and there was a banner that hung on Dixon Street, and I'm sure many of you remember that banner, Black Lives Matter, and I remember the stance that you took, and we were so impressed with the stance that you took, because you took a stance that when we went to another city to talk to another mayor, they didn't even consider that, and I'm aware of some of the comments that
 being bullied, people saying horrible things. But when that happened, Fayetteville continued to grow. No one was hurt. People may have been uncomfortable.
 but no one was hurt. Then I think about all the black history events that we did, and Fayetteville was the only city in the state of Arkansas to officially declare a black history celebration. Then it brings me to August of 2020, and I respectfully, Councilmember Harvey, Councilmember Bunch, Councilmember Turk, and Councilmember Smith,
 Mayor Jordan were present at one of the longest City Council meetings that I remember and I remember that Fayetteville voted The only city in the state of Arkansas and in the South to declare racism to be a public health crisis I remember Mayor Jordan meeting with Ravencook, Lentz and myself in his office Telling us about his commitment to address racial injustice subsequently starting the African American Advisory Council and their work and
 out of, because of their work, the city council adopted racism as a public health crisis. And then I remember having meetings with Chief Reynolds. And one of the biggest issues, of course, was African Americans being arrested for marijuana more than any other group. And we were able to solve that problem. So there's the, in Fayetteville, there has been...
 Time and time again, every challenge as it relates to race, we've been able to work together. We've been able to collaborate. I do know, again, and I fully, fully, fully respect Kit, as always. Kit is an attorney. I'm not. And he's looking out for the best interest of Fayetteville, and so am I. However, I cannot help but continue to echo what Councilmember Harvey has said. Put in yourself.
 in our shoes. I'm not originally from Fayetteville, but I do know I'm all too familiar with the challenges that African-Americans face. And if you're not African-American, there is no way that you can feel what I feel. But I do believe, as you've done before,
 that You can have empathy and that you can understand why this is so valuable to the African American community and not just to Fayetteville because I believe that when we live from the bottom everyone in our community rises and I believe that the majority of people in Fayetteville believe so because we will next week we will be celebrating Nelson Hackett Boulevard and
 And that was contentious and that was controversial and so many people didn't think that it was going to happen. It's happening. And I know that I can't stress this enough, and it's unfortunate that everyone doesn't... will not see it and will not understand. And there are people that just don't want to see it and that don't want to understand. And that's unfortunate, but those that do, I encourage you to please. It's not about me.
 It's not about me. It's about the African-American community. It's about racism. It's a public health crisis. It's about making sure that Fayetteville continues on the path of progression. And I was absolutely humbled and delighted to help bring this forward. I was a little nervous at first. I was. We talk about political capital. Do you want to spend your political capital on such a, what could be such a...
 such a controversial topic, absolutely, that's my responsibility. I made that promise to Fayetteville citizens, and that is one promise that I'm going to deliver time and time again. Sharon Killian has worked in our community, and she is, her organization, they have really informed us and educated us. I remember back in January, she stood right there, and she described some situations.
 that happened in the past. And we can't change the past, but we all know what we can do. We can repair the harm that's been done. We can't deny it, we can repair it. And I think that's what this is about tonight. It's about finding a way to repair the harm that was done. And I don't want anyone to feel like I'm calling them out. And I certainly don't want anyone to feel pressured, but I do want you to have empathy. And so to my peers on the city council,
 The ball is in your court. I do believe that we can find a way to do the right thing. Thank you. Thank you. Now, I understand that you all have Sharon Killian that would like to give a presentation. Yes, she's here tonight. How long do you? I think 10 minutes. Okay. Yeah, 10 minutes. Okay, Sharon. Thank you. Yeah, my name is Sharon Killian.
 Good evening. Mayor Jordan LaFantle, City Council body, municipal staff and the community in attendance here today. Since I'm stumbling just a little bit, please help me by giving me a little leeway to that 10 minutes because I practiced. They can give you more time. Thank you. That's up to them. Thank you so much. I want to thank
 Council Members DeAndre Jones and Sonia Harvey, who have brought NWA Black Heritage's request forward to the Council today. I also want to thank Britton Bostic of the City of Fayetteville for her work on heritage and long-range planning for our residents and the visitors to our region. And I want to thank all of you for your work on behalf of equity and justice. I speak today in support of this proposal
 authorizing our mayor to work towards saving some of the black history in our town from erasure, disappearance from our lives, and from the lives of future residents throughout our entire region. Over the generations, African American residents along with allies have struggled to stop the erasure of the last black community in Fayetteville. In fact, this is the last black community
 in all of northwest Arkansas. This slide shows where some of the owns, in fact the slide that was just up, showed some of the homes owned by black residents where they were located in 1904. So go back for me, would you? The yellow thumbtacks are all the families that were recorded
 the city directory there are over 272 families on that map they the blue mark at the top the north goes out to Lafayette and the one to the east at the top corner there that is that is Fletcher because we're on Fletcher and
 And all the way over, you can see that major path north-south is College Avenue. And then where the green school building is, is MLK. So history is prologue, it said. I'd like to work with you to create a better direction for some of our efforts. This proposal is directed at reimagining our future, not dwelling on past.
 But how we got here is important, and I want to spend a few moments focused on that as background. Now slide two please. I've read many city documents, including the 1945 City Master Plan and its reaffirmation in the 1968 Fayetteville Program for Community Renewal, up to recent communications.
 Each document, each memorandum, each footnote reflects a general lack of understanding of the lives of Black people living in this town for the past 200 years. Spouts Spring Branch is the last of these Black communities left in our entire region. When we read that plan and remember that the principles laid out therein were affirmed as recently as in the 2040 Master Plan,
 you'll find that the last remaining black community was being assessed and its destiny laid bare. For example, the 1945 plan was explicit about the location of parks. A Negro park, and I quote, should be developed for the Negroes of the city. When two races are mixed in a neighborhood, all property losses, loses value. The 10 acres selected to move them to,
 would serve the Negro population for recreation, school, and church facilities. Suggestions are being made for a Negro housing project. The proposal was to herd black people into a 10-acre tract farther to the south. For decades, the black community fought against relentless marginalization and erasure by churches,
 developers, individuals believing races should not be treated equally, and by our municipality. Though the community was not destroyed by the proposed highway to run directly through it, the lands have been taken by disenfranchisement, eminent domain, and other tactics. It seems the area is indeed now quite suitable for white-owned houses.
 just not the black ones. We no longer use those explicit words, but some of our decisions are motivated by the same underlying attitudes. Some of you may know I worked with a very large coalition of black families, churches, and businesses attempting to obtain the Jefferson School as an anchor to this last remaining black neighborhood, Spout Spring Branch. Instead, the Jefferson School was sold by the school board
 on favorable terms to a white group. This was a setback for us. Some of you may know that this Black historic neighborhood has been removed from the city's official maps. Did you hear me? It's been removed from the city's official maps of neighborhoods and subsumed under other nearby white-led developments such as SoFay and the Washington Willow Historic District. While the Black community has been removed from the city maps,
 Both of these entities have increased the reach of their borders. An affirmative decision to mitigate this public health emergency by our proposal will begin our writing a new chapter in the education and advancement of an entire city. There are many places in this community worth preserving. Much of it has already passed into the hands of white people that saw the opportunity to achieve and acquire a bargain.
 Among those important places, unmarked and unknown even to most of the city's officials, are the first public school in the state of Arkansas, the Henderson School. That was on Olive Street. There are Green Book sites here that provided safe harbor for the likes of Louis Armstrong, George Haley, Alex Haley, and Black families who took in Silas Hunt and others.
 While students at the U of A who could not stay in campus housing or in any lodging houses on Maple Street, James Cortez Hoover was a well-known leader, hospitalist and World War I veteran in this community who could only get a position as a janitor at Fayetteville City Hospital despite his skills at bone setting and his care for patients for decades. The hospital ward that was named in his honor is gone
 and it seems all signage recognizing him has gone as well. His daughter, Teresa Hoover, was the chief executive officer of the General Board of Global Ministries at the United Nations. James Cortez Hoover's granddaughter and co-founder of NWA Black Heritage. Jen, the ten minutes is up. We gave her some more time. Well, tell me how much more time. I'll read faster.
 Thank you. I'm almost done. Okay. So, okay. Five more minutes. Thank you. Well, Melba Smith, who traveled the world in service of justice with the United Methodist Women, was a co-founder of this organization that I'm with right now, NWA Black Heritage.
 the South African ambassador to France and the United States attended and spoke at her funeral here in Fayetteville. A president sent a proclamation of condolences. These Fayetteville people are people of renown, I'm ashamed to say primarily outside of our city. This is just one family. There are many other significant accomplishments and contributions by the Black people in our town. They and we deserve a better place in our and our future citizens' lives.
 I understand that some look at these past lives of civilians as separate from theirs and perhaps not deserving of recognition. I understand that some look at the lives of our current black residents as separate from theirs. This can lead to thinking that we are not one town, not one village, but a white place that's tolerating black lives under certain conditions. And it certainly leads to making decisions about our present and our future with separateness in mind.
 When we celebrate Black lives, we are not taking anything away from the lives of other people here. We're celebrating the lives of Fayetteville's people. When we recognize a national holiday to honor emancipation of Black people from slavery, we are celebrating the good that this did for white people and brown people and all people by lifting a moral stain.
 our state constitution recognizes that a county city town and other municipal corporation may obtain or appropriate money for a corporation association institution or individual to finance economic development projects or provide economic development services
 our article 12 section 5 item c goes on to describe myriad ways that make this request possible to achieve by our city as an example the city of fayetteville gave four additional acres of our city property to peace at home shelter in 2021 at no additional cost in 2022 six
 $186,500 of our ARPA funds were given to Peace at Home Family Shelter. There are other examples of city intervention for the public good. Councilmember Jones asked everyone to read Resolution 213-20, which was passed by the City Council in 2020. There are directives that have not been approached by the municipalities since inception that we can all agree must be done.
 As I understand it, it is the city's responsibility to begin the work referenced in Section 1. We believe this request is part of the process to stop the critical issue of erasure and eradication of the last black community in Fayetteville and northwest Arkansas and to begin to heal this public health emergency. I appreciate the extra time. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for letting me speak tonight. Thank you.
 Okay. What discussion would the council like to have? We've not got public comments yet. Anybody have any thoughts?
 Okay, well this opened up for public comment everybody gets one turn speak you have a five minute duration Don't engage anyone the public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first And those participating buzz then we'll speak after that who would like to addresses on this topic in the check. Yes
 Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. I'm Tommy Flowers Davis and unlike Sharon and DeAndre, I am a native Fayettevillian. I guess that's how you say it. Born, raised, attended Fayetteville High School, U of A, all of those things. So I'm very familiar with the changes in the community because I lived it and I'm still living it. I can
 sensitive issue for me too. And I just, I know it's a hard agenda item issue for folks to understand, but when I left Fayetteville to attend
 uh to get my masters and there were always people i encountered who said well we didn't know fanville had black people and i could always say yes we lived east of the courthouse and to look at the neighborhood now how it has changed it's hard to say yes we live east of the courthouse there was such a rich history
 that I know for a fact has been lost. There have been a number of occurrences that have happened with just the desire to have that particular event
 part of Fayetteville. And I can remember stories, I can remember going to meetings when there was talk of properties being taken, condemned, and those sorts of things. And I was just so very proud of the community and how they stood together and said, we're not going to sell, we're not going to let the city take our property, whatever we need to do to try and bring it up to code, that's what we're going to do. And they all worked together to do that.
 But over time, of course, things have changed. I'm back in Fayetteville right now because I had to return to deal with some issues that were related to property issues, basically. My mother and my brother both passed in 2017, both left property.
 and I was left to manage that property and really didn't know what I was going to do with the property. So I did develop my brother's property up South Fayetteville and I'm also planning to develop a piece of property on Rock Street and historically my mother tried from 1979
 to develop that piece of property and there were so many obstacles and barriers that prevented her from doing that and she became you know very frustrated with the process she spent a lot of time at the city trying to get permits and so on and so forth and it just did not happen there was a
 by the city to have her property as park space and green space because it is nice. And it's right next to Sprout Springs.
 40 plus years later i'm going to develop that property and i've got a plan of action uh it should i should be starting hopefully this year uh developing her property i think she was just a little before her time but that's a part of what i'm concerned about but the other part is i totally
 support Sharon's resolution. And I haven't seen anyone work as hard as she has to bring all these things forward. And my thing is, when I first came back, I said, well, I'm gonna start talking with my community members about how to keep their homes, how to preserve their homes, what they can do to maybe rehab, look for resources, all those things. And it's just been an uphill battle all the way. And so I'm just hoping that
 As we continue with this dialogue, and I think we need to continue with it because it is considered a public health crisis, as we continue this dialogue, we'll have to look at this as a multifaceted type of issue that we're dealing with.
 because there are aspects of the community that need to be preserved, that need to be recognized. And I think it's up to us to do that. Since I've been back, I've built my project. I'm now a licensed residential contractor, thanks to some very good support that I've had from people in this community.
 And I'm prepared to move forward with whatever I can do to support this resolution, to support bringing some value back to my community. And that's what I wanna do. Tommy, do you need some more time? All right.
 A few minutes, two minutes, three minutes? I think I've said most of what I want to say. I just want us to understand that this is just not a... Two minutes, please. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. I just want us to understand this is not a let's put a few dollars into a few structures. This is a complicated, a complex structure.
 issue that we need to spend some time addressing if in fact we are interested in having some preservation or ability to restore and recognize some of our history, some of the black history in this community. And I am certainly one who's going to be involved with that effort. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening again, Mayor Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. Y'all know me as a nuts and bolts policy guy. This is kind of a heavy emotional topic at the moment, but there is a nuts and bolts policy issue at the bottom of it. And this morning when I was reading through it and reading Kit's memo, I didn't know if I had anything to say tonight. Obviously, I support the intent of this.
 I was unsure about the mechanisms as I read about the constitutional issues with it. Kitt's memo, the Arkansas policy environment, would make it real easy for y'all to vote no on this tonight and just kind of be done with it. But tonight we've also heard the history of Fayetteville's harmful actions to the black community that has made their home here for a century and longer. Past effects,
 still ripple forward and impact people's lives today and while it may be unconstitutional to spend public money for private use now, it was unconstitutional to explicitly segregate neighborhoods and city parks like we did in the 40s. We just didn't know it then. It took court cases and federal law to change that policy landscape. And so if the policy mechanisms confound you tonight,
 like it did for me this morning. There's room to work on that. You'll have the ability to amend the resolution. I think Councilmember Harvey said that this was in its raw form as presented and I appreciate that. It may not be something that the City Attorney's Office feels passes a policy muster, so maybe there's still some work to do, but it is a starting point and I hope that you will hang on to it and work with that.
 Before you take the easy no vote and put this away, pause and ask yourself, like you were asked to, how you could vote yes on the intent of this. What would the policy have to be to achieve the goals
 that are stated here. And that may not be something that you're able to articulate tonight. This may just be the start of a conversation. But I hope it's a conversation that all of you individually and as a group will be urgently engaged in coming to real policies that pass constitutional questions as quickly as you can to take meaningful action here. Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Good evening, Mayor, City Council members. My name is Jamie Lockhart. I live at 1244 North Mission. I just wanted to thank you for considering this resolution and its fundamental underlying principles. Thank you for recognizing Fayetteville's complete cultural heritage, which includes contributions by
 the African American community from Fayetteville's earliest days. I appreciate our planning process that prioritizes all cultural heritage, historic preservation, and cultural inclusion. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. Who else would like to address us? Hi, my name is Laura Phillips and for the next 48 hours I live at 2055 South Klein in Fayetteville
 So this will be the last time I speak to you guys, but this is important. I've said several, several times when I speak before you guys that the alma mater for the University of Arkansas refers to a beacon of hope. And Fayetteville has always been a beacon of hope. Except what we just heard, it wasn't. It was a beacon of hope for this group over here. Councilmember Jones and I had a meal a few weeks ago and we talked about
 Fayetteville is a place that you dream of coming to because you can be yourself here, except you couldn't. It's always been a place where you can do better, where you can go to school and you can get a job and you can live your dreams and you can do better than growing up in West Fork or Joyner or wherever you were, that small town you couldn't get out of. You can come to Fayetteville and do so much better, except you couldn't.
 So we have these dreams that we can give people now, but we've got to look behind and try and fix the stuff that our forefathers, foremothers, whoever else messed up. And that's y'all's job. That's what you're here to do.
 No matter how ugly and sticky it gets, and no matter how uncomfortable it gets, because I'm a cis white woman, and it is uncomfortable to talk about race. Because I don't live that. I have privilege. Y'all have privilege. Some people up there don't have the same privilege I do. People in this audience don't have the same privilege that most of us do. No offense to the white men on this board, but...
 You know, it is the truth. And naming streets is fantastic. That was such a huge step, and I'm so proud of us for doing that. The work that's been done in, you know, caring for some of the slave cemeteries up on the hill, awesome, but you have to do better, and you have to do better by starting with this and then go forward on that. You have to do better by keeping this history alive,
 I had no idea that it had another name. I just knew it by the name that Sonia used. I didn't know about Sprout Springs. I'm sitting with Kyle and I'm Googling it. He's the nuts and bolts guy. I'm not. I'm the, I'm going to get in your face and talk person. But,
 And it's not just Fayetteville. Y'all represent this whole area. I grew up in West Fork, but it was Fayetteville that I went to to go shopping and to go to school and to spend my money. Walt Merck Center was the first time I ever saw anything on stage. So when you turn your back on a history for an entire group of people, you're telling people not just in your town,
 But you're telling people from this whole section that come to your city, that work here, that study here, that spend money here, that spend time here, that they were less than. You've got to do better. You've got to step back and get uncomfortable and listen to the people that know what they're talking about and move forward. I'm going to miss you guys like crazy.
 And I really, really hope that you have the courage and you have the conviction and you are willing to make the uncomfortable choices and learn and move forward and learn from the past and show people that we are a beacon of hope, but we can look behind us and say, we messed that up, but we are going to fix it. And that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else?
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council members. My name is Kim Jansen. I am at 1096 Nelson Drive. I live in this area. I grew up in Willow Heights. I walked past Loretta Carr's house every day on my way to Jefferson School and have since become a product of the University of Arkansas.
 teaching a course on black heritage or black history in northwest Arkansas this fall and this is just a piece of it, right? This is just the beginning of what we as a community need to do to rebuild what we have, sorry I'm so nervous, but just what we have
 gone through and so I just I echo what city council members Harvey and Jones have said um what Sharon Killian said that we are building for our future and yes that does include addressing the past but we're looking towards the future thank you thank you we also like to address this okay mayor you have some zoom oh yeah I was fixing to get to
 We have Simone Cottrell. Hi, can you hear me? Yes.
 Oh, great. Thank you so much. Good evening, everyone. I'm Simone Cottrell, resident of Ward 1. I apologize if my statement is a little all over the place. I was just informed about this resolution maybe an hour ago, and we'll try to hopefully shed some light but also provide possibly a solution or a way forward. In the resolution, it states, whereas by the 2040 master plan adopted in 2019,
 Name of the community was deleted from the city maps with special thanks for engagement efforts given to various entities,
 including the University of Arkansas and the Artist Laboratory Theatre, who conducted community engagement sessions under the guise of supporting Black community needs and desiring their input. In 2018, I was the Director of Outreach with Artist Laboratory Theatre and can absolutely confirm that the methodology and the way that the organization went about collecting information towards the 2040 Master Plan was flawed. It was deeply flawed.
 to the point where the women of color on the staff were repeatedly stating, this is wrong, this is wrong, and white leadership continued onwards anyway. I want to apologize on behalf of myself for any role that I have played to get to this point that we're at right now.
 This should not be the labor of Sharon or the NWA Black Heritage Association to be now picking up this work to preserving and saving their community. What I would like to suggest is for the last two years, I've been working with an organization called Start by Talking out of Atlanta, which is an anti-oppression, anti-violence organization.
 consulting group that does assessments and surveys. It is led by Wanda and Melissa Swan, two black women who are experts in the field of anti-violence. They have hired two recent Harvard graduates who have completely, by themselves, revolutionized the way that we understand assessments and surveys done, including their latest project with the city of Cambridge.
 What I would really love to see and suggest, because we do have the time and we can definitely pause to right the wrong that has occurred to
 to have this flawed information as part of the 2040 plan is to really consider what Sharon has brought forward and really work with a group of people who believe in black feminist theory, liberation theory, and who are doing amazing forward thinking work to right wrongs of spaces and organizations and communities.
 If anyone has any questions about what's happened at Artists Lab Theater, I'd be more than happy to answer as best to my knowledge. Thank you to everyone who's spoken and thank you for listening. Thank you. Robert Stafford. Can I go ahead? All right, can you hear me? Yeah. Great.
 I promise this will be the last time you hear from me this evening. I know we've been speaking a lot. First of all, I want to thank DeAndre Jones and Sonya Harvey, the Northwest Arkansas Black Heritage Association, Sharon Killian for her work and her presentation, and a quick shout out to Laura Bell Phillips. We're losing one of the good ones there. And I don't see her enough, but I'm going to miss the heck out of her. The silence and the lack of conversation,
 Kind of leads me to believe that a lot of minds are made up and that people are probably going to be voting with the law on this. And I understand that. Fayetteville has made a lot of great strides recently. We took a red line street, used to be Archibald Yeld.
 Now it's Nelson Hackett. We're putting a historical marker in the square. That's a great first step. And by redoing Nelson Hackett Boulevard and building new connections, we're erasing that red line. But we can't forget that that red line was there. And I'm worried that we're erasing the red line and reconnecting our city, but at the same time, people are being displaced.
 at a growing and scary rate out of our city. And the black families are the first and probably taking a big brunt of this. Families that have deep roots in our city. I understand the legal argument and I don't know what the answer is. We could put historical markers outside of every Green Book house and we should, every Green Book site. We could take Sharon's map and that blue line and make it a
 The black heritage district, and maybe we should look into that, but that's not going to stop people from being displaced. That's not going to solve the problem. We're in the midst of a huge affordable housing crisis here. We know this. This is fact. Read what the NWA Council's put out for the last, I don't know how many years. I mean, it's fact.
 I don't know the answers, but if you vote with the law tonight, and I understand that, but don't let that be the end of the conversation. Let's let this be the beginning of the conversation. What can we do? Can we create an economic opportunity zone in the area? I don't know. I don't know what the answers are, but I don't want this to say, well, we couldn't do it. Oh, well, and just walk away.
 And it scares me that that's what will happen. So I want each of you to think when you go home, what can we do? How do we keep our families from being displaced, our black families from being displaced, from being forced out of our city? And it's not just the black family, but they are taking the brunt. I mean, it's a lot of the working class families just can't afford it anymore. Rents are outrageous. I know people that are paying twice my mortgage in rent.
 it's ridiculous but again i i don't have a solution and i but again i don't want this to be the end of a conversation i want to be the beginning one and i hope you all do too so thank you thank you you don't have any other zoom okay let's bring it back to the council then what discussion would you all like to have so let's let's get going here um after reading um
 I think I mentioned this earlier. I do know that there are some legal concerns. So one of the things that I'm thinking about is having, being intentional on working on something that we can do based on all the things that we've heard tonight and based on racism as a public health crisis and the commitment to that.
 definitely address those issues. I had a conversation with JL Jennings and one of the things that I feel as if one of the challenges, of course, is proximity. When you don't understand what a person's life is like, I can tell you all day long how I'm feeling, but unless you have the opportunity to walk a mile in my shoes, I don't think that you'll ever get it.
 So, I believe that we do a lot of visits. We go visit, we visit different properties. I'm going to challenge the city council to visit South Fayetteville. I'm going to challenge members of the city council to go visit these, the way we go visit when it's a development issue, proximity. One of the things that we did when I worked in the public school system, we would get
 And we would go look at the neighborhoods. And we went to the wealthier neighborhood, and we were able to understand that. But then we went to the poor neighborhoods, and this is who we were teaching. That made a huge difference because proximity. We were able to understand where they came from. You will never understand the challenges that any culture faces without proximity. So working with the Black Preservation Commission and sharing in a way that you can...
 visit there, sit down and have a conversation, a listening session to hear the concerns, what's actually happening. Tonight, myself and Sharon and a few others spoke, but we talked about a larger conversation. It's time that we become again intentional. And we have individuals who have told me the reason why I don't go talk to the city council because it's not gonna do any good, they don't care. And let's be honest, do we really?
 I mean, if I was not a member of the city council and if I grew up in Fayetteville, I would probably think the same thing because nothing's been done. I mean, we've done a lot of great things that other cities haven't done, and that's great. And that's what we should do. But we've got to do so much more. And African-Americans are not feeling engaged because they feel like many times their voice doesn't matter. When we look at our boards and commissions,
 Are we intentional about recruiting African Americans? When we look at our city hiring, look at our city hiring and are we committed? Are we intentional as it relates to hiring African Americans? African American business owners,
 I'm hearing these stories all the time that we've got some really gifted black businesses, but the city has done absolutely nothing. So people are feeling apathetic. They feel hopeless. And Laura Phillips said it best, a beacon of hope. Are we really that beacon of hope?
 or is it smoke and mirrors? And I don't believe it's smoke and mirrors. I really believe, I believe that once we experience proximity, once we understand truly what the community needs, then we will work with Sharon to make sure that we restore and we repair the harm. So that's one of the things that I am, that's one of the things, working with the Black Preservation Commission and Sharon to do a community tour
 as a council and listen to how the city of Fayetteville has hurt the community. Then let's look at what we can do if we can't do this tonight with all of the legal ramifications. And Sharon pointed to there are things that we have done. There are nonprofits, there are organizations that we have helped. We need to thoroughly examine what can we do to make a difference. What can we do? We have to do this.
 We have to do this. I'm sorry. Okay. We have to do this. And we have all of the, I think we have everything that we need. I don't think there's anything else to wait for. We have the resources. We need the political will to do it. And so, Kit, I don't know what you've been thinking about in terms of what can we do, but I do ask, based on...
 Searen's request and based on what we've done with other groups Have you given any consideration to what we possibly can do? respond I Certainly I have Unfortunately, this is not the right vessel to be able to accomplish what you want to accomplish I am the only person up here who grew up east of the courthouse I walked through this neighborhood along Willow Street up up Rock Street and
 to my elementary schools, rode my bike there, to my junior high school, which was here where the high rise is now. When I was a prosecutor, I worked in the county courthouse and oftentimes I'd walk back through the neighborhood there and stop at Sherman's, which is unfortunately long gone, but it's been replaced by Yvonne Richardson Center, which is good, but I do miss Sherman's because that was kind of a community center.
 And so I'm somewhat familiar with this neighborhood and what has happened. And I can tell you, I share some of the concern when I drive up from Willow up to College behind the courthouse and see all the new houses that are going in there. It's kind of become gentrification. No question about it. And so the houses that have, that were very modest,
 and were occupied by our poorer residents, whether they're black or white,
 have been sold by the owners, I'm sure. They haven't been condemned or anything. They've been sold, but then they've been replaced by modern houses and duplexes and stuff, which is what the city council has said that you wanted to do. Infill and density, and that's exactly what you've been seeing going on in there. And development of South Fayetteville, which has been part of the goals of Fayetteville for back when I was on the council in the 90s and before.
 I don't know how much we did to be able to make that happen, but market forces have taken over. And in fact, there has been tremendous development there, loss of affordable housing and replacement with housing that is nicer but more expensive. What can we do? This particular resolution really does not allow us to do anything.
 the way it has been drafted and its purposes and what it authorizes are simply not legal under our Constitution. However, I would like to work on the front end with council members
 about what we could do. I have ideas about what we could do and I'd like to discuss them with you and try to craft a vessel that will work, that we can authorize, that will be legal, will be constitutional, and yet will accomplish, I think, some of the goals. Now, it's not all the goals. I still don't think we can buy houses and then just give them to a nonprofit for the nonprofit to use.
 That's not going to be allowed and that won't be what I would be proposing, but there are things we can do to, I think, save some of the most important buildings, whether they be a residence or something else. And that's something that I would need to discuss with you all and look at maps and go over and look at the property. We also have to be careful to protect the interests of the people that have been living
 that own those properties that maybe they want to be able to develop their property, just as this other woman said she wanted to do, they have rights too. And we can't just say, oh, we like your old house the way it is, so you can't do anything with it because we're not going to lynch you. But the City Council has one other very strong power, and that's called rezoning. Most of these houses are replacing a single-family house
 with many townhouses or multifamily, and that is a zoning issue. And so if somebody comes in and wants to up zone so that they can do that to fulfill your more dense requirement that you like to have, well if you want to try to save that neighborhood, then you don't agree to the rezoning and upzoning. Instead you want to preserve the single-family house that's there.
 So, that's another power that the City Council has without spending money, without doing anything but having the vision to say, do we really want to have this entire neighborhood go into a modern neighborhood and not have any of the historic houses remain? So, there are things we can do, but unfortunately this resolution is not what we can do.
 And I really appreciate Sharon's presentation. And I learned some things, Sharon, that I had not heard before, even though I grew up in Fayette. And my family goes back to 1910 in Fayetteville. But I learned things I hadn't known from your presentation, especially about the city master plan in 1945. But anyway, I think there, I would say that this should not be passed tonight, because it is simply unconstitutional.
 That should not be the end of the story. I think there is important information that we learned tonight, and I think there are things we can do, but what I'd say is if you want to keep it legal and constitutional, you need to include the attorneys in at the front end so we can say, well, you can do this or you can't do that. That way, when it comes back to the city council, you'll know that it's a policy argument then. It's a policy issue then and not a legal one.
 Tonight, unfortunately, I can't recommend this, and I really don't see a way to amend this to make it potentially legal. I think we need to have a fresh start from everything we've heard here.
 and look at what is the goals, what can we feasibly do, and what can we legally do. And I think we can bring something back to the council that would be legal, constitutional, and also something that you could argue would be in the best interest of the whole city of Fayetteville.
 I have thought about this, and it will require work, but that's what I'm here for. I'm happy to do it, and I want to work with the council in order to look at that and see what we can do and see what kind of progress we can make. Thank you, Kit. Mayor Jordan, is it possible to bring Sharon back up? I think she has something that she wanted to say. Okay. Okay.
 That's okay. You can bring up whoever you want to. What is the time? I just need a time. Sharon, do you think two minutes will be okay? Yes. Yes, I think so. How long? I'm sorry. Yes. Thank you so much. Two minutes? I slotted the memo from Kit. And normally what happens is, you know, when a layperson sees a legal thing like that, you say, oh, my God, I'm going to have to get a lawyer.
 Well, what I did instead, which I usually do, is I read. So I found it and I looked at it and I read as much of it as I could relative to what Kit put in the memo deeming this request illegal. And what I found was just below that, A, there's actually a B entry.
 And it says, however, a county, city, town, or other municipal corporation may obtain or appropriate money for a corporation, association, institution, or individual to finance economic development projects or provide economic development services. Underneath that are about 12 possibilities of opportunities that a city can take.
 to make something like this happen for our community. And so I have a real problem with us not getting a full story about what opportunities are and that's part of the reason we didn't even respond to that memo because we thought surely that kit would look again to see that there
 There's a half a page or more of explanation in the Arkansas Constitution about what you can do. I wouldn't steer you wrong, it's true, I'm not a lawyer and I did not start out asking Kit what's possible and I am, I have not done, I don't think I'm putting any of you in jeopardy, none of you in jeopardy, the city in jeopardy at all. It's just like in my estimation now,
 How can you say that you cannot support Juneteenth when it's a national holiday? Why is $6,000 to do something that's a part of celebration of Juneteenth considered a donation? It is not a donation. So I have a lot of reasons as far as I can tell you to feel that that is, the information that was provided to us was beyond incomplete.
 and it's more like obfuscation or something else. And 1910 white person living in this town is entrenched. You don't have to read the 1945 plan, master plan, to know what happens. There's a lot of history here. Thank you, that's all I have to say right now. Okay.
 All right. I guess I should point out, yes, there are a lot of things that are talked about under economic development. One thing that is not allowed is housing, which is what has been proposed here. So you have to look at this very carefully, as a lawyer would, and look and say, well, there's a whole bunch of things, so one of them must work. You've got to find the one that works. And the legislature, when they proposed this amendment to the Constitution, did not put in housing.
 That was, and then when the people passed it, housing wasn't in there. I know that because I've looked at, but when other times when we have been looking at trying to do something with housing and it's simply not within that constitutional amendment. And so I haven't tried to obfuscate anything. I have lived here most of my life. I have had good relationships with many people.
 I'm just telling you like it is that the Constitution says this will not work. The Constitution claims and says you cannot give, the Supreme Court has said you cannot give taxpayer dollars to corporations and individuals unless you're buying services from them or something like that. But not in a case like here where you buy houses and just give the houses. So that is generally not constitutional.
 That's all I got to say on that. All right. Holly, you were next and then I think it's Sarah and then Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. My original question was going to be to Kit about what kind of mechanisms we could use to do something like this within the parameters of the law and I think you answered that so I appreciate it. I do like the idea of preservation by rezoning. I think that's a good suggestion and my question would be how could we...
 look at defining an actual black historic district so that we could have a better idea of What we're talking about the specific areas the specific markers That might be a question for Jonathan about how to go about defining a district. I
 I don't think I would be the best person to speak to that specific to this instance. I know Britt Bostic is here as our long-range historic preservation planner and I know that of course Ms. Killian is here and she's done a voluminous amount of work identifying many of these properties. If it's a question of how districts are created.
 That's a much broader question and it's based around parameters that are adopted at the state level and the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program. But that's if you're wanting to achieve some sort of recognition at that level. That doesn't preclude some sort of local recognition instead. So I recognize that that doesn't fully answer your question, but I don't know that I have the full answer. Thank you. Why don't you come up and help us a little bit?
 I know you've been working on some of this a lot. Well, she's been working on it a lot.
 Thank you, Maren. Good evening, Council. I'm Britton Bostick, Long Range Planning, also Historic Preservation. And I really appreciate the opportunity to present to the Council in agenda session early in May, about a month ago, our Heritage and Historic Preservation Master Plan. And it may be helpful for me to begin by listing out some of the action items that are in the plan that should be coming to you all for your consideration in about a month.
 And we have action items, I think about five that speak specifically to what the council's discussion has included tonight. So one of those is to work with the Black Heritage Preservation Commission and our community to develop a list of threatened historical sites associated with black heritage and identify ways to support their preservation, including black ownership.
 It is hard to create a historic district of any type without knowing what structures would be included in that and having a good identification or inventory of what those structures would be. I will say that historic preservation is often focused on structures, although cultural landscapes as an aspect of historic preservation is certainly growing and a number of landscape architects kind of have a foot in both sides, historic preservation and landscape which creates these cultural landscapes.
 that are considered. The battlefield at Gettysburg is a great example of a cultural landscape with no buildings but a very important place in American history. So the next is ensure that Fayetteville's diverse histories, particularly black, Latino, Jewish women, and LGBT plus histories are documented in historic context development. And historic context development is just a very specific three word term that means when we look at proposing
 districts for the National Register of Historic Places that is the less exciting but very critical homework that we do before that and the council did approve funding for a historic context development for the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhood that will start this fall and so this would be very similar to that perhaps but focused on the Spouts Spring community and the historic
 It's kind of like a broader history that kind of captures what happened in that place over the time that we're able to identify. The third is support NWA black heritage in securing historical black sites. Consider assisting the organization with historic preservation activities and National Register of Historic Places designation if desired. And so that's a little bit broad because we don't have anything clearly defined at this moment, but should we have more clear definition?
 We're looking to see what it would like to preserve sites that are specific to black history in Fayetteville. And then also, again with our commissioners work with the Black Heritage Preservation Commission to identify potential projects that could be funded through grants like the National Park Service, African American Civil Rights grants, and underrepresented community grants and apply for the grants.
 Our plan does also speak to the fact that historic preservation is economic development. A firm called Place Economics did a study for the state of Arkansas that was published a few years ago and they captured the economic benefit of historic preservation. And so part of that identification of the value is in the grant funding that can be made available. Since 1971 the state of Arkansas has issued
 grant funding that's produced about $55 million in investment. We are a small part of that, and our consultants for this plan really encourage us to be a much larger part of that, and we're working toward it. And then finally, I'll highlight research historic preservation-related gentrification solutions in other cities to prepare Fayetteville for future threats.
 For example, legacy business program, adaptive reuse of historical buildings for affordable housing, et cetera. And I will mention that in surveying the community at the farmers market this past month, that was a very popular option that got a lot of votes. I'm happy to answer any additional questions the council might have. Okay. Let me. Thank you, Britton. I really appreciate that.
 So what? I just said thank you, Britton. I really appreciate that. All right. Now we have Sarah Moore next, and then I have Sarah Bunch. So do you have any questions for Britton? I just echoed thanks for the work on that. So I think that's going to be vitally important, the kind of conversations we're having through that. Okay. And give me just a second, Sarah. Do you have any questions for Britton? No, sir, I don't. Okay. Go ahead.
 So there was a comment made during public comment about there wasn't a lot of conversation with council. I think sometimes on these important topics in our community that do have a lot of weight to them.
 that it's really appropriate for us in leadership to sit and to listen to our community. And so I want to tell you that I wanted to give that respect to our community, and I appreciate the feedback that we were given today. Whenever we learn more, learn something new we don't know about before, we can do better. And so I appreciate the labor and the work that's been done to make sure that we are –
 addressing this in our community. And I do echo some of the things that were brought forward that, you know, there are obviously some hurdles with the way things are written today. However, how do we get to that guess? And I agree. Because this is an important investment in our community. This is an important part of our community.
 And so how do we get to that yes? And so I am definitely committed and want to encourage us to explore all of the possible avenues. And I think many have been brought up in the conversations today, things that we can explore, an economic opportunity is a really big one. And the legacy business program, I mean, seems like an avenue as well.
 But at the end of the day, you know, we're in the month to celebrate Juneteenth, so what an appropriate time to start this conversation. And I do think it is a start. And I think that we need to honor, you know, what this history has been. And so that's not done with a knee jerk. That's not done quickly. To truly honor it. And so I do think that this is a start.
 deserves its due time and diligence. And so I want us to really unfurl the historic preservation plan, black preservation plan. I want us to work with local organizations like the one that presented here today and other residents and to honor their voices in the solution. So I'm committed and want us to explore. I'm not sure what.
 the motions will be going forward if there is a way to amend or if the appropriate thing would be to table and Knowing that we want to have the most appropriate Legislation going forward to give appropriate direction to the mayor I'm going forward and all it I guess other council members weigh in maybe their thoughts as well But definitely want to explore what the appropriate Motioning would be to try to continue this conversation so we can move this forward. I
 okay well you could do a motion of table indefinitely and then allow some work uh to be done and explore the legal things that can be done and uh you know i'm certainly willing to to work on that and i think that there should be some stuff done in order to reserve some of the the most important historical black structures that we still have
 Fayetteville and and I think that probably can be done and I look forward to going and beginning to work on that and and getting with the ward one council members as long as you are ward one council members and whoever might be new because this is most of this is in ward one my ward
 and uh i think that i'd be happy to do with that and and certainly uh bring in you know other members of the community if that's what the council members wanted to do so a motion to table indefinitely would would not uh would not kill this unless nothing is done by december 31st and hopefully before then we would have something that would be
 both legal, constitutional, and still be effective for beginning this process. Okay. Sarah? Well, Kit, I'd just like to say I'll bet Sonia will continue to work on this even after she is no longer in Ward 1. That's my take on it. In theory, I like the idea of this. It speaks to me.
 But I have a lot of questions when I look at what was presented. And I really respect the fact that Sonya said, look, this was in its raw form when we sent it to Blake. So some of the things I'm concerned about, you know, are obviously, you know, who will determine who determines what property we purchase? You know, how will the property be used?
 You know, just basic things like that, but we don't have answers. And when it was brought up that, well, we gave money to Peace at Home, yes, but we knew exactly how that money was going to be used. It was all lined out. So we had a complete plan there that we were looking at. So I like the idea of working on this and including Britton Bostic
 the process, you know, and ID structures and stuff like that. Living in this area, you know, my whole life, I know there's a lot of this that is gone now. And I was just sitting here thinking about, you know, when we used to come through this area and stop at businesses and they're not there anymore. They're just, they're gone.
 So, I think it is important that we do preserve this history, but I also think it's very important that we go about it in the right way. And when the city attorney tells me this is unconstitutional, there's no way I'm going to vote for it tonight. But if we work on it and get it hashed out, maybe you got me then. And I think you probably will.
 Those are just my thoughts in their raw form. Okay. Thank you. Andra? Absolutely. Thank you for that. I think I have some form of proposal. This will involve, of course, Sharon and her role, the Black Preservation Commission and KITS office working together on something.
 Sharon has done this work. She's the subject matter expert, and I don't think we can have we can we we can Propose anything without her I mean without the work that she's done I feel as if that it and I don't the word Indefinitely and I think I know why you said that but however I believe that I would like to
 offer that proposal and Over in looking at the next three months I think that Sharon is and I don't think I'm being ambitious, but I do I'm familiar with the
 Sharon's work and the work of the Commission, and I do believe that they will be able to develop something that's going to be during the time period. And if it comes back and it's something that we don't like, then we can always make amendments. But I do think that this is, I don't want to run the risk of forgetting about it, and
 So that's why it's so important for me to put a timeline on it, and I do believe that the kit sharing and the preservation commission can work together on this, based on the
 information that sharon has presented based on the duties of the organization and based on what can what can be done legally and also bringing britain involved as well i do believe that that will create a comprehensive plan and i think that it will cover all of our bases i'm also going to ask the city council members to and i i mentioned this earlier to
 work on a plan or let's see what we can do to extend ourselves and be intentional and schedule some type of meeting to go do kind of like a tour, looking at what could be the black historic district and talking to the residents about what do you envision. Sharon, you said something that was so powerful and so profound and that was re-imagining.
 and i do believe that that will be that that should be a conversation between the residents and the city council an opportunity for us to listen and uh i know we've done a lot of tours we've gone on property but i do believe that this will this will give us a great perspective on again proximity and what can happen and hearing those stories and that will
 I think that will really influence what we should, how we should move forward. So Sharon, is that something that you would be open to? Sure. Yes, I think that you're right. A lot of that is in my head. You know, I have written a lot too. I, you know, I really approached you all to try to help us to stop the bleeding
 Because we are, I will just say that putting up a bunch of signs everywhere is not it. It really isn't it. And the buildings that we're talking about, we're not talking about getting a building to, and then leaving it as it is to say this is, you know, this is the history of our ramshackle existence here.
 we want to stop the bleeding so that there's land there so there are buildings there that that we can when we when we build a district that there's something to build with so that's why the urgency of this so thank you very much absolutely i just think that this is it's it's it's complex it's complex and when things are complex collaboration is key and um
 I just believe that this would really address a lot of the questions that we have when we're asking about what can we do? Well, in order to know that, we have to kind of know what actually, what really happened. And I think that Mayor Jordan, I don't know how we can go about doing this, but again, scheduling like the council members during like a tour and going into South Fayetteville, Britain can kind of, you know, describe, show us what happened.
 where to go and just kind of having like some type of of a tour or meeting or something so the council members can be able to lean in and really get a closer understanding a better understanding of what the com of what needs to happen sure
 sure mr mayor i know there's other people waiting but i forgot to add one thing when i was speaking before and i'm just going to go ahead i'm just going to go just going to jump right in here but deandre you know i know you don't like the idea of the indefinite you know tabling which gives you time and you know gives you six months basically for a little bit more than six months
 But what I was thinking and I forgot to mention was what if we had an update, you know, or something like that, you know, like you said you were hoping to have it done in three months. What if we have an update in two months or something, you know, if that would be possible. Now that's not my decision whether that's possible or not. That involves other people and that, you know, but if we could have an update and that would keep it on the front burner.
 mayor i have a suggestion can i ask can i ask britain to come back up she's going to bring something in another month or so i think it's what she's going to tell you but it's not everything
 Thank you for coming back up here. I wanted to ask you what kind of additional support you might need from the council to further the initiatives you will be bringing forward in the future so that we know what kind of opportunities we have available to further the progress so we know that a no vote or a tabling is not indefinite and it's not an indication that we're not going to bring something forward or make progress on this topic.
 So I'm glad to have the opportunity to speak with Ms. Killian and also with the Black Heritage Preservation Commission, Councilmember Jones and Harvey, kind of about how we could tie this plan implementation, should the council choose to adopt this plan, in with work in the community. I do believe that community-driven planning is really important. Planning has not always been driven by the community. I think Fayetteville has a great value for that today.
 And so I think I was anticipating bringing the plan forward to the council first for adoption. However, I will mention our historic district commission did not want to wait on some of the action items and has asked for some of those to be in process already. So I think for me it's a matter of what are there action items in this plan that the council would like to see implemented sooner rather than later.
 Are there partnering opportunities that could go along with that? It's just a matter of, you are talking to a planner, so it's just a matter of making a plan and implementing. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. As multiple people have acknowledged, this is a very emotional discussion. Myself as a white man, I'll never understand
 you know, what African Americans have gone through because I haven't walked in their shoes. But I can't acknowledge that. And I certainly acknowledge the hardships that, you know, they had, and they have. But at the end of the day, we as a city council, I feel, have to look at the legal ramifications of what we're doing. Whether we like it or we don't like it, we still have to respect the...
 Kitt's opinion he's been doing it for 20 years he knows the law inside and out we may not like the responses he gives us in some cases but we have to respect them and so I as a city council member I can't support something that the city council or the city attorney is so adamantly
 voicing that is unconstitutional. Not that he doesn't support the idea of what you are trying to do, but the way it's formatted, he's very adamant that it's unconstitutional. So me as a city council member, unfortunately I can't support it. It's not an example, as someone said, if we don't support it, we're turning our back on the African American community. That's not the case.
 This is a case of we have to look at the legality of it, and it's not legal in Kit's opinion. My suggestion, I acknowledge what you're saying, DeAndre, about three months. I would say this is such a complicated issue, it's gonna take longer than three months to kind of work through it, in my opinion, because there's multiple facets of it. I would, you know,
 think along the lines of the indefinite, give you a six month window with a, as Susan Sarah mentioned, having a follow-up, a check-in date to say, hey, this is the progress we've made. But I just don't think we're ready for what we're asking to do. Mayor Jordan, I would like to, if I can
 make a resolution that we establish a, I don't know if it would be, I guess we would call it a collaboration with Sharon and her organization, the Black Preservation Commission and KIT to address, I guess, creating a historic black district.
 And what was it? Don't forget about Britain. And Britain, yeah, of course, of course, of course. And Britain with city staff. And looking at exactly what's legal, how do we go about doing it, what we can do. And then I guess within three months present an update to the council. And then if there's anything that we would like to change, then we can go back to the drawing board or make amendments.
 Okay. Council Member Tarkes had her hand raised for a while. Oh, okay. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor, and I've appreciated the discussion. Just a couple of comments. Maybe they've been voiced in a different form.
 But I think this is not the beginning of the discussion. I think it's the continuance. I think we've been having a lot of discussions about this and I think it's really important and timely and probably actually long overdue. What I would suggest is that yes, Council Member Jones, we start looking towards creating a black historic district that could open up a lot of opportunities. I think it's clear from our discussion tonight, some of the goals
 on the table for the black historic group and our city in general. And my suggestion would be that you create a timeline and create a strategy
 And maybe in three months or maybe six months, you come back to the council or folks come back to the council where they've got that kind of laid out. Because I know that we would be really willing to support this work and advocate strongly for it, but right now,
 it's unconstitutional in its form. So I think we just need to keep moving forward and continuing the conversation. And I think this is much needed. So those are my comments. Thanks for bringing this forward tonight.
 Thank you, thank you, thank you. And absolutely, it goes back to what I was saying earlier. I think that collaboration, if we could start that process, and I think that they're all aware of the details and kind of lay the strategy based on, again, what we can do, what's legal, and what needs to be done.
 I would like to make that make a motion and I would also like again for the City Council members to if Britain could organize at some point a tour of that proposed area and kind of hearing from the residents and and Sharing based on the needs and what they would like to see Mike Thank You. Mr. Mayor. I think it behooves us to pursue a process of
 that the state will recognize, or Fayetteville gets in its own way
 creates its own process that doesn't mimic the state process for actually having a district be formally recognized and That we preclude ourselves from being eligible to compete for grants Because the city of Fayetteville is not going to want to pass up those kinds of opportunities to compete for state money as well as utilize Fayetteville dollars in the creation of a district and so while I think that
 Updates are absolutely appropriate. I think knowing planners and no slight on planners that Three months will really be tight for being able To not only outline the steps in the process But even comprehend the steps that are needed come back and request the resources Britain is not going to be able to handle this herself Miss Killian is not going to be able to handle this herself. I
 this is gonna require some resources to literally adopt as we would all want it to be formally adopted, codified and supported going forward. So I appreciate the idea of tabling and modifying
 I just don't want people to be disappointed if three months isn't enough time because it won't be enough time. I think we're talking about a multi-month process and as long as progress is being made I would be very pleased with that. Thank you.
 I was going to ask DeAndre, just as a friendly suggestion, I don't know that I'm comfortable with drafting a resolution, a brand new resolution at council. So I might suggest that you get with Kitt to come up with something about the district creation. I just think it's too far into the weeds to get completed tonight. I wasn't planning on, I thought I was just making the resolution to create
 I didn't know, that's what my suggestion was, but I feel as if, and I don't want to speak for other people, but I just don't think that it's unreasonable. I think that it's very important that we set a target date. And I think that of the concerns that we have, I think that we can always, we have a, I don't
 Commission and I'm on that Commission so in Britain works for the city, so we're constantly talking So if there are things that you would like to see that of course we can communicate that But my concern is this is so important to the community and Sharon has done this work That I do believe that it that we must if we're going to do this then it's very important that we
 develop some type of target, some target dates. Maybe it's not three months. Maybe I can, there could be a time that, you know, Sharon could tell me, hey, it's in two months. I don't know, but I do believe. And if the three months is a problem, then we'll take that out and we'll say indefinitely. And when they are ready to present, then of course, then they can. But I do believe, I just don't want to run the risk of us putting this out there and nothing happening.
 Well, I agree with you. And I think, well, I'll be honest with you, if you want my opinion, I think you do need a target date. Absolutely. I mean, just whatever the target date is, I think because it gets you a goal to work toward. Now, what I understood you were talking about was putting all these folks together to develop some sort of resolution that you were going to bring back. Did I miss that? That's exactly what I was meaning, some type of resolution with a strategy
 And I'm going to ask you all, Sharon and Britton, since you're here, I don't want to speak for you, but what do you think could be a reasonable amount of time, or can you answer that tonight? Please don't say next week. I think depending on what you want to see.
 Depending on what you want and that we're asking I a lot of the planning has already been done I think for the next step I was depending on my city to help me stop bleeding Situations so that I could present to you the next step I could present to you though actually a pretty big chunk of what we envision the possibility of
 of achievement to be able to go through. So this piece is not happening today. It's a good thing that I'm trying to get other folks to think about acquisition so that I don't have to depend on,
 you know, this to save us. So I guess two months, maybe, let's say three months, because I'm tired. Right, right, right, right. So let's do that. But I can, depending on what is required to get a resolution passed, to get the mayor to do things that I need him to do.
 to stop them bleeding, then you let me know what it is. It obviously isn't what I have done so far today in terms of telling you all and talking to my council members. It is something more or different. And I think that should be easy enough. If Kit will look for a way for it to work,
 Considering we're not trying to take lands and houses for ourselves to do anything with except for Redevelopment putting back into the community building wealth Building a place for people to come and see how wonderful Fayetteville is You know that should be fairly if Kit could come to us with something that says this is how the mayor can do what you asked him to do That would be great and if he has any questions about
 You know, what is it that you're asking it to do that's different? That'd be great. I want to be sure I got this straight now, DeAndre. You said you were going to put everybody together and you're going to develop a resolution, correct? In three months, right? Yes. Basically tabling this for three months and then... And then we'll see what we come up with in three months and then if you need longer,
 it'll take longer if you don't need as long as three months then then you can bring it back quicker and i wanted to hear from i'm sorry sharon and sonia which said too how do we get to say yes kit if kit can tell us how the mayor can say yes to something that is constitutional
 that would be great that's all we need and i think that's what deandre is saying it's exactly what i was saying yes everybody working together okay so maybe the city attorney's office can help us to get to that support we'll get there thank you and it was so important to hear from sharon because she's going to be working on this and so i wanted to ask her can you do this in three months i didn't want to assume anything so she told us that she can get it done in three months and if she can't then
 Then you'll look at it and decide something else. Absolutely. And you might get it done quick. You just never know. I know that's a lot for a resolution. Does all capture how it's supposed to be?
 I don't think we can write a resolution. Yeah, I think you just need to table this for three months. Table this one and then... And I would like your commitment that I'm working with the council members of that ward too. Absolutely, yes. Yes. So I'll just say we're just going to table this particular resolution for three months. Yes. Okay. Without all the extras there. We'll bring back either this one again or a new one or...
 So I make a motion that we table this particular resolution for three months. Second. Okay. I would ask for final comments, but I think we've almost said it all, haven't we? Sarah, did you have something? I was going to make the motion. I know, but you get your light on. Oh, sorry. That's okay. All right, Sarah. Well, we've made a motion. I'm just ready to go vote now. Oh, you just got your vote. No, I was going to say something, but now I'm ready to vote. Okay.
 No, I think it's a good, I think this is a good plan. And the mayor brought up a really good point, is if it's done early or it's changed, you write a new resolution. We just got to go to work on it. Bring something forward then. And we will. And it'll all work out, I think. I'm a little familiar with the South End. I've lived down there for 50 years. So I'm kind of like a kid. I've been around the South End myself. So this will be good. Okay.
 Alright. Karen, would you please call the roll? Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Yeah, here we go. Alright. Point of clarification.
 On the last conversation, I just wanted to see, did we schedule that we're going to do a tour? I just wanted to make sure that was in, that we are going to do a council tour. Do we need to put a timetable on that? Well, I don't think we put a timetable on it, but I don't have very far to go. In my kind of how I...
 wrap my head around what DeAndre is putting forward that would be part of our timeline okay just wanted to make sure and see you could say even the agenda session you can say we would like to take a tour of X amount of african-american thank you you know if we've worked out an entertainment district and we worked out a historical district we can work out an african-american history we can make this work all right let's see number four
 Mayor can we take a five minute break well I suppose we can thank you let's make it ten that sounds amazing ten minutes let's go ahead and get started again okay let's move on to number four
 An ordinance to amend 166.25 Commercial Office and Mixed-Use Design and Development Standards of the Unified Development Code clarified that crosses accessed between properties is required. Kit? Whereas subsection D2 driveways of section 166.25 Commercial Office and Mixed-Use Design and Development Standards
 currently states that quote, shared drives and cross access between properties shall be encouraged to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties, unquote. And whereas planning staff and the Planning Commission recommend approval of an amendment clarifying that cross access shall be required rather than encouraged.
 And whereas Section 156.03, which provides for variances to development, parking, and loading requirements, provide an opportunity for applicants to demonstrate why the requirement would result in an adverse safety impact or if the standard should not apply due to a unique situation.
 And whereas shared drives are separately addressed, it's greater detail in Section 166.08 Street Design and Access Management Standards and can be removed from Section 166.25. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal subsection D2 driveways of section 166.25 commercial office and mixed-use design and development standards and an actual replacement of section 166.25 D2 as follows, quote, subsection 2 cross access. Cross access shall be required to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties, unquote.
 Thank you Mayor and Councilmembers thank you for your consideration of this item. I also do UDC amendments sometimes in long-range planning. So the item tonight is for a cross-access requirements and how our code reads. I often come to you with what I call code cleanup items meaning that we're trying to get the code to align with our existing policies and make sure that things are consistent and this is one that's similar to that.
 So here I have on the slide an illustration of cross access and that essentially means usually a driveway or other means of getting across multiple properties. Think about your ability to cross a commercial property to get to a more convenient street
 to make a right-hand turn to go to a light for a left-hand turn rather than having to make a left-hand turn across a busy road. And so that's essentially what we're looking at. It's very closely tied to driveway spacing requirements and so the council does not see this very often but the
 Planning Commission does when they look at driveway locations for properties, when they look at variances for driveway requirements. Usually driveway spacing, the busier or higher volume a road is, the further apart driveways are and that's part of safety requirements. So this illustration is from the Federal Highway Administration showing what some of those are. So it's standards that are practiced at the national level, not only in the City
 Our current section of code, 166.25d2, reads site development and design standards and it starts with driveways. Shared drives and cross access, those two things that combine for access management between properties should be encouraged to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties. I will highlight shall be encouraged, that is the current text of the code. What staff and the planning commission are recommending is that
 We removed the reference to driveways and speak just about cross access and then also change the shall be encouraged to shall be required to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties. The current policy is to treat that as a requirement and so even though it says shall be encouraged, the practice for several years has been treated as requirement and that's something that's been pretty consistent.
 If those amendments were adopted, that you just saw all the strikethrough in, it would read site development and design standards cross-access. Cross-access shall be required to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties.
 We would not be abandoning the driveway requirement upon review of the code text with senior assistant city attorney Blake Pennington and also Jesse Masters, our development review manager. We found that this is already adequately addressed further up in the code in 166.08.
 Where it talks about when necessary curb cuts, meaning driveway locations along regional link street types shall be shared between two or more lots. That when necessary that comes into play when the driveway spacing just can't be accomplished because the properties are too narrow to have the driveways the sufficient distance apart.
 It is also a requirement for neighborhood links when necessary and again that is determined through kind of distance separation requirements. Curb cuts along neighborhood links shall be shared between two or more lots. So we believe that that is sufficiently covered in code for driveways which is why we are proposing to remove it from 166.
 There is a variance opportunity so people are not locked into a requirement that they cannot meet. And this is a variance request that the planning commission does review occasionally. And so if there is an undue hardship and the provisions of Chapter 166,
 are shown by the developer to cause undue hardship as they apply to this proposed development, including but not limited to financial, environmental, or regulatory, and that the situation is unique to the subject property, the Planning Commission may grant a variance on a temporary or permanent basis to the development from such properties.
 So it's a process that we already have in place that's been used and that gives people the opportunity to say why they wouldn't be able to meet it. And staff does support those variances when we can and when we think they're meeting the intent or can demonstrate why they're not able to meet it.
 So, back to what we were proposing, that the text would be changed to just speak to cross access instead of driveways and that cross access shall be required rather than shall be encouraged to adjacent developed and undeveloped properties. The Planning Commission recommended this to the Council with a vote of nine in favor. We have not received any public comment to this point, but I am happy to answer any questions the Council might have or provide more detail if helpful. Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Okay.
 Written on this. I'd like to thank the planning department for doing this Blake and I have been talking with them for months saying if you're interpreting shall be encouraged it shall be required and
 You need to get the code changed because this is supposed to be a decision by the city council And when it's encouraged that does not mean required even though that was what they were interpreting it to be And so now they've got it in front of the policymakers and I think Planning for doing that to clarify the code. In fact in our latest appeal that was one of the issues
 And so to avoid that issue in the future, the city council can use your policy discretion to say it shall be required, not just encouraged. Sorry if I missed it, Britton, but is cross-access like a general term? I think the general layperson wouldn't know what that means. How does that work?
 that's very fair there is a lot of jargon and in what this is so access management is kind of the at the top of the umbrella if you will access management meaning how we get into and out of commercial properties from the city right-of-way generally or it could be the state right-of-way the federal right-of-way for federal highways so it's how mostly vehicles move less of a concern about that for pedestrians and bicycles in how they get onto a site because they don't have some of the same constraints
 But access management and the way that we approach it today does have strong consideration for pedestrian and cyclist safety. And so when we think about trying to reduce the number of driveways and not stack them all together on very busy roads, we're also looking to reduce the possibilities for conflicts. And by conflicts, I mean automobile accidents generally. And so the cross access is the piece of it that is for vehicles to be able to drive across connected properties.
 to more safely get to a side street or a lower traffic street to make a series of turns, probably signal turns, signalized turns with a traffic light rather than think about a situation where you're on a driveway and you're maybe on one of our busiest roads and you're trying to make a left-hand turn across maybe two or three lanes of traffic.
 So this is trying to guide vehicles in a safer, fewer conflict route than it is to try to create more conflicts with heavier traffic volumes. So cross access is specifically the piece that gets vehicles across multiple properties for that safer generally route than just driveways everywhere.
 It's kind of, it's more than just the shared driveway situation. It's about kind of movement to get onto the street outside of, yeah. Movement from one business to another so you never have to get on the street. Right, gotcha. And that's one of its great benefits if you're actually going to more than one business on a strip mall or something. Right, right, which there's some really good ones. Like off of Joyce, there's a lot of really good, I gotcha, okay.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. Any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anybody who wants to speak on this? Okay.
 Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. What discussion would you all like to have, or what action would you like to take? I think this is a really good change, and I can think of all sorts of places in our city where, you know, if we had had something like this 50 years ago, College Avenue, parts of North College would not look the way that they do.
 And MLK might not be the way that it is. You know, it would be easier to get around. You've got people pulling out all over the place. So let's see, this is an ordinance. So we need to go to the, I move we go to the second reading. Second. Okay. I didn't know if you had a comment or not. Yeah, Andre. Okay. We have a motion to second. We go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 I'm sorry she left. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. In Ordinance to Amend Section 166.25 Commercial, Office, and Mixed-Use Design and Development Standards of the Unified Development Code to clarify that cross-access between properties is required. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading.
 Caravage, please call the roll. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Excuse me. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thorne? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. And in Ordinance to Amend Section 166.25, Commercial Office and Mixed-Use Design and Development Standards of Unified Development Code to clarify that cross-access between properties is required. Any final comments from council? Caravage, please. Thank you.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's move on to number five in ordinance to amend 130.23 false farm reduction of the federal codes
 simplify and clarify certain provisions and reduce some fees for service kit whereas on November 20 2027 20 72007 a long time ago the City Council enacted a false alarm reduction code section in an attempt to reduce the number of false alarms that our police department responds to and whereas the false alarm reduction code section has succeeded in reducing the number of false alarms or police responses by about 50% and
 And whereas the city of Fayetteville was sued, as was Hot Springs and Little Rock, by a law firm which sought class action status for an injunction against the false alarm reduction code section and significant damages and attorney's fees,
 And whereas Hot Springs settled and paid many thousands of dollars for damages and attorneys' fees, and whereas the City of Fayetteville refused to settle and defended our successful false alarm reduction code section and prevailed with our summary judgment motion, such that Washington County Circuit Court dismissed plaintiff's complaint and claims with prejudice. And whereas there are some minor changes that would make the false alarm reduction code section even simpler.
 clearer and fairer which the Fayetteville Police Department and the City Attorney's Office recommend to the City Council. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 130.23, False Alarm Reduction, subsection definitions, by repealing the definition of alarm administrator and enacting the following definition.
 Alarm administrator means an employee of the Fayetteville Police Department appointed or designated by the Chief of Police to administer control and review false alarm reduction efforts and administer provisions of this section. Section 2 that the City Council City of Fayetteville OX are hereby amend section 130.23 C permit required application transfer for transferability and false statements by repealing subsections 2 and 9 and
 appropriately renumbering the remaining sections section 3 at the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend section 130.23 F fees for services subsection 1 by reducing the fee for service amounts as follows the number of false alarms 1 no fee 2 no fee 3 $50 475 dollars 5 $100 and
 six one hundred twenty five dollars seven or more one hundred and fifty dollars section four that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amend section 130 point two three F two by repealing the second sentence and enacting a new second sentence as follows quote
 The $250 fee for operating an alarm system without proper registration shall be waived if the operator submits to the police department a proper and complete application for an alarm permit within 10 business days after notification for such violations.
 Section 5 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 130.23 and re-letters the remaining sections. Section 6 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 130.23 appeals 3a by removing the cost of an appeal by deleting the following phrase paying appeal fee of $25 and as well as repealing the last sentence.
 Section 7, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hear by men, Section 130.23 , by repealing it and enacting the following, Subsection , the false alarm panel shall be comprised of three Fayetteville citizens appointed by the Mayor to serve staggered three-year terms. Section 8, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hear by men, Section 130.23 ,
 by enacting a fifth reason that the false alarm panel may reduce or eliminate any fee for service assessed against the owner-operator as follows, quote, subsection 5E, other good and sufficient reason not to assess a fee for one or more false alarms, unquote.
 Good evening, Mayor, City Council. I'm Jamie Fields, representing Chief Mike Reynolds in your Fayetteville Police Department, and I think Kit has pretty much spelled out what we're asking for. And to use Britain's language, I'm here for code cleanup, and so I'm happy to answer any questions that you have. What questions do we have from the council on this? You know, Teresa's not there, is she? Okay. Okay.
 All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to speak on this? Okay. Yes, sir. Nobody with Zoom. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 It's on the first reading, so what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to have? I'll make a motion to spin a rule and move to the second reading. Second. We've got a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Vernon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 Moore yes Ledecker yes in your order to amend section 130.23 false alarm reduction of the Fayetteville code to simplify and clarify certain provisions and reduce some fees for service I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading Kerwin please call the roll Vernon yes Bunch yes Erdsberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes
 Moore yes, we dicker yes And your arms amend section 130 point two three false alarm reduction of the Fayetteville code to simplify and clarify certain Provisions and reduce some fees for service any final comments from the council here, which please call roll Arna. Yes Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Harvey yes, Jones. Yes
 More? Yes. We'd occur. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Number six, an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled BZD 2023-002 for approximately 4.49 acres located southeast of West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and South Smokehouse Trail in Ward 1, Kitts.
 be it ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby approves pzd-2023-2 as described in exhibits a b and c attached to the planning division's agenda memo which allows the development of 2.93 acres for residential units a half acre for parkland dedication and 1.07 acres for primarily natural preservation
 Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville is hereby amended to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This particular property is in Southwest Fayetteville in Ward 1. It is what you cannot see in this aerial here, but a piece of a much larger property that encompasses several parcels that abut MLK. Getting a little bit more specific, it includes just shy of four and a half acres southeast of where the intersection of MLK and Smokehouse Trail meet, which ultimately turns into Rupa as you go north if you're not familiar with Smokehouse Trail.
 The property is currently undeveloped, it's largely under canopy and while it is somewhat sloped it is not within the HHOD, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District, suggesting that it's soils that are fully appropriate for development without any sort of increased development review or construction standards.
 The property has its current unusual split zoning as a result of a 2018 proposal that intended to transition the property's development as you move away from MLK to the south. Obviously that did not come to fruition since the property is still undeveloped. There was a proposal at one point for a RV park, but again that did not come to fruition, which brings us to today.
 The request before council is for a residential plan zoning district. That includes three components which look a little bit squirrely here, but they do have intents to each one of them. The first one, which is the diagonal cross hatching, is planning area one, and that's intended to be where the development occurs. What's proposed are 25 cabins, smaller style structures, to be clustered around a lot of the more natural features on the property.
 This includes, again, some examples of what you can see here. Again, these are intended to be smaller footprint buildings so that they can be able to fit around the topography and then tree canopy on the site.
 Planning area two in the southwest corner is intended as parkland dedication. If you're not a mountain biker or don't follow the trail networks evolution in this area, what you can see here is the continuation of the Fayetteville Traverse Trail in blue coming down from Kessler to Centennial and a parallel trail which is flight training that runs alongside it, but also coats across the southwest corner of this property. So it could represent a very ideal addition to the city's park system.
 Finally, planning area three, which is the oddest shaped one, but it is the one most informed by the property's natural features, including a very large oak tree, which you can see is the circle there. That's intended to be untouched area. It will, as you can see on the site plan here, have places where an access driveway would cross it, but generally it's meant to be left untouched.
 Land use compatibility, staff does find this request to meet with the surrounding area. Although it was rezoned partially to a much higher intensity and density allowance in 2018, the southern portion is the complete opposite of that. It's a very low density residential agricultural designation. Between the balance of those two zoning districts is in staff's estimation an incremental allowance
 add some more housing on the property, but in an incremental manner that's a complementary of what is a generally rural part of Fayetteville. When it comes to long-range plans, staff's findings were a little bit more mixed. On the one hand, the future land use map does call this out as a city neighborhood area, which does suggest a strong intent that it should be developed with a higher intensity, higher density, more housing types, possible commercial allowances.
 That said, it may be that at this time, that's getting a little bit far ahead of where the city's actual, or where the property's attributes and amenities stand. And this is represented by the infill rating for the property. It is near, or does have an adequate fire response. Of course, Kessler's just over the hill from it. There is trail in the area.
 and that future land use map contribute to it, but otherwise an infill rating of four doesn't necessarily suggest that the entirety of the property would be appropriate for a higher level of development than perhaps what's being proposed.
 Some other considerations that staff had when looking at this are some unusual ones. There's been recent ownership changes in the area. If council recalls, there was a master street plan amendment on Smokehouse in particular. The ownership changes specifically include that parcel to the west where the trail system exists. That's part of the Northwest Arkansas Trailblazers land, which is ultimately intended to be given to the city as parkland.
 suggesting that it may never be developed more than just as trail. And then that master street plan amendment on Smokehouse Trail was meant to accommodate development on the southeast corner of that intersection, but also acknowledge that smokehouse is very much a rural street in nature and preserve the